risk factors 10 risk factors." arrangements with platform manufacturers we have entered into license agreements with sony, microsoft and nintendo to develop and publish software in north america, europe and australia. we are not required to obtain any licenses to develop titles for the pc. sony. under the terms of the license agreements that we have entered into, or will enter into, with sony computer entertainment, inc., sony granted us the right and license to develop, market, publish and distribute software titles for the ps3, ps2 and psp hardware platforms. the agreements require us to submit products to sony for approval and for us to make royalty payments to sony based on the number of units manufactured. in addition, products for the ps3, ps2 and psp are required to be manufactured by sony approved manufacturers. microsoft. under the terms of the license agreements that we have entered into with microsoft corporation and its affiliates, microsoft granted us the right and license to develop, market, publish and distribute software titles for the xbox 360 and xbox. the agreements require us to submit products to microsoft for approval and for us to make royalty payments to microsoft based on the number of units manufactured. in addition, products for the xbox 360 and xbox are required to be manufactured by microsoft approved manufacturers. we expect to launch grand theft auto iv on the xbox 360 and playstation 3 platforms in the second quarter of fiscal 2008. in addition, we expect that our rockstar subsidiary will offer exclusive episodic content for grand theft auto iv on xbox live&reg;, microsoft's online entertainment and gaming network. the digitally delivered episodic content will be available for purchase by xbox live subscribers, allowing them to expand their grand theft auto iv gameplay experience. nintendo. under the terms of the license agreements that we have entered into with nintendo co., ltd. and its affiliates, nintendo granted us the right and license to develop, market, publish and distribute software for nintendo's wii, gamecube, ds and gba. the agreements require us to submit products to nintendo for approval and for us to make royalty payments to nintendo based on the number of units manufactured. in addition, products for such platforms are required to be manufactured by nintendo approved manufacturers. manufacturing sony, nintendo and microsoft are the sole manufacturers, or control selection of manufacturers, of software products sold for use on their respective hardware platforms. we place a purchase order for the 6 manufacture of our products with sony, nintendo or microsoft utilizing our payment terms with the manufacturer and then send software code and a prototype of the product to the manufacturer, together with related artwork, user instructions, warranty information, brochures and packaging designs for approval, defect testing and manufacture. games are generally shipped within two weeks of receipt of our manufacturing order. production of pc software is performed by third party vendors in accordance with our specifications and includes cd-rom pressing, assembly of components, printing of packaging and user manuals and shipping of finished goods. we send software code and a prototype of a title, together with related artwork, user instructions, warranty information, brochures and packaging designs to the manufacturers. games are generally shipped within two weeks of receipt of our manufacturing order. we occasionally experience difficulties or delays in the manufacture of our titles; however such delays have not significantly harmed our business to date. we have not experienced material delays due to manufacturing defects. our software titles typically carry a 90-day limited warranty. sales we sell software titles to retail outlets in north america and europe through direct relationships with large retail customers and third party distributors. our customers in north america include leading mass merchandisers, such as wal-mart; specialty retailers, such as gamestop; video stores, such as blockbuster; electronics stores, such as best buy and circuit city; toy stores, such as toys "r" us; national and regional drug stores; and supermarket and discount store chains. our european customers include carrefour, dixons, karstadt, and media saturn. we have sales operations in australia, austria, canada, france, germany, italy, the netherlands, new zealand, spain, switzerland, the united kingdom and the united states. sales to our five largest customers in fiscal 2007 accounted for approximately 51.1% of our net revenue, with wal-mart, gamestop and best buy accounting for 15.1%, 12.8% and 11.5%, respectively, of our net revenue. no other customer accounted for more than 10.0% of our net revenue for the year ended october 31, 2007. marketing our marketing and promotional efforts are intended to maximize exposure and broaden distribution of our titles, promote brand name recognition, assist retailers and properly position, package and merchandise our titles. we market titles by: implementing public relations campaigns, using print and online advertising, television, radio spots and outdoor advertising. we believe that we label and market our products in accordance with the applicable principles and guidelines of the entertainment software rating board, or the esrb, an independent self-regulatory body that assigns ratings and enforces advertising guidelines for the interactive software industry. actively pursuing relationships with participants in the music and entertainment industries. we believe that the shared demographics between various media and some of the software titles marketed by our publishing labels provide excellent cross-promotional opportunities. we continue to work with popular recording artists to create sophisticated game soundtracks, enter into agreements to license high-profile names and likenesses, and make arrangements for co-branding opportunities. satisfying certain shelf life and sales requirements under our agreements with hardware manufacturers in order to qualify for sony's greatest hits programs and microsoft's platinum hits 7 program. in connection with these programs, we receive manufacturing discounts from sony and microsoft. similarly, nintendo has also established a player's choice program for the wii and gamecube. stimulating continued sales and maximizing profits by reducing the wholesale prices of our products to retailers at various times during the life of a product. price concessions may occur at any time in a product's life cycle, but typically occur three to nine months after a product's initial launch. in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, price concessions to retailers amounted to $68.1 million, $73.9 million and $30.4 million, respectively. in certain international markets, we provide volume rebates to stimulate continued product sales. we also employ various other marketing methods designed to promote consumer awareness, including in-store promotions and point-of-purchase displays, direct mail, co-operative advertising, as well as attendance at trade shows. we employ separate sales forces for our publishing and distribution operations. as of october 31, 2007, we had a sales and marketing staff of 229 people. our front-line products generally sell at retail prices ranging from $19.99 to $59.99 in north america. products that are designated sony's greatest hits (for both the playstation 2 and the psp) and microsoft's platinum hits (for xbox) generally sell for $19.99. we release sports titles at retail prices ranging from $19.99 to $59.99, and we position our value-priced product offerings at a retail price starting at $9.99. distribution we distribute our own titles as well as software, hardware and accessories developed by others in north america through our jack of all games subsidiary, consisting principally of newly released and popular software titles, budget and catalog software titles, and hardware for third party console, handheld and pc products. our jack of all games subsidiary maintains warehouse facilities and sales offices in ohio and ontario, canada. products arrive at our warehouses to be picked, packed and shipped to customers. we generally ship products by common carrier. backlog is not material to our business as we generally ship products within seven days after receipt of orders. we procure products from suppliers principally using standard purchase orders based on our assessment of market demand, as well as pre-orders from retailers. we periodically enter into agreements with our suppliers that provide exclusive distribution rights to certain products. we carry inventory quantities that we believe are necessary to provide rapid response to retailer orders. we utilize electronic data interchange with many of our retailers to enhance the efficiency of placing and shipping orders and receiving payments. competition in our publishing business, we compete with: other forms of entertainment such as motion pictures, television and audio, online computer programs and other forms of entertainment which may be less expensive or provide other advantages to consumers. companies that range in size and cost structure from very small with limited resources to very large companies with greater financial, marketing and technical personnel and other resources than ours, such as electronic arts, activision, thq, midway games and atari, and international companies, such as sega, vivendi, ubisoft, sci entertainment, capcom, konami and namco-bandai. sony, microsoft and nintendo, for licenses to properties and the sale of interactive entertainment software, each of which is a large developer and marketer of software for its own platforms. each of these competitors has the financial resources to withstand significant price competition and to implement extensive advertising campaigns. 8 other software, hardware and entertainment and media for limited retail shelf space and promotional resources. the competition is intense among an increasing number of newly introduced entertainment software titles and hardware for adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support. competition in the entertainment software industry is based on: product quality, features, innovation and playability; brand name recognition; compatibility with popular platforms; access to distribution channels; price; marketing; and customer service. our business is driven by hit titles, which require increasing budgets for development and marketing. competition for our titles is influenced by the timing of competitive product releases and the similarity of such products to our titles and may result in loss of shelf space or a reduction in sell-through of our titles at retail stores. in our distribution business, we compete with large national companies as well as smaller regional distributors. we also compete with the efforts of the major entertainment software companies that distribute directly to retailers or over the internet. some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, personnel and other resources than we do and are able to carry larger inventories, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and provide more comprehensive product selection than we can. international operations sales in international markets, principally in the united kingdom and other countries in europe, have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenue. for fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, approximately 31.3%, 39.4% and 39.8%, respectively, of our net revenue was earned outside the united states. we are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased credit risks, tariffs and duties, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, shipping delays and international political, regulatory and economic developments, all of which can have a significant impact on our operating results. see notes 1 and 14 to the consolidated financial statements. segment information see note 14 to the consolidated financial statements for more information regarding our reportable segments. employees as of october 31, 2007, we had approximately 1,900 full-time employees, of which approximately 877 were employed outside of the united states. none of our employees is subject to a collective bargaining agreement. we consider our relations with employees to be satisfactory. 9 item 1a. risk factors our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. because of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other factors affecting our operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance and our business and financial performance could be harmed and the market value of our securities could decline. we have experienced significant turnover in our board and executive management and have a new business development plan. during the second quarter of 2007, five new members and one incumbent director were elected to our board at our annual meeting. our board then elected a new chairman and a new chief executive officer, and also appointed one additional incumbent member and one additional new member to our board, for a total of eight board members. during the quarter we also engaged zelnickmedia, a media investment and management firm, to provide us with executive management services. the board and zelnickmedia reorganized our executive management team and our business in fiscal 2007. it is not yet possible to accurately assess how effective our new management team will be, whether it will be able to accomplish the objectives of our new business development plan or whether our business reorganization plan, if successful, will be of significant benefit to us and our financial performance. in addition, the success of our business plan depends in part on events and circumstances that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, consumer demand for our products and other factors affecting our industry. the changes that are part of our business reorganization may be disruptive to our business. we depend on our key management and product development personnel. our continued success will depend to a significant extent on our senior management team and our relationship with zelnickmedia. in 2007, we entered into an agreement with zelnickmedia whereby it has agreed to provide executive management services to us and our board through october 31, 2011. our chairman and our chief executive officer are partners of zelnickmedia. we are also highly dependent on the expertise, skills and knowledge of certain of our rockstar employees responsible for content creation and development of grand theft auto and other titles. although we have employment agreements with our key rockstar employees, we may not be able to continue to retain these personnel at current compensation levels, or at all. the compensation arrangements with these rockstar employees could result in increased expenses and have a negative impact on our operating results. the loss of the services of our executive officers, zelnickmedia or our key rockstar employees could significantly harm our business. in addition, if one or more key employees join a competitor or form a competing company, we may lose additional personnel, experience material interruptions in product development, delays in bringing products to market and difficulties in our relationships with licensors, suppliers and customers, which could significantly harm our business. failure to continue to attract and retain other qualified management and creative personnel could adversely affect our business and prospects. we are dependent on the future success of our grand theft auto products and we must continue to publish "hit" titles in order to compete successfully in our industry. grand theft auto and certain of our other titles are "hit" products and have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our revenue. if we fail to continue to develop and sell new commercially successful hit titles or experience any delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our "hit" titles, our revenue and profits may decrease substantially and we may incur losses. for the years ended october 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, our grand theft auto titles accounted for 13.1%, 22.4% and 38.2% of our net revenue, respectively, and our 10 best selling titles accounted for approximately 26.6%, 10 38.4% and 48.2% of our net revenue, respectively. in addition, competition in our industry is intense and a relatively small number of hit titles account for a large portion of total revenue in our industry. hit products offered by our competitors may take a larger share of consumer spending than we anticipate, which could cause revenue generated from our products and services to fall below our expectations. if our competitors develop more successful products or services at lower price points or based on payment models perceived as offering better value (such as pay-for-play or subscription-based models), or if we do not continue to develop consistently high quality and well-received products and services, our revenue and profitability will decline. our business is highly dependent on the success, timely release and availability of new video game platforms, as well as our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. we derive most of our revenue from the sale of products for play on video game platforms manufactured by third parties, such as sony's playstation 2, playstation 3 and psp and microsoft's xbox and xbox 360. the success of our business is dependent in large part upon the success and availability of an adequate supply of next-generation video game platforms and hardware systems, our ability to accurately predict which platforms will be successful in the marketplace, and our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. we must make product development decisions and commit significant resources well in advance of the anticipated introduction of a new platform. a new platform for which we are developing products may not succeed or may have a shorter life cycle than anticipated. alternatively, a platform for which we have not devoted significant resources could be more successful than we had initially anticipated, causing us to miss a meaningful revenue opportunity. if the platforms for which we are developing products do not attain wide market acceptance, our revenue will suffer, we may be unable to fully recover the investments we have made in developing our products, and our financial performance will be harmed. we expect the average price of our prior-generation software titles to continue to decline. the interactive entertainment software and hardware industry is characterized by the introduction of new and enhanced generations of products and evolving industry standards. consumer demand for software for prior-generation platforms has declined as newer and more advanced hardware platforms achieve market acceptance. as the gaming software industry transitions to next-generation platforms, we expect few, if any, prior-generation titles will be able to command premium prices and we expect that these titles will be subject to price reductions earlier in their product life cycles than we experienced in prior years. as a result, we have reduced prices for our prior-generation software titles and we expect to continue to reduce prices for such software titles, which will have a negative impact on our operating results. these changes may cause the value of our inventory to decline substantially or to become obsolete. the market for our titles is characterized by short product life cycles. delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our products may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. the market for video games is characterized by short product lives and frequent introductions of new products. new products may not achieve significant market acceptance or generate sufficient sales to permit us to recover development, manufacturing and marketing costs associated with these products. the life cycle of a title generally involves a relatively high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. because revenue associated with an initial product launch generally constitutes a high percentage of the total revenue associated with the life of a product, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of one or more new products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cause our operating results to be materially different from expectations. 11 our distribution business is dependent on suppliers to maintain an adequate supply of products to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis. our ability to obtain particular products in required quantities and to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis is important to the success of our distribution business. in most cases, we have no guaranteed price or delivery agreements with suppliers. our distribution business has experienced, and may in the future experience, significant supply shortages from time to time due to the inability of certain manufacturers to supply products, such as the newest generation of platforms, on a timely basis. further, manufacturers or publishers that currently distribute their products through us may decide to distribute, or to substantially increase their existing distribution, through other distributors, or directly to retailers. if we cannot obtain sufficient supplies of the products that we distribute, our net revenue will decline and we could incur losses. we may need to raise additional capital if we continue to incur losses. we incurred significant losses in the years ended october 31, 2007 and 2006, and we may continue to incur losses. if losses continue, we may be required to raise additional capital in order to fund our operations. we could seek to raise capital in a number of ways, including through the issuance of debt or equity, or through other financing arrangements. during the year ended october 31, 2007, we entered into a senior secured line of credit agreement, which requires us to make periodic interest or other debt service payments. if we were to borrow additional funds, it is likely that further debt service payments would be necessary. in addition, the terms of additional debt may impose significant restrictions on our ability to operate our business. if we seek financing through the sale of equity securities, our current stockholders will suffer dilution in their percentage ownership of common stock. we cannot be certain as to our ability to raise additional capital in the future or under what terms capital would be available. if we need to raise capital and are not successful in doing so, we will have to consider other options that may include, but are not limited to, a reduction in our expenditures for internal and external new product development, reductions in overhead expenses, and sales of intellectual property and other assets. these actions, should they become necessary, will likely result in a reduction in the size of our operations and could materially affect the prospects of our business. our involvement, and the involvement of some of our former executive officers in a wide variety of lawsuits, investigations and proceedings has had, and may in the future have, a material adverse effect on us. we and some of our former officers, directors and employees have been, and are subject to, a wide variety of lawsuits, investigations and proceedings, including the following: former officers. our former chairman and chief executive officer pled guilty to two felony counts relating to our historical stock option granting practices and the securities and exchange commission instituted a civil action against him. in addition, certain other former officers have been convicted of crimes relating to their conduct during their employment with us. stock option granting practices. in 2006, a special committee of our board of directors conducted an investigation into our historical stock option granting practices. the special committee determined that there were improprieties in the process of granting and documenting stock options and that incorrect measurement dates for some stock option grants had been used for financial reporting purposes. as a result, we recorded additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense and related tax effects with respect to some of our stock-based awards and restated certain previously filed financial information in our annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended october 31, 2006. several derivative complaints and a class action complaint have been filed in state and federal courts against some of our current and former directors and some of our former executive officers relating to our historical stock option granting practices. 12 ftc consent order. we have entered into an agreement with the staff of the federal trade commission containing a consent order that requires us to maintain a comprehensive system reasonably designed to ensure that all content in our electronic games is considered and reviewed in preparing submissions to a u.s. rating agency. we have also agreed to represent accurately the rating and content description for games we publish and to disclose to consumers the presence of any content relevant to the rating that was not disclosed to the rating authority. personal injury actions. we are named as a defendant in a number of personal injury and wrongful death actions. sec investigation. we have received a notice from the sec that it is conducting a formal investigation into certain stock option grants made by us. we have also received a "wells" notice informing us of the sec's intention to file charges and seek a civil monetary penalty in connection with this investigation. irs request for information. we have received a request for information from the internal revenue service relating to the granting and exercise of certain stock options and tax deductions taken by us with respect thereto. other inquiries and proceedings. we have received grand jury subpoenas issued by the district attorney of the county of new york and from certain state attorneys general relating to some of our products, our historical stock option granting practices, the termination of our former auditors and other matters. the investigations and charges against us or other current or former officers, directors or employees have imposed, and are likely to continue to impose, significant costs on us both financially and as a result of the distraction of our management team. while we are unable to estimate the exact nature or amount of these future costs, we believe they will likely include: damage to our reputation and business relationships; professional fees in connection with the conduct of the investigations and the defense of related litigations and other proceedings; potential damages, fines, penalties or settlement costs imposed on us; advancement of certain expenses and reimbursement of certain amounts payable by, or on behalf of, our current and former officers, directors and employees subject to the investigation or named in any litigations or other proceedings pursuant to our indemnification obligations; and potential impairment of our ability to obtain coverage and reimbursement under existing insurance policies, and a potentially negative impact on our future insurance coverage. potential impairment on our ability to raise capital, debt and equity our ability to acquire licenses to intellectual property, especially for sports titles, impacts our revenue and profitability. competition for these licenses may make them more expensive and increase our costs. many of our products are based on or incorporate intellectual property owned by others. for example, our 2k sports products include rights licensed from major sports leagues and players' associations. similarly, some of our other titles are based on key film and television licenses. competition for these licenses is intense. if we are unable to maintain these licenses or obtain additional licenses on reasonable economic terms or with significant commercial value, our revenue and profitability will decline significantly. competition for these licenses may also increase the advances, guarantees and royalties that we must pay to the licensor, which could significantly increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability. 13 our business is dependent on our ability to enter into successful software development arrangements with third parties. our success depends on our ability to continually identify and develop new titles on a timely basis. we rely on third party software developers for the development of some of our titles. quality third party developers are continually in high demand. software developers who have developed titles for us in the past may not be available to develop software for us in the future. due to the limited number of third party software developers and the limited control that we exercise over them, these developers may not be able to complete titles for us on a timely basis or within acceptable quality standards, if at all. we have entered into agreements with third parties to acquire the rights to publish and distribute interactive entertainment software as well as to use licensed intellectual properties in our titles. these agreements typically require us to make advance payments, pay royalties and satisfy other conditions. our advance payments may not be sufficient to permit developers to develop new software successfully, which could result in material delays and significantly increase our costs to bring particular products to market. software development costs, promotion and marketing expenses and royalties payable to software developers and third party licensors have increased significantly in recent years and reduce potential profits derived from sales of our software. future sales of our titles may not be sufficient to recover advances to software developers and licensors, and we may not have adequate financial and other resources to satisfy our contractual commitments to such developers. if we fail to satisfy our obligations under agreements with third party developers and licensors, the agreements may be terminated or modified in ways that are burdensome to us, and have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and operating results. we are subject to product development risks which could result in delays and additional costs, and we must adapt to changes in software technologies. we depend on third party software developers and our internal development studios to develop new interactive entertainment software within anticipated release schedules and cost projections. the development cycle for new titles ranges from 12 to 24 months. development times and costs of next-generation software have increased substantially as a result of the additional and enhanced features available in the newest games. after development of a product, it may take between nine to 12 additional months to develop the product for other hardware platforms. if developers experience financial difficulties, additional costs or unanticipated development delays, we will not be able to release titles according to our schedule and at budgeted costs. certain of our licensing and marketing agreements also contain provisions that would impose penalties if we fail to meet agreed upon software release dates. there can be no assurance that the products so developed will be sufficiently successful so that we can recoup these costs or make a profit on these products. additionally, in order to stay competitive, our internal development studios must anticipate and adapt to rapid technological changes affecting software development. any inability to respond to technological advances and implement new technologies could render our products obsolete or less marketable. the interactive entertainment software industry is highly competitive both for our publishing and distribution operations. we compete for both licenses to properties and the sale of interactive entertainment software with sony, microsoft and nintendo, each of which is a large developer and marketer of software for its own platforms. we also compete with domestic game publishers, such as electronic arts, activision, thq, midway games and atari and international publishers, such as sega, vivendi, ubisoft, sci entertainment, capcom, konami and namco-bandai. as our business is dependent upon our ability to develop hit titles, which require increasing budgets for development and marketing, the availability of significant financial resources has become a major competitive factor in developing and marketing software games. some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, personnel and other resources than we do and are able to finance larger budgets for development and marketing and make higher offers to licensors and developers 14 for commercially desirable properties. our titles also compete with other forms of entertainment, such as motion pictures, television and audio and video products featuring similar themes, online computer programs and other entertainment, which may be less expensive or provide other advantages to consumers. our distribution business also operates in a highly competitive environment. competition is based primarily on breadth, availability and quality of product lines; price; terms and conditions of sale; credit terms and availability; speed and accuracy of delivery; and effectiveness of sales and marketing programs. our competitors include regional, national and international distributors, as well as hardware manufacturers and software publishers. we may lose market share or be forced in the future to reduce our prices in response to our competitors. our distribution business has been adversely affected by lower sales volume of software titles, a decrease in average selling prices of interactive entertainment products as our industry transitions to next-generation technology and increased competition in the value software market. a number of software publishers who compete with us have developed and commercialized or are currently developing online games for use by consumers over the internet. if technological advances significantly increase the availability of online games and if consumer acceptance of online gaming grows substantially, it could result in a decline in our platform-based software sales and negatively impact sales of our products. increased competition for limited shelf space and promotional support from retailers could affect the success of our business and require us to incur greater expenses to market our titles. retailers have limited shelf space and promotional resources and competition is intense among newly introduced interactive entertainment software titles for adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support. competition for retail shelf space is expected to increase, which may require us to increase our marketing expenditures to maintain desirable sales levels of our titles. competitors with more extensive lines and more popular titles may have greater bargaining power with retailers. accordingly, we may not be able, or we may have to pay more than our competitors, to achieve similar levels of promotional support and shelf space. a limited number of customers account for a significant portion of our sales. the loss of a principal customer could seriously hurt our business. a substantial portion of our product sales are made to a limited number of customers. sales to our five largest customers accounted for approximately 51.1%, 49.4% and 40.7% of our net revenue, for the years ended october 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, with wal-mart, gamestop and best buy accounting for 15.1%, 12.8% and 11.5%, respectively, of such net revenue for the year ended october 31, 2007. our sales are made primarily pursuant to purchase orders without long-term agreements or other commitments, and our customers may terminate their relationship with us at any time. certain of our customers may decline to carry products containing mature content. the loss of our relationships with principal customers or a decline in sales to principal customers, including as a result of a product being rated "ao" (age 18 and over), could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. bankruptcies or consolidations of certain large retail customers could seriously hurt our business. returns of our products by our customers and price concessions granted to our customers may adversely affect our operating results. we are exposed to the risk of product returns and price concessions with respect to our customers. our distribution arrangements with customers generally do not give them the right to return titles to us or to cancel firm orders. however, we sometimes accept product returns from our distribution customers for stock balancing and negotiate accommodations to customers, which include credits and returns, when demand for specific products falls below expectations. we accept returns and grant price concessions in connection with our publishing arrangements and revenue is recognized after deducting estimated reserves 15 for returns and price concessions. while we believe that we can reliably estimate future returns and price concessions, if return rates and price concessions for our products exceed our reserves, our revenue could decline. we submit our products for rating by the entertainment software rating board in the united states and other voluntary or government ratings organizations in foreign countries. failure to obtain a target rating for certain of our products could negatively impact our ability to distribute and sell those games, as could the re-rating of a game for any reason. we voluntarily submit our game products to the esrb, a u.s.-based non-profit and independent ratings organization. the esrb system provides consumers with information about game content using a rating symbol that generally suggests the appropriate player age group and specific content descriptors, such as graphic violence, profanity or sexually explicit material. the esrb may impose significant penalties on game publishers for violations of its rules on rating or marketing a game, including revocation of a rating or monetary fines up to a million dollars. other countries require voluntary or government backed ratings as prerequisites for product sales in those countries. we believe that we comply with rating system requirements and properly display the designated rating symbols and content descriptions. in some instances, we may have to modify our products in order to market them under the target rating, which could delay or disrupt the release of our products. for example, during the fiscal year ended october 31, 2007, our release of manhunt 2 was denied a rating certification by the british board of film classification, the agency responsible for film and video game ratings in the united kingdom. that decision was recently overturned by the british video appeals committee, but the initial denial delayed the expected launch of manhunt 2. in addition, some of our titles may not be sold at all or without extensive edits in certain countries, such as germany. in the united states, we develop software titles that we intend to receive esrb ratings of "e" (age 6 and older), "e10+" (age 10 and older), "t" (age 13 and older) or "m" (age 17 and older). in addition to these ratings, the esrb may also rate a game as "ao" (age 18 and older). platform holders may not certify a game rated "ao" and retailers may refuse to sell "ao" games or games with controversial content. for instance, in 2007, some retailers reacted to the controversy over manhunt 2 by refusing to sell it or refusing to sell it in brick and mortar stores. in addition, some consumers have reacted to re-ratings or controversial game content by refusing to purchase such games, demanding refunds for games that they had already purchased, and refraining from buying other games published by us. we have implemented processes to comply with the requirements of the esrb and other ratings organizations. nonetheless, these processes are subject to human error, circumvention, overriding and reasonable resource constraints. if a video game we published were found to contain undisclosed pertinent content, the esrb could re-rate a game, retailers could refuse to sell it and demand that we accept the return of any unsold copies or returns from customers, and consumers could refuse to buy it or demand that we refund their money. this could have a material negative impact on our operating results and financial condition. in addition, we may be exposed to litigation, administrative fines and penalties and our reputation could be harmed, which could impact sales of other video games we sell. if any of these consequences were to occur, our business and financial performance could be significantly harmed. many of our rockstar titles and certain of our 2k games titles have been rated "m" by the esrb. if we are unable to obtain "m" ratings as a result of changes in the esrb's ratings standards or for other reasons, including the adoption of legislation in this area, our business and prospects could be negatively affected. if any of our games are re-rated by the esrb or other foreign based ratings organizations, we could be exposed to litigation, administrative fines and penalties and other potential liabilities, and our operating results and financial condition could be significantly impacted. 16 our business and products are subject to potential legislation. the adoption of such proposed legislation could limit the retail market for our products. several proposals have been made for federal legislation to regulate our industry, including a senate bill, referred to as the family entertainment protection act. this bill prohibits the sale of "m" rated, "ao" rated and "rating pending" products to under-17 audiences (while the esrb rating recommends an appropriate age group, there is currently no legal prohibition on any game sales). if the bill is enacted into law, it may limit the potential market for our "m" rated products, and adversely affect our operating results. other countries, such as germany, have adopted laws regulating content both in packaged games and those transmitted over the internet that are stricter than current united states laws. in the united states, proposals have also been made by numerous state legislators to regulate the sale of "m" or "ao" rated products and prohibit the sale of interactive entertainment software products containing certain types of violence or sexual materials to under 17 or 18 audiences. while such legislation to date has been successfully enjoined by industry and retail groups, the adoption into law of such legislation in federal and/or in state jurisdictions in which we do significant business could severely limit the retail market for our "m" rated titles. content policies adopted by retailers, consumer opposition and litigation could negatively impact sales of our products. retailers may decline to sell interactive entertainment software containing what they judge to be graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other content that they deem inappropriate for their businesses. if retailers decline to sell our products based upon their opinion that they contain objectionable themes, graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other objectionable content generally, or if any of our previously "m" rated series products are rated "ao," we might be required to significantly change or discontinue particular titles or series, which in the case of our best selling grand theft auto titles could seriously hurt our business. consumer advocacy groups have opposed sales of interactive entertainment software containing objectionable themes, violence or sexual material or other objectionable content by pressing for legislation in these areas and by engaging in public demonstrations and media campaigns. additionally, although lawsuits seeking damages for injuries allegedly suffered by third parties as a result of video games have been unsuccessful in the courts, claims of this kind have been asserted against us from time to time and may be asserted and be successful in the future. see "item 3. legal proceedings." we cannot publish our titles without the approval of hardware licensors that are also our competitors. we are required to obtain licenses from sony, microsoft and nintendo, which are also our competitors, to develop and publish titles for their respective hardware platforms. our existing platform licenses require that we obtain approval for the publication of new titles on a title-by-title basis. as a result, the number of titles we are able to publish for these hardware platforms, our ability to manage the timing of the release of these titles and, accordingly, our net revenue from titles for these hardware platforms, may be limited. if a licensor chooses not to renew or extend our license agreement at the end of its current term, or if a licensor were to terminate our license for any reason, we would be unable to publish additional titles for that licensor's platform. termination of any such agreements could seriously hurt our business and prospects. certain platform licensors have retained the right to change fee structures for online gameplay, and each licensor's ability to set royalty rates makes it difficult for us to forecast our costs. increased costs could negatively impact our operating margins. we may be unable to enter into license agreements for certain next-generation platforms on satisfactory terms or at all. failure to enter into any such agreement could also seriously hurt our business. 17 our quarterly operating results are highly seasonal and may fluctuate significantly, which could cause our stock price to decline. we have experienced and may continue to experience wide fluctuations in quarterly operating results. the interactive entertainment industry is highly seasonal, with sales typically higher during the fourth calendar quarter (our fourth and first fiscal quarters), due primarily to increased demand for games during the holiday buying season. our failure or inability to introduce products on a timely basis to meet seasonal fluctuations in demand could adversely affect our business and operating results. the uncertainties associated with software development, manufacturing lead times, production delays and the approval process for products by hardware manufacturers and other licensors make it difficult to predict the quarter in which our products will ship and therefore may cause us to fail to meet financial expectations. we may not be able to protect our proprietary rights or avoid claims that we infringe the proprietary rights of others. we develop proprietary software and have obtained the rights to publish and distribute software developed by third parties. we attempt to protect our software and production techniques under copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as well as through contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and distribution. our software is susceptible to piracy and unauthorized copying. unauthorized third parties may be able to copy or to reverse engineer our software to obtain and use programming or production techniques that we regard as proprietary. well organized piracy operations have also proliferated in recent years resulting in the ability to download pirated copies of our software over the internet. although we attempt to incorporate protective measures into our software, piracy of our products could negatively impact our future profitability. with advances in technology, game content and software graphics are expected to continue to become more realistic. as a result, we believe that interactive entertainment software will increasingly become the subject of claims that such software infringes the intellectual property rights of others. from time to time, we receive notices from third parties or are named in lawsuits by third parties alleging infringement of their proprietary rights. although we believe that our software and technologies and the software and technologies of third party developers and publishers with whom we have contractual relations do not and will not infringe or violate proprietary rights of others, it is possible that infringement of proprietary rights of others may occur. any claims of infringement, with or without merit, could be time consuming, costly and difficult to defend. moreover, intellectual property litigation or claims could require us to discontinue the distribution of products, obtain a license or redesign our products, which could result in additional substantial costs and material delays. our software is susceptible to errors, which can harm our financial results and reputation. the technological advancements of new hardware platforms result in the development of more complex software products. as software products become more complex, the risk of undetected errors in new products increases. if, despite testing, errors are found in new products or releases after shipments have been made, we could experience a loss of or delay in timely market acceptance, product returns, loss of revenue and damage to our reputation. gross margins relating to our distribution business have been historically narrow, which increases the impact of variations in costs on our operating results. as a result of intense price competition, our gross margins in our distribution business have historically been narrow and may continue to be narrow in the future. accordingly, slight variations in operating costs and expenses could result in losses in our distribution business from period to period. 18 we may not be able to adequately adjust our cost structure in a timely fashion in response to a sudden decrease in demand. a significant portion of our selling and general and administrative expense is attributable to expenses for personnel and facilities. in the event of a significant decline in revenue, we may not be able to dispose of facilities, reduce personnel or make other changes to our cost structure without disruption to our operations or without significant termination and exit costs. management may not be able to implement such actions in a timely manner, if at all, to offset an immediate shortfall in revenue and profit. moreover, reducing costs may impair our ability to produce and develop software titles at sufficient levels in the future. we are subject to risks and uncertainties of international trade, including fluctuations in the values of local foreign currencies against the dollar. sales in international markets, primarily in europe, have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenue. sales in international markets accounted for approximately 31.3%, 39.4% and 39.8%, respectively, of our net revenue for the years ended october 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. we are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased credit risks, tariffs and duties, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, shipping delays, and international political, regulatory and economic developments, all of which can have a significant impact on our operating results. all of our international sales are made in local currencies, which could fluctuate against the dollar. while we may use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to market risks in the ordinary course of our business, primarily risks associated with interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations. historically, fluctuations in interest rates have not had a significant impact on our operating results. we had an outstanding loan balance of $18.0 million under our credit agreement as of october 31, 2007. as of october 31, 2007, we had $10.0 million of letters of credit outstanding. under the credit agreement, the outstanding balance bears interest at our election of (a) 0.50% to 1.00% above a certain base rate (7.50% at october 31, 2007), or (b) 1.75% to 2.25% above the libor rate (weighted average rate of 7.62% at october 31, 2007), with the margin rate subject to the achievement of certain average liquidity levels. changes in market rates may impact our future interest expense. for instance, if the libor rate were to increase or decrease one percentage point (1.0%), our expected annual interest expense would change by approximately $0.2 million based on our outstanding balance as of october 31, 2007. in november 2007, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement with wells fargo foothill, inc. revolving loans under the new agreement bear interest at our election of (a) 1.00% to 1.25% above a certain base rate, or (b) 2.25% to 2.50% above the libor rate, with the margin rate subject to the achievement of certain average liquidity levels. we transact business in foreign currencies and are exposed to risks resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. accounts relating to foreign operations are translated into united states dollars using prevailing exchange rates at the relevant quarter end. translation adjustments are included as a separate component of stockholders' equity. for the year ended october 31, 2007, our foreign currency translation adjustment gain was approximately $28.0 million. the foreign exchange transaction gain recognized in our statement of operations for the year ended october 31, 2007 was $1.6 million. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskrisk factors 10 risk factors our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. because of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other factors affecting our operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance and our business and financial performance could be harmed and the market value of our securities could decline. we depend on our key management and product development personnel. our continued success will depend to a significant extent on our senior management team and our relationship with zelnickmedia. in 2008, we amended our existing management agreement with zelnickmedia whereby it has agreed to provide executive management services to us and our board through october 31, 2012. we entered into this amendment in order to secure management resources which we believe will allow us to grow our business and take advantage of opportunities in the interactive entertainment marketplace. our executive chairman, chief executive officer and an executive vice president are partners of zelnickmedia. we are also highly dependent on the expertise, skills and knowledge of certain of our rockstar employees responsible for content creation and development of our grand theft auto titles and titles based on other brands. although we entered into new long-term employment agreements with members of the creative team of our rockstar games publishing label, we may not be able to continue to retain these personnel at current compensation levels, or at all. the loss of the services of our executive officers, zelnickmedia or our key rockstar employees could significantly harm our business. in addition, if one or more key employees join a competitor or form a competing company, we may lose additional personnel, experience material interruptions in product development, delays in bringing products to market and difficulties in our relationships with licensors, suppliers and customers, which could significantly harm our business. failure to continue to attract and retain other qualified management and creative personnel could adversely affect our business and prospects. we are dependent on the future success of our grand theft auto products and we must continue to publish "hit" titles or sequels to such "hit" titles in order to compete successfully in our industry. grand theft auto and certain of our other titles are "hit" products and have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our revenue. if we fail to continue to develop and sell new commercially successful "hit" titles or sequels to such "hit" titles or experience any delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our "hit" titles or their sequels, our revenue and profits may decrease substantially and we may incur losses. for the years ended october 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, our grand theft auto titles accounted for 46.2%, 13.1% and 22.4% of our net revenue, respectively, and our 10 best selling titles accounted for approximately 64.2%, 26.6% and 38.4% of our net revenue, respectively. in addition, competition in our industry is intense and a relatively small number of hit titles account for a large portion of total revenue in our industry. hit products offered by our competitors may take a larger share of consumer spending than we anticipate, which could cause revenue generated from our products to fall below our expectations. if our competitors develop more successful products or services at lower price points or based on payment models perceived as offering better value (such as pay-for-play or subscription-based models), or if we do not continue to develop consistently high quality and well-received products and services, our revenue and profitability may decline. we may not fully realize the anticipated benefits resulting from the recently completed reorganization of our executive management team and our business. during the second quarter of 2007, five new members and one incumbent director were elected to our board at our annual meeting. our board then elected a new chairman and a new chief executive officer, and also appointed one additional incumbent member and one additional new member to our board, for a 10 total of eight board members. during that quarter we also engaged zelnickmedia, a media investment and management firm, to provide us with executive management services. the board and zelnickmedia initiated a reorganization of our executive management team and our business in fiscal 2007. while we substantially completed the reorganization in the past fiscal year, it is not yet possible to assess completely how effective our new management team will be, whether it will be able to accomplish the objectives of our new business development plan or whether our business reorganization plan will be of significant benefit to us and our financial performance. in addition, the success of our business plan depends in part on events and circumstances that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, consumer demand for our products and other factors affecting our industry. our business is highly dependent on the continued growth of current generation video game platforms and our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. we derive most of our revenue from the sale of products for play on video game platforms manufactured by third parties, such as sony's playstation 3, playstation 2 and psp, microsoft's xbox 360 and nintendo's wii and ds. the success of our business is dependent upon the continued growth of these platforms and our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. if the average price of our prior generation software titles continues to decline or if we are unable to sustain launch pricing on current generation titles, our operating results may suffer. the interactive entertainment software and hardware industry is characterized by the introduction of new and enhanced generations of products and evolving industry standards. consumer demand for software for prior generation platforms has declined as newer and more advanced hardware platforms achieve market acceptance. as the gaming software industry continues to transition to current generation platforms, we expect prior generation titles will not be able to command premium prices and we expect that these titles will be subject to price reductions earlier in their product life cycles than we experienced in prior years. as a result, we have reduced prices for our prior generation software titles and we expect to continue to reduce prices for such software titles, which will have a negative impact on our operating results. these changes may cause the value of our inventory to decline substantially or to become obsolete. current generation titles for the ps3, xbox 360, and wii have been offered at premium retail prices since the launch of such consoles. we expect to continue to price current generation titles at a premium level. however, circumstances may arise in which we may need to reduce prices for such titles. for example, the recent economic turmoil may reduce consumer demand and require us to reduce prices on our current generation titles. if we are unable to sustain launch pricing on these current generation titles, it will have a material adverse effect on our margins, profitability and results of operations. the market for our titles is characterized by short product life cycles. the inability of our products to achieve significant market acceptance, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our products may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. the market for video games is characterized by short product lives and frequent introductions of new products. new products may not achieve significant market acceptance, generate sufficient sales or be introduced in a timely manner to permit us to recover development, manufacturing and marketing costs associated with these products. the life cycle of a title generally involves a relatively high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. because revenue associated with an initial product launch generally constitutes a high percentage of the total revenue associated with the life of a product, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of one or more new products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cause our operating results to be materially different from expectations. 11 our distribution business is dependent on suppliers to maintain an adequate supply of products to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis. our ability to obtain particular products in required quantities and to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis is important to the success of our distribution business. in most cases, we have no guaranteed price or delivery agreements with suppliers. our distribution business has experienced, and may in the future experience, significant supply shortages from time to time due to the inability of certain manufacturers to supply products, such as the newest generation of platforms, on a timely basis. further, manufacturers or publishers that currently distribute their products through us may decide to distribute, or to substantially increase their existing distribution, through other distributors, or directly to retailers. if we cannot obtain sufficient supplies of the products that we distribute, our net revenue could decline and we could incur losses. we rely on a primary distribution service provider for a significant portion of our products and the failure of this service provider to perform as expected could materially harm our results of operations. in september 2008, we entered into a distribution services agreement with ditan distribution llc, under which ditan assumed responsibility for the shipping, receiving, warehouse management and related functions for our united states publishing and distribution businesses. we sell our products to our customers in the united states primarily through this distribution services agreement with ditan. our future performance will depend, in part, on ditan's ability to successfully distribute our products. if ditan does not perform adequately, or if we lose ditan as our distributor and are unable to obtain a satisfactory replacement in a timely manner, our sales and results of operations could suffer. we may need to raise additional capital if we incur losses. although we achieved profitability for the year ended october 31, 2008, we have incurred significant losses in the past. if we incur losses in the future, we may be required to raise additional capital in order to fund our operations. we could seek to raise capital in a number of ways, including through the issuance of debt or equity, or through other financing arrangements. during the year ended october 31, 2007, we entered into a senior secured line of credit agreement (and expanded the line of credit in november 2007), which requires us to make periodic interest or other debt service payments. if we borrow additional funds, further debt service payments would probably be necessary. in addition, the terms of additional debt may impose significant restrictions on our ability to operate our business. if we seek financing through the sale of equity securities, our current stockholders will suffer dilution in their percentage ownership of common stock. we cannot be certain as to our ability to raise additional capital in the future or under what terms capital would be available, particularly in light of the recent economic turmoil which has, among other consequences, led to the depression of stock prices and the tightening of credit. if we need to raise capital and are not successful in doing so, we will have to consider other options that may include, but are not limited to, a reduction in our expenditures for internal and external new product development, reductions in overhead expenses, and sales of intellectual property and other assets. these actions, should they become necessary, will likely result in a reduction in the size of our operations and could materially affect the prospects of our business. our ability to raise additional capital may be limited. recent disruptions in financial markets have resulted in a severe tightening of credit availability in the united states. liquidity in credit markets has contracted significantly, making terms for certain financings less attractive. ongoing turmoil in the credit markets may make it difficult for us to obtain financing, on acceptable terms or at all, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other investments. these difficulties could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. our credit agreement limits our ability to take various actions, including incurring additional debt, paying dividends, repurchasing shares and acquiring or disposing of assets or businesses. in addition, we have 12 granted a security interest in connection with certain compensatory arrangements which limits our ability to incur senior debt in excess of certain amounts. accordingly, we may be restricted from taking actions that management believes would be desirable and in the best interests of us and our stockholders. our credit agreement also requires us to satisfy specified financial and non-financial covenants. a breach of any of the covenants contained in our credit agreement could result in an event of default under the agreement and allow our lenders to pursue various remedies, including accelerating the repayment of any indebtedness outstanding under the agreement. our involvement, and the involvement of some of our former executive officers in a wide variety of lawsuits, investigations and proceedings has had, and may in the future have, a material adverse effect on us. we and some of our former officers, directors and employees have been, and are subject to, a wide variety of lawsuits, investigations and proceedings, including the following: former officers. our former chairman and chief executive officer pled guilty to two felony counts relating to our historical stock option granting practices and the securities and exchange commission ("sec") instituted a civil action against him. in addition, certain other former officers have been convicted of crimes relating to their conduct during their employment with us. stock option granting practices. in 2006, a special committee of our board of directors conducted an investigation into our historical stock option granting practices. the special committee determined that there were improprieties in the process of granting and documenting stock options and that incorrect measurement dates for some stock option grants had been used for financial reporting purposes. as a result, we recorded additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense and related tax effects with respect to some of our stock-based awards and restated certain previously filed financial information in our annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended october 31, 2006. several derivative complaints and a class action complaint have been filed in state and federal courts against some of our current and former directors and some of our former executive officers relating to our historical stock option granting practices. ftc consent order. we have entered into an agreement with the staff of the federal trade commission that contains a consent order requiring us to maintain a comprehensive system reasonably designed to ensure that all content in our electronic games is considered and reviewed in preparing submissions to a u.s. rating agency. we have also agreed to represent accurately the rating and content descriptors for games we publish and to disclose to consumers the presence of any content relevant to the rating that was not disclosed to the rating authority. personal injury actions. we are named as a defendant in a personal injury and wrongful death action. sec investigation. we have received a notice from the sec that it is conducting a formal investigation into our historical stock option granting practices. we have also received a "wells" notice informing us of the sec's intention to file charges against us and seek a civil monetary penalty in connection with this investigation. irs request for information. we have received requests for information from the internal revenue service relating to the granting and exercise of certain stock options and tax deductions taken by us with respect thereto. electronic arts inc.'s tender offer. stockholder lawsuits have been filed against us in the court of chancery of the state of delaware and new york state court contending that our directors breached their fiduciary duties by, among other things, allegedly refusing to explore premium offers by electronic arts inc. ("ea") to acquire all of the company's shares, enacting a bylaw amendment allegedly designed to entrench the current board by preventing stockholders from nominating and electing alternative directors, agreeing to an amendment to a management agreement with zelnickmedia, issuing a proxy statement for the 2008 annual meeting of stockholders that allegedly contained misleading and incomplete information 13 and adopting a "poison pill". other lawsuits may continue to be filed against us and our directors with similar or additional allegations relating to our 2008 annual meeting of stockholders and the proxy materials filed with the sec and mailed to stockholders in connection therewith, the amendment to the zelnickmedia management agreement, ea's unsolicited tender offer and/or its expiration, our adoption of a "poison pill," or our review of strategic alternatives. other inquiries and proceedings. we have received grand jury subpoenas issued by the district attorney of the county of new york and from certain state attorneys general relating to some of our products, our historical stock option granting practices, the termination of our former auditors and other matters. the investigations and charges against us or other current or former officers, directors or employees have imposed, and are likely to continue to impose, significant costs on us financially. while we are unable to estimate the exact nature or amount of these future costs, we believe they will likely include: damage to our reputation and business relationships; professional fees in connection with the conduct of the investigations and the defense of related litigations and other proceedings; potential damages, fines, penalties or settlement costs imposed on us; advancement of certain expenses and reimbursement of certain amounts payable by, or on behalf of, our current and former officers, directors and employees subject to the investigation or named in any litigations or other proceedings pursuant to our indemnification obligations; potential impairment of our ability to obtain coverage and reimbursement under existing insurance policies, and a potentially negative impact on our future insurance coverage; and potential impairment in our ability to raise capital. even if resolved favorably, such litigation or investigations could continue to be time consuming and could continue to result in the diversion of the time and attention of our management team, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. moreover, there can be no assurance as to the reaction of our employees, stockholders, publishers, developers, customers, distributors, licensors and other business partners to the institution or ultimate resolution of any such proceedings. if we acquire or invest in other businesses, intellectual properties or other assets, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for such transactions. if appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may acquire or make investments in businesses, intellectual properties and other assets that we believe are strategic. we may not be able to identify, negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment successfully. even if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a business, intellectual property or other asset, such acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including: retaining key employees and maintaining the key business and customer relationships of the businesses we acquire; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from an acquired company or business into our organization; the possibility that the combined company would not achieve the expected benefits, including any anticipated operating and product synergies, of the acquisition as quickly as anticipated or that the costs of, or operational difficulties arising from, an acquisition would be greater than anticipated; 14 significant acquisition-related accounting adjustments, particularly relating to an acquired company's deferred revenue, that may cause reported revenue and profits of the combined company to be lower than the sum of their stand-alone revenue and profits; significant accounting charges resulting from the completion and integration of a sizeable acquisition and increased capital expenditures, including potential impairment charges incurred to write down the carrying amount of intangible assets generated as a result of an acquisition; the possibility that we will not discover important facts during due diligence that could have a material adverse impact on the value of the businesses we acquire, including the possibility that a change of control of a company we acquire triggers a termination of contractual or intellectual property rights important to the operation of its business; the need to integrate an acquired company's accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management and timely reporting, and the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company in an acquired company that, prior to the acquisition, lacked these controls, procedures and policies; litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risks as a result of, an acquisition, including claims from terminated employees, customers or other third parties; and to the extent that we engage in strategic transactions outside of the united states, we face additional risks, including risks related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. future acquisitions and investments could also involve the issuance of our equity and equity-linked securities (potentially diluting our existing stockholders), the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, write-offs of goodwill, intangibles, or acquired in-process technology, or other increased cash and non-cash expenses such as stock-based compensation. any of the foregoing factors could harm our financial condition or prevent us from achieving improvements in our financial condition and operating performance that could have otherwise been achieved by us on a stand-alone basis. our stockholders may not have the opportunity to review, vote on or evaluate future acquisitions or investments. our ability to acquire licenses to intellectual property, especially for sports titles, impacts our revenue and profitability. competition for these licenses may make them more expensive and increase our costs. many of our products are based on or incorporate intellectual property owned by others. for example, our 2k sports products include rights licensed from major sports leagues and players' associations. similarly, some of our other titles are based on licenses of popular entertainment products. competition for these licenses is intense. if we are unable to maintain these licenses or obtain additional licenses on reasonable economic terms or with significant commercial value, our revenue and profitability could decline significantly. competition for these licenses may also increase the advances, guarantees and royalties that we must pay to the licensor, which could significantly increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability. in addition, on certain intellectual property licenses, we are subject to guaranteed minimum payments, royalties or standards of performance. if such licensed products do not generate revenues in excess of such minimum guarantees, our profitability will be adversely impacted. our business is dependent on our ability to enter into successful software development arrangements with third parties. our success depends on our ability to continually identify and develop new titles on a timely basis. we rely on third party software developers for the development of some of our titles. quality third party developers are continually in high demand. software developers who have developed titles for us in the 15 past may not be available to develop software for us in the future. due to the limited number of third party software developers and the limited control that we exercise over them, these developers may not be able to complete titles for us on a timely basis or within acceptable quality standards, if at all. we have entered into agreements with third parties to acquire the rights to publish and distribute interactive entertainment software as well as to use licensed intellectual properties in our titles. these agreements typically require us to make advance payments, pay royalties and satisfy other conditions. our advance payments may not be sufficient to permit developers to develop new software successfully, which could result in material delays and significantly increase our costs to bring particular products to market. software development costs, promotion and marketing expenses and royalties payable to software developers and third party licensors have increased significantly in recent years and reduce potential profits derived from sales of our software. future sales of our titles may not be sufficient to recover advances to software developers and licensors, and we may not have adequate financial and other resources to satisfy our contractual commitments to such developers. if we fail to satisfy our obligations under agreements with third party developers and licensors, the agreements may be terminated or modified in ways that are burdensome to us, and have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and operating results. we are subject to product development risks which could result in delays and additional costs, and we must adapt to changes in software technologies. we depend on third party software developers and our internal development studios to develop new interactive entertainment software within anticipated release schedules and cost projections. the development cycle for new titles generally ranges from 12 to more than 24 months. development times and costs of current generation software have increased substantially as a result of the additional and enhanced features available in the newest games. after development of a product, it may take between 9 to 12 additional months to develop the product for other hardware platforms. if developers experience financial difficulties, additional costs or unanticipated development delays, we will not be able to release titles according to our schedule and at budgeted costs. certain of our licensing and marketing agreements also contain provisions that would impose penalties if we fail to meet agreed upon game release dates. there can be no assurance that the products so developed will be sufficiently successful so that we can recoup these costs or make a profit on these products. additionally, in order to stay competitive, our internal development studios must anticipate and adapt to rapid technological changes affecting software development. any inability to respond to technological advances and implement new technologies could render our products obsolete or less marketable. the interactive entertainment software industry is highly competitive both for our publishing and distribution operations. we compete for both licenses to properties and the sale of interactive entertainment software with sony, microsoft and nintendo, each of which is a large developer and marketer of software for its own platforms. we also compete with domestic game publishers, such as electronic arts, activision blizzard, thq and midway games and international publishers, such as capcom, eidos, konami, namco-bandai, sega and ubisoft. as our business is dependent upon our ability to develop hit titles, which require increasing budgets for development and marketing, the availability of significant financial resources has become a major competitive factor in developing and marketing software games. some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, personnel and other resources than we do and are able to finance larger budgets for development and marketing and make higher offers to licensors and developers for commercially desirable properties. our titles also compete with other forms of entertainment, such as motion pictures, television and audio and video products featuring similar themes, online computer programs and other entertainment, which may be less expensive or provide other advantages to consumers. our distribution business also operates in a highly competitive environment. competition is based primarily on breadth, availability and quality of product lines; price; terms and conditions of sale; credit terms and availability; speed and accuracy of delivery; and effectiveness of sales and marketing programs. 16 our competitors include regional, national and international distributors, as well as hardware manufacturers and software publishers. we may lose market share or be forced in the future to reduce our prices in response to our competitors. our distribution business has been adversely affected by lower sales volume of software titles, the availability of certain hardware products, a decrease in average selling prices of interactive entertainment products as our industry transitions to current generation technology and increased competition in the value software market. a number of software publishers who compete with us have developed and commercialized or are currently developing online games for use by consumers over the internet. if technological advances significantly increase the availability of online games and if consumer acceptance of online gaming grows substantially, it could result in a decline in our platform-based software sales and negatively impact sales of our products. increased competition for limited shelf space and promotional support from retailers could affect the success of our business and require us to incur greater expenses to market our titles. retailers have limited shelf space and promotional resources and competition is intense among newly introduced interactive entertainment software titles for adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support. competition for retail shelf space is expected to increase, which may require us to increase our marketing expenditures to maintain desirable sales levels of our titles. competitors with more extensive lines and more popular titles may have greater bargaining power with retailers. accordingly, we may not be able, or we may have to pay more than our competitors, to achieve similar levels of promotional support and shelf space. a limited number of customers account for a significant portion of our sales. the loss of a principal customer could seriously hurt our business. a substantial portion of our product sales are made to a limited number of customers. sales to our five largest customers accounted for approximately 40.2%, 51.1% and 49.4% of our net revenue for the years ended october 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, with gamestop accounting for 13.1% of net revenue for the year ended october 31, 2008. our sales are made primarily pursuant to purchase orders without long-term agreements or other commitments, and our customers may terminate their relationship with us at any time. certain of our customers may decline to carry products containing mature content. the loss of our relationships with principal customers or a decline in sales to principal customers, including as a result of a product being rated "ao" (age 18 and over), could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. furthermore, our customers may also be placed into bankruptcy, become insolvent or be liquidated due to the recent turmoil in the economy, the global contraction of credit or for other factors. bankruptcies or consolidations of certain large retail customers could seriously hurt our business, including as a result of uncollectible accounts receivable from such customers and the concentration of purchasing power among remaining large retailers. returns of our products by our customers and price concessions granted to our customers may adversely affect our operating results. we are exposed to the risk of product returns and price concessions with respect to our customers. our distribution arrangements with customers generally do not give them the right to return titles to us or to cancel firm orders. however, we sometimes accept product returns from our distribution customers for stock balancing and negotiate accommodations to customers, which include credits and returns, when demand for specific products falls below expectations. we accept returns and grant price concessions in connection with our publishing arrangements and revenue is recognized after deducting estimated reserves for returns and price concessions. while we believe that we can reliably estimate future returns and price concessions, if return rates and price concessions for our products exceed our reserves, our revenue could decline. 17 we submit our products for rating by the entertainment software rating board ("esrb") in the united states and other voluntary or government ratings organizations in foreign countries. failure to obtain a target rating for certain of our products could negatively impact our ability to distribute and sell those games, as could the re-rating of a game for any reason. we voluntarily submit our game products to the esrb, a u.s.-based non-profit and independent ratings organization. the esrb system provides consumers with information about game content using a rating symbol that generally suggests the appropriate player age group and specific content descriptors, such as graphic violence, profanity or sexually explicit material. the esrb may impose significant penalties on game publishers for violations of its rules related to rating or marketing games, including revocation of a rating or monetary fines up to $1 million. other countries require voluntary or government backed ratings as prerequisites for product sales in those countries. we believe that we comply with rating system requirements and properly display the designated rating symbols and content descriptions. in some instances, we may have to modify our products in order to market them under the target rating, which could delay or disrupt the release of our products. in addition, some of our titles may not be sold at all or without extensive edits in certain countries, such as germany. in the united states, we develop software titles that we intend to receive esrb ratings of "e" (age 6 and older), "e10+" (age 10 and older), "t" (age 13 and older) or "m" (age 17 and older). in addition to these ratings, the esrb may also rate a game as "ao" (age 18 and older). platform licensors may not certify a game rated "ao" and retailers may refuse to sell "ao" games or games with controversial content. for instance, in 2007, some retailers reacted to the controversy over manhunt 2 by refusing to sell it or refusing to sell it in brick and mortar stores. in addition, some consumers have reacted to re-ratings or controversial game content by refusing to purchase such games, demanding refunds for games that they had already purchased, and refraining from buying other games published by us. we have implemented processes to comply with the requirements of the esrb and other ratings organizations. nonetheless, these processes are subject to human error, circumvention, overriding and reasonable resource constraints. if a video game we published were found to contain undisclosed pertinent content, the esrb could re-rate a game, retailers could refuse to sell it and demand that we accept the return of any unsold copies or returns from customers, and consumers could refuse to buy it or demand that we refund their money. this could have a material negative impact on our operating results and financial condition. in addition, we may be exposed to litigation, administrative fines and penalties and our reputation could be harmed, which could impact sales of other video games we sell. if any of these consequences were to occur, our business and financial performance could be significantly harmed. many of our rockstar titles and certain of our 2k games titles have been rated "m" by the esrb. if we are unable to obtain "m" ratings and instead receive "ao" ratings on future versions of those or similar titles as a result of changes in the esrb's ratings standards or for other reasons, including the adoption of legislation in this area, our business and prospects could be negatively affected. if any of our games are re-rated by the esrb or other foreign based ratings organizations, we could be exposed to litigation, administrative fines and penalties and other potential liabilities, and our operating results and financial condition could be significantly impacted. our business and products are subject to potential legislation. the adoption of such proposed legislation could limit the retail market for our products. several proposals have been made for federal legislation to regulate our industry. such proposals seek to prohibit the sale of "m" rated, "ao" rated and "rating pending" products to under-17 audiences (while the esrb rating recommends an appropriate age group, there is currently no legal prohibition on any game sales). if any such proposals are enacted into law, it may limit the potential market for our "m" rated products in the united states, and adversely affect our operating results. other countries, such as germany, have adopted laws regulating content both in packaged games and those transmitted over the internet that are stricter than current united states laws. in the united states, proposals have also been 18 made by numerous state legislators to regulate the sale of "m" or "ao" rated products and prohibit the sale of interactive entertainment software products containing certain types of violence or sexual materials to under 17 or 18 audiences. while such legislation to date has been enjoined by industry and retail groups, the adoption into law of such legislation in federal and/or in state jurisdictions in which we do significant business could severely limit the retail market for our "m" rated titles. content policies adopted by retailers, consumer opposition and litigation could negatively impact sales of our products. retailers may decline to sell interactive entertainment software containing what they judge to be graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other content that they deem inappropriate for their businesses. if retailers decline to sell our products based upon their opinion that they contain objectionable themes, graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other generally objectionable content, or if any of our previously "m" rated series products are rated "ao," we might be required to significantly change or discontinue particular titles or series, which in the case of our best selling grand theft auto titles could seriously affect our business. consumer advocacy groups have opposed sales of interactive entertainment software containing objectionable themes, violence or sexual material or other objectionable content by pressing for legislation in these areas and by engaging in public demonstrations and media campaigns. additionally, although lawsuits seeking damages for injuries allegedly suffered by third parties as a result of video games have been unsuccessful in the courts, claims of this kind have been asserted against us from time to time and may be asserted and be successful in the future. see "item 3. legal proceedings." we cannot publish our titles without the approval of hardware licensors that are also our competitors. we are required to obtain licenses from sony, microsoft and nintendo, which are also our competitors, to develop and publish titles for their respective hardware platforms. our existing platform licenses require that we obtain approval for the publication of new titles on a title-by-title basis. as a result, the number of titles we are able to publish for these hardware platforms, our ability to manage the timing of the release of these titles and, accordingly, our net revenue from titles for these hardware platforms, may be limited. if a licensor chooses not to renew or extend our license agreement at the end of its current term, or if a licensor were to terminate our license for any reason or does not approve one or more of our titles, we may be unable to publish that title as well as additional titles for that licensor's platform. termination of any such agreements or disapproval of titles could seriously hurt our business and prospects. certain platform licensors have retained the right to change fee structures for online gameplay, and each licensor's ability to set royalty rates makes it difficult for us to forecast our costs. increased costs could negatively impact our operating margins. we may be unable to continue to enter into license agreements for certain current generation platforms on satisfactory terms or at all. failure to enter into any such agreement could also seriously hurt our business. our quarterly operating results are dependent on the release of "hit" titles and are highly seasonal which may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate significantly. such fluctuations could cause our stock price to decline. we have experienced and may continue to experience wide fluctuations in quarterly operating results. the release of a "hit" title typically leads to a high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. in addition, the interactive entertainment industry is highly seasonal, with sales typically higher during the fourth calendar quarter (our fourth and first fiscal quarters), due primarily to increased demand for games during the holiday buying season. demand for and sales of our sports titles are also seasonal in that they are typically released just prior to the start of the sport season which they depict. our failure or inability to produce "hit" titles or introduce products on a timely basis to meet seasonal fluctuations in demand could adversely affect our business and operating results. the uncertainties associated with software development, manufacturing lead times, production delays and the 19 approval process for products by hardware manufacturers and other licensors make it difficult to predict the quarter in which our products will ship and therefore may cause us to fail to meet financial expectations. if we are unable to protect the intellectual property relating to our software, the commercial value of our products will be adversely affected and our competitive position could be harmed. we develop proprietary software and have obtained the rights to publish and distribute software developed by third parties. we attempt to protect our software and production techniques under copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as well as through contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and distribution. our software is susceptible to piracy and unauthorized copying. unauthorized third parties may be able to copy or to reverse engineer our software to obtain and use programming or production techniques that we regard as proprietary. well organized piracy operations have also proliferated in recent years, resulting in the ability to download pirated copies of our software over the internet. although we attempt to incorporate protective measures into our software, piracy of our products could negatively impact our future profitability. data breaches involving the source code for our products could adversely affect our revenues. we securely store the source code for our interactive entertainment software products as it is created. a breach, whether physical, electronic or otherwise, of the systems on which such source code and other sensitive data is stored could lead to damage or piracy of our software. if we are subject to data security breaches, we may have a loss in sales or increased costs arising from the restoration or implementation of additional security measures which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. if we infringe on or are alleged to infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, our business could be adversely affected. with advances in technology, game content and software graphics are expected to continue to become more realistic. as a result, we believe that interactive entertainment software will increasingly become the subject of claims that such software infringes on the intellectual property rights of others. from time to time, we receive notices from third parties or are named in lawsuits by third parties alleging infringement of their proprietary rights. although we believe that our software and technologies and the software and technologies of third party developers and publishers with whom we have contractual relations do not and will not infringe or violate proprietary rights of others, it is possible that infringement of proprietary rights of others may occur. any claims of infringement, with or without merit, could be time consuming, costly and difficult to defend. moreover, intellectual property litigation or claims could require us to discontinue the distribution of products, obtain a license or redesign our products, which could result in additional substantial costs and material delays. our software is susceptible to errors, which can harm our financial results and reputation. the technological advancements of new hardware platforms result in the development of more complex software products. as software products become more complex, the risk of undetected errors in new products increases. we may need to produce and distribute patches in order to repair such errors, which could be costly and may distract our developers from working on new products. if, despite testing, errors are found in new products or releases after shipments have been made, we could experience a loss of or delay in timely market acceptance, product returns, loss of revenue, increases in costs relating to the repair of such errors and damage to our reputation. 20 gross margins relating to our distribution business have historically been narrow, which increases the impact of variations in costs on our operating results. as a result of intense price competition, our gross margins in our distribution business have historically been narrow and may continue to be narrow in the future. accordingly, slight variations in operating costs and expenses could result in losses in our distribution business from period to period. we may not be able to adequately adjust our cost structure in a timely fashion in response to a sudden decrease in demand. a significant portion of our selling and general and administrative expense is attributable to expenses for personnel and facilities. in the event of a significant decline in revenue, we may not be able to dispose of facilities, reduce personnel or make other changes to our cost structure without disruption to our operations or without significant termination and exit costs. management may not be able to implement such actions in a timely manner, if at all, to offset an immediate shortfall in revenue and profit. moreover, reducing costs may impair our ability to produce and develop software titles at sufficient levels in the future. we are subject to risks and uncertainties of international trade, including fluctuations in the values of local foreign currencies against the dollar. sales in international markets, primarily in europe, have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenue. we have also recently expanded our asian operations in an effort to increase our geographical scope and diversify our revenue base. sales in international markets accounted for approximately 40.7%, 31.3% and 39.4%, respectively, of our net revenue for the years ended october 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. we are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased credit risks, tariffs and duties, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, shipping delays, and international political, regulatory and economic developments, all of which can have a significant impact on our operating results. all of our international sales are made in local currencies, which could fluctuate against the dollar. while we may use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. our business may be affected by issues in the economy that affect consumer spending. most of our products involve discretionary spending on the part of consumers. we believe that consumer spending is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. this makes our products particularly sensitive to general economic conditions and economic cycles. certain economic conditions such as u.s. or international general economic downturns, including periods of increased inflation, unemployment levels, tax rates, interest rates, gasoline and other energy prices or declining consumer confidence could reduce consumer spending. reduced consumer spending may result in reduced demand for our products and may also require increased selling and promotional expenses. a reduction or shift in domestic or international consumer spending could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. consumers are generally more willing to make discretionary purchases, including purchases of products like ours, during periods in which favorable economic conditions prevail. if economic conditions worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. our stock price has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate significantly. the market price of our common stock historically has been, and we expect will continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations. these fluctuations may be due to factors specific to us including those discussed in the risk factors under this item 1a as well as others not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material, to changes in securities analysts' earnings estimates or ratings, to our results or future 21 financial guidance falling below our expectations and analysts' and investors' expectations, to factors affecting the computer, software, entertainment, media or electronics industries, or to national or international economic conditions. stock markets, in general, have experienced over the years, and continue to experience, significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected market prices for companies such as ours and that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. we face risks from our international operations. we are subject to certain risks because of our international operations, particularly as we seek to grow our business and presence outside of the united states. changes to and compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations may increase our cost of doing business and our inability or failure to obtain required approvals could harm our international and domestic sales. trade legislation in either the united states or other countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, import/export compliance laws or other trade laws or policies, could adversely affect our ability to sell or to distribute in international markets. we incur additional legal compliance costs associated with our international operations and could become subject to legal penalties in foreign countries if we do not comply with local laws and regulations which may be substantially different from those in the united states. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by united states laws and regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, and by local laws, such as laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials. although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, including those based in or from countries where practices which violate such laws may be customary, will not take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. our reported financial results could be adversely affected by the application of existing or future accounting standards to our business as it evolves. the frequency of accounting policy changes may continue to accelerate. for example, standards regarding software revenue recognition have and could further significantly affect the way we account for revenue related to our products and services. we expect that a significant portion of our games will be online-enabled in the future, and we could be required to recognize the related revenue over an extended period of time rather than at the time of sale. as we enhance, expand and diversify our business and product offerings, the application of existing or future financial accounting standards, particularly those relating to the way we account for revenue, could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results although not necessarily on our cash flows. due to recent economic turmoil and a general depression in stock prices, we could become the target of an unsolicited offer to acquire our shares of common stock. an unsolicited offer could create volatility in our stock price, could create a distraction for our management and employees, and could cause uncertainty that may adversely affect our business. due to significant price and volume fluctuations in the stock markets recently, we may become an attractive target for an unsolicited bid for shares of our common stock. an unsolicited bid for shares of our common stock would be a distraction for our management and employees, and require the expenditure of significant time and resources by us and could cause our stock price to fluctuate significantly. an unsolicited bid could also adversely impact our ability to recruit and retain employees and our ability to enter into agreements with potential business partners. for example, in 2008, electronic arts inc. ("ea") 22 launched an unsolicited tender offer to acquire all of our outstanding shares of common stock. ea's unsolicited tender offer caused our stock price to fluctuate significantly, was a significant distraction for our management, created uncertainty for our employees, and created uncertainty for current and potential publishers, developers, distributors and other business partners. furthermore, stockholder litigation in connection with ea's unsolicited tender offer resulted in, and continues to result in, significant legal costs. if we were to become the target of another unsolicited offer, whether from ea or another party, we could be subject to any of the aforementioned concerns which could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. risk factors quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to market risks in the ordinary course of our business, primarily risks associated with interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations. historically, fluctuations in interest rates have not had a significant impact on our operating results. under our amended credit agreement, outstanding balances bear interest at our election of (a) 2.00% to 2.50% above a certain base rate (8.00% at october 31, 2008), or (b) 3.25% to 3.75% above the libor rate with a minimum 4.00% libor rate (7.25% at october 31, 2008), with the margin rate subject to the 51 achievement of certain average liquidity levels. changes in market rates may impact our future interest expense. for instance, if the libor rate were to increase one percentage point (1.0%), our expected annual interest expense would change by approximately $0.7 million based on our outstanding loan balance as of october 31, 2008. a decrease in the libor rate would not have a material impact on interest expense because of the 4.00% minimum libor rate prescribed under our amended credit agreement. we transact business in foreign currencies and are exposed to risks resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. accounts relating to foreign operations are translated into united states dollars using prevailing exchange rates at the relevant quarter end. translation adjustments are included as a separate component of stockholders' equity. for the year ended october 31, 2008, our foreign currency translation adjustment loss was approximately $42.4 million. for the year ended october 31, 2008, 40.7% of the company's revenue was generated outside the united states. using sensitivity analysis, a hypothetical 10% increase in the value of the u.s. dollar against all currencies would decrease revenues by 4.1%, while a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of the u.s. dollar against all currencies would increase revenues by 4.1%. in the opinion of management, a substantial portion of this fluctuation would be offset by expenses incurred in local currency. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskrisk factors 11 risk factors our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. because of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other factors affecting our operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance and our business and financial performance could be harmed and the market value of our securities could decline. risks relating to our business we are dependent on the future success of our grand theft auto products and we must continue to publish "hit" titles or sequels to such "hit" titles in order to compete successfully in our industry. grand theft auto and certain of our other titles are "hit" products and have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our revenue. if we fail to continue to develop and sell new commercially successful "hit" titles or sequels to such "hit" titles or experience any delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our "hit" titles or their sequels, our revenue and profits may decrease substantially and we may incur losses. for the years ended october 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, our grand theft auto titles accounted for 30.6%, 46.2% and 13.1% of our net revenue, respectively, and our 10 best selling titles accounted for approximately 47.1%, 64.2% and 26.6% of our net revenue, respectively. in addition, competition in our industry is intense and a relatively small number of hit titles account for a large portion of total revenue in our industry. hit products offered by our competitors may take a larger share of consumer spending than we anticipate, which could cause revenue generated from our products to fall below our expectations. if our competitors develop more successful products or services at lower price points or based on payment models perceived as offering better value (such as pay-for-play or subscription-based models), or if we do not continue to develop consistently high quality and well-received products and services, our revenue and profitability may decline. we are subject to product development risks which could result in delays and additional costs, and we must adapt to changes in software technologies. we depend on our internal development studios and third party software developers to develop new interactive entertainment software within anticipated release schedules and cost projections. the development cycle for new titles generally ranges from 12 to more than 24 months, and our top-selling titles could take up to three years or longer to develop. development times and costs of current generation software have increased substantially as a result of the additional and enhanced features available in the newest games. further, after development of a product it may take between 9 and 12 additional months to develop the product for other hardware platforms. if our third party software developers experience unanticipated development delays, financial difficulties or additional costs we will not be able to release titles according to our schedule and at budgeted costs. certain of our licensing and marketing agreements also contain provisions that would impose penalties if we fail to meet agreed upon game release dates. there can be no assurance that our products will be sufficiently successful so that we can recoup these costs or make a profit on these products. additionally, in order to stay competitive, our internal development studios must anticipate and adapt to rapid technological changes affecting software development. any inability to respond to technological advances and implement new technologies could render our products obsolete or less marketable. 11 table of contents the market for our titles is characterized by short product life cycles. the inability of our products to achieve significant market acceptance, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our products may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. the market for video games is characterized by short product lives and frequent introductions of new products. new products may not achieve significant market acceptance, generate sufficient sales or be introduced in a timely manner to permit us to recover development, manufacturing and marketing costs associated with these products. the life cycle of a title generally involves a relatively high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. because revenue associated with an initial product launch generally constitutes a high percentage of the total revenue associated with the life of a product, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of one or more new products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cause our operating results to be materially different from our expectations. our business is subject to the continued popularity of current generation video game platforms and our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. we derive most of our revenue from the sale of products for play on video game platforms manufactured by third parties, such as sony's playstation 3 and psp, microsoft's xbox 360 and nintendo's wii and ds. the success of our business is subject to the continued popularity of these platforms and our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. if the average price of our prior generation software titles continues to decline or if we are unable to sustain launch pricing on current generation titles, our operating results may suffer. the interactive entertainment software and hardware industry is characterized by the introduction of new and enhanced generations of products and evolving industry standards. current generation titles for the ps3, xbox 360 and wii have been offered at premium retail prices since the launch of such consoles. we expect to continue to price current generation titles at a premium level. however, circumstances may arise in which we may need to reduce prices for such titles. for example, the current economic downturn has reduced consumer demand and some of our competitors have temporarily dropped and may continue to drop the pricing of their games for promotional purposes. in addition, retailers have been increasingly funding their own promotional pricing programs. continued promotional pricing could require us to reduce prices on our current generation titles. if we are unable to sustain launch pricing on these current generation titles, it will have a material adverse effect on our margins, profitability and operating results. consumer demand for software for prior generation platforms has declined as newer and more advanced hardware platforms achieve market acceptance. consequently, pricing for prior generation titles across the industry has declined and we expect it to continue to decline. furthermore, prior generation titles may be subject to price reductions earlier in their product life cycles than we experienced in prior years. as a result, we have reduced prices for our prior generation software titles and we expect to continue to reduce prices for such software titles, which will have a negative impact on our operating results. these changes may cause the value of our inventory to decline substantially or to become obsolete. we depend on our key management and product development personnel. our continued success will depend to a significant extent on our senior management team and our relationship with zelnickmedia. our executive chairman, chief executive officer and an executive vice president are partners of zelnickmedia. we are also highly dependent on the expertise, skills and knowledge of certain of our rockstar employees responsible for content creation and development of our grand theft auto titles and titles based on other brands. although we entered into employment agreements with members of the creative team of our rockstar games publishing label, we may not be able to continue to retain these personnel at current compensation levels, or at all. 12 table of contents the loss of the services of our executive officers, zelnickmedia or our key rockstar employees could significantly harm our business. in addition, if one or more key employees were to join a competitor or form a competing company, we may lose additional personnel, experience material interruptions in product development, delays in bringing products to market and difficulties in our relationships with licensors, suppliers and customers, which would significantly harm our business. failure to continue to attract and retain other qualified management and creative personnel could adversely affect our business and prospects. the recent decline in consumer spending and other adverse changes in the economy have negatively affected our business and any further declines in consumer spending or other adverse changes in the economy could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. most of our products involve discretionary spending on the part of consumers. we believe that consumer spending is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. this makes our products particularly sensitive to general economic conditions and economic cycles as consumers are generally more willing to make discretionary purchases, including purchases of products like ours, during periods in which favorable economic conditions prevail. as a result of the current national and global economic downturn, overall consumer spending has declined and retailers globally have taken a more conservative stance in ordering game inventory. continued adverse economic conditions such as a prolonged u.s. or international general economic downturn, including periods of increased inflation, unemployment levels, tax rates, interest rates, energy prices or declining consumer confidence could also reduce consumer spending. reduced consumer spending has and may continue to result in reduced demand for our products and may also require increased selling and promotional expenses, which has had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. furthermore, uncertainty and adverse changes in the economy could also increase the risk of material losses on our investments, increase costs associated with developing and publishing our products, increase the cost and availability of sources of financing, and increase our exposure to material losses from bad debts, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. if economic conditions worsen, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. our quarterly operating results are dependent on the release of "hit" titles and are highly seasonal which may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate significantly. we have experienced and may continue to experience wide fluctuations in quarterly operating results. the release of a "hit" title typically leads to a high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. in addition, the interactive entertainment industry is highly seasonal, with sales typically higher during the fourth calendar quarter (our fourth and first fiscal quarters), due primarily to increased demand for games during the holiday season. demand for and sales of our sports titles are also seasonal in that they are typically released just prior to the start of the sport season which they depict. our failure or inability to produce "hit" titles or introduce products on a timely basis to meet seasonal fluctuations in demand could adversely affect our business and operating results. the uncertainties associated with software development, manufacturing lead times, production delays and the approval process for products by hardware manufacturers and other licensors make it difficult to predict the quarter in which our products will ship and therefore may cause us to fail to meet financial expectations. we may not be able to adequately adjust our cost structure in a timely fashion in response to a sudden decrease in demand. a significant portion of our selling and general and administrative expense is attributable to expenses for personnel and facilities. in the event of a significant decline in revenue, we may not be able to dispose of 13 table of contents facilities, reduce personnel or make other changes to our cost structure without disruption to our operations or without significant termination and exit costs. management may not be able to implement such actions in a timely manner, if at all, to offset an immediate shortfall in revenue and profit. moreover, reducing costs may impair our ability to produce and develop software titles at sufficient levels in the future. returns of our published titles by our customers and price concessions granted to our customers may adversely affect our operating results. we are exposed to the risk of product returns and price concessions with respect to our customers. our distribution arrangements with customers generally do not give them the right to return titles to us or to cancel firm orders. however, we sometimes accept product returns from our distribution customers for stock balancing and negotiate accommodations for customers, which include credits and returns, when demand for specific products falls below expectations. we accept returns and grant price concessions in connection with our publishing arrangements and revenue is recognized after deducting estimated reserves for returns and price concessions. while we believe that we can reliably estimate future returns and price concessions, if return rates and price concessions for our products exceed our reserves, our revenue could decline. increased sales of used video game products could lower our sales. certain of our larger customers sell used video games, which are generally priced lower than new video games. if our customers continue to increase their sales of used video games, it could negatively affect our sales of new video games and have an adverse impact on our operating results. a limited number of customers account for a significant portion of our sales. the loss of a principal customer could seriously hurt our business. a substantial portion of our product sales are made to a limited number of customers. sales to our five largest customers accounted for approximately 48.0%, 40.2% and 51.1% of our net revenue for the years ended october 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, with wal-mart, gamestop and best buy accounting for 14.2% and 14.0% and 10.0%, respectively, of net revenue for the year ended october 31, 2009. our sales are made primarily pursuant to purchase orders without long-term agreements or other commitments, and our customers may terminate their relationship with us at any time. certain of our customers may decline to carry products containing mature content. the loss of our relationships with principal customers or a decline in sales to principal customers, including as a result of a product being rated "ao" (age 18 and over), could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. furthermore, our customers may also be placed into bankruptcy, become insolvent or be liquidated due to the current economic downturn, the global contraction of credit or for other factors. bankruptcies or consolidations of certain large retail customers could seriously hurt our business, including as a result of uncollectible accounts receivable from such customers and the concentration of purchasing power among remaining large retailers. if our marketing and advertising efforts fail to resonate with our customers, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. our products are marketed worldwide through a diverse spectrum of advertising and promotional programs such as television and online advertising, print advertising, retail merchandising, website development and event sponsorship. our ability to sell our products and services is dependent in part on the success of these programs. if the marketing for our products and services fails to resonate with our customers, particularly during the holiday season or other key selling periods, or if advertising rates or 14 table of contents other media placement costs increase, these factors could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. we rely on a primary distribution service provider for a significant portion of our products and the failure of this service provider to perform as expected could harm our operating results. we sell our products to our customers in the united states primarily through a distribution service provider, ditan distribution, llc. ditan provides shipping, receiving, warehouse management and related functions. if ditan does not perform these services in a satisfactory manner, or if we desire or are required to replace ditan as our primary distributor and are unable to do so, our sales and operating results could suffer. the interactive entertainment software industry is highly competitive both for our publishing and distribution operations. we compete for both licenses to properties and the sale of interactive entertainment software with sony, microsoft and nintendo, each of which is a large developer and marketer of software for its own platforms. we also compete with domestic game publishers, such as electronic arts, activision blizzard and thq and international publishers, such as capcom, square enix, konami, namco-bandai, sega and ubisoft. as our business is dependent upon our ability to develop hit titles, which require increasing budgets for development and marketing, the availability of significant financial resources has become a major competitive factor in developing and marketing software games. some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, personnel and other resources than we do and are able to finance larger budgets for development and marketing and make higher offers to licensors and developers for commercially desirable properties. our titles also compete with other forms of entertainment, such as motion pictures, television and audio and video products featuring similar themes, online computer programs and other entertainment, which may be less expensive or provide other advantages to consumers. our distribution business also operates in a highly competitive environment. competition is based primarily on breadth, availability and quality of product lines; price; terms and conditions of sale; credit terms and availability; speed and accuracy of delivery; and effectiveness of sales and marketing programs. our competitors include regional, national and international distributors, as well as hardware manufacturers and software publishers. we may lose market share or be forced in the future to reduce our prices in response to our competitors. our distribution business has been adversely affected by lower sales volume of software titles, the availability of certain hardware products and increased competition in the value software market. a number of software publishers who compete with us have developed and commercialized or are currently developing online games for use by consumers over the internet. if technological advances significantly increase the availability of online games and if consumer acceptance of online gaming grows substantially, it could result in a decline in our platform-based software sales and negatively impact sales of our products. increased competition for limited shelf space and promotional support from retailers could affect the success of our business and require us to incur greater expenses to market our titles. retailers have limited shelf space and promotional resources and competition is intense among newly introduced interactive entertainment software titles for adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support. competition for retail shelf space is expected to increase, which may require us to increase our marketing expenditures to maintain desirable sales levels of our titles. competitors with more extensive lines and more popular titles may have greater bargaining power with retailers. accordingly, we may not be able, or we may have to pay more than our competitors, to achieve similar levels of promotional support and shelf space. 15 table of contents our business is dependent on our ability to enter into successful software development arrangements with third parties. our success depends on our ability to continually identify and develop new titles on a timely basis. we rely on third party software developers for the development of some of our titles. quality third party developers are continually in high demand. software developers who have developed titles for us in the past may not be available to develop software for us in the future. due to the limited number of third party software developers and the limited control that we exercise over them, these developers may not be able to complete titles for us on a timely basis or within acceptable quality standards, if at all. we have entered into agreements with third parties to acquire the rights to publish and distribute interactive entertainment software as well as to use licensed intellectual properties in our titles. these agreements typically require us to make development payments, pay royalties and satisfy other conditions. our development payments may not be sufficient to permit developers to develop new software successfully, which could result in material delays and significantly increase our costs to bring particular products to market. software development costs, promotion and marketing expenses and royalties payable to software developers and third party licensors have increased significantly in recent years and reduce potential profits derived from sales of our software. future sales of our titles may not be sufficient to recover development payments and advances to software developers and licensors, and we may not have adequate financial and other resources to satisfy our contractual commitments to such developers. if we fail to satisfy our obligations under agreements with third party developers and licensors, the agreements may be terminated or modified in ways that are burdensome to us, and have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and operating results. we cannot publish our titles without the approval of hardware licensors that are also our competitors. we are required to obtain licenses from sony, microsoft and nintendo, which are also our competitors, to develop and publish titles for their respective hardware platforms. our existing platform licenses require that we obtain approval for the publication of new titles on a title-by-title basis. as a result, the number of titles we are able to publish for these hardware platforms, our ability to manage the timing of the release of these titles and, accordingly, our net revenue from titles for these hardware platforms, may be limited. if a licensor chooses not to renew or extend our license agreement at the end of its current term, or if a licensor were to terminate our license for any reason or does not approve one or more of our titles, we may be unable to publish that title as well as additional titles for that licensor's platform. termination of any such agreements or disapproval of titles could seriously hurt our business and prospects. we may be unable to continue to enter into license agreements for certain current generation platforms on satisfactory terms or at all. failure to enter into any such agreement could also seriously hurt our business. our platform licensors control the fee structures for online distribution of our games on their platforms. certain platform licensors have retained the right to change the fee structures for online distribution of both paid content and free content (including patches and corrections) on their platforms. each licensor's ability to set royalty rates makes it difficult for us to forecast our costs. increased costs could negatively impact our operating margins. we may be unable to distribute our content in a cost-effective or profitable manner through this distribution channel, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. 16 table of contents we submit our products for rating by the entertainment software rating board ("esrb") in the united states and other voluntary or government ratings organizations in foreign countries. failure to obtain a target rating for certain of our products could negatively impact our ability to distribute and sell those games, as could the re-rating of a game for any reason. we voluntarily submit our game products to the esrb, a u.s.-based non-profit and independent ratings organization. the esrb system provides consumers with information about game content using a rating symbol that generally suggests the appropriate player age group and specific content descriptors, such as graphic violence, profanity or sexually explicit material. the esrb may impose significant penalties on game publishers for violations of its rules related to rating or marketing games, including revocation of a rating or monetary fines up to $1 million. other countries require voluntary or government backed ratings as prerequisites for product sales. in some instances, we may have to modify our products in order to market them under the target rating, which could delay or disrupt the release of our products. in addition, some of our titles may not be sold at all or without extensive edits in certain countries, such as germany. in the united states, if the esrb rates a game as "ao" (age 18 and older), platform licensors may not certify the game and retailers may refuse to sell it. in addition, some consumers have reacted to re-ratings or controversial game content by refusing to purchase such games, demanding refunds for games that they had already purchased, and refraining from buying other games published by us. many of our rockstar titles and certain of our 2k games titles have been rated "m" (age 17 and older) by the esrb. if we are unable to obtain "m" ratings and instead receive "ao" ratings on future versions of those or similar titles as a result of changes in the esrb's ratings standards or for other reasons, including the adoption of legislation in this area, our business and prospects could be negatively affected. if any of our games are re-rated by the esrb or other foreign based ratings organizations, we could be exposed to litigation, administrative fines and penalties and other potential liabilities, and our operating results and financial condition could be significantly impacted. we have implemented processes to comply with the requirements of the esrb and other ratings organizations and properly display the designated rating symbols and content descriptions. nonetheless, these processes are subject to human error, circumvention, overriding and reasonable resource constraints. if a video game we published were found to contain undisclosed pertinent content, the esrb could re-rate a game, retailers could refuse to sell it and demand that we accept the return of any unsold copies or returns from customers, and consumers could refuse to buy it or demand that we refund their money. this could have a material negative impact on our operating results and financial condition. in addition, we may be exposed to litigation, administrative fines and penalties and our reputation could be harmed, which could impact sales of other video games we sell. if any of these consequences were to occur, our business and financial performance could be significantly harmed. content policies adopted by retailers, consumer opposition and litigation could negatively impact sales of our products. retailers may decline to sell interactive entertainment software containing what they judge to be graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other content that they deem inappropriate for their businesses. if retailers decline to sell our products based upon their opinion that they contain objectionable themes, graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other generally objectionable content, or if any of our previously "m" rated series products are rated "ao," we might be required to significantly change or discontinue particular titles or series, which in the case of our best selling grand theft auto titles could seriously affect our business. consumer advocacy groups have opposed sales of interactive entertainment software containing objectionable themes, violence or sexual material or other objectionable content by pressing for legislation in these areas and by engaging in public demonstrations and media campaigns. additionally, although lawsuits seeking damages for injuries allegedly suffered by third parties as a result of video games have generally been unsuccessful in the courts, claims of this kind have been asserted against us from time to time and may be asserted and be successful in the future. 17 table of contents our business and products are subject to potential legislation. the adoption of such proposed legislation could limit the retail market for our products. several proposals have been made for federal legislation to regulate our industry. such proposals seek to prohibit the sale of products containing content included in some of our games. if any such proposals are enacted into law, it may limit the potential market for some of our games in the united states, and adversely affect our operating results. other countries, such as germany, have adopted laws regulating content both in packaged games and those transmitted over the internet that are stricter than current united states laws. in the united states, proposals have also been made by numerous state legislators to regulate and prohibit the sale of interactive entertainment software products containing certain types of violent or sexual content to under 17 or 18 audiences. while such legislation to date has been enjoined by industry and retail groups, the adoption into law of such legislation in federal and/or in state jurisdictions in which we do significant business could severely limit the retail market for some of our games. we may need to raise additional capital if we continue to incur losses. we incurred losses in the year ended october 31, 2009, and we may continue to incur losses. if we incur losses in the future, we may be required to raise additional capital in order to fund our operations. we could seek to raise capital in a number of ways, including through the issuance of debt or equity, or through other financing arrangements. during the year ended october 31, 2007, we entered into a senior secured line of credit agreement (and expanded the line of credit in november 2007), which requires us to make periodic interest or other debt service payments. in addition, during the year ended october 31, 2009 we issued convertible senior notes, which require us to make periodic interest payments to the holders of the convertible senior notes. if we borrow additional funds, further debt service payments would probably be necessary. in addition, the terms of additional debt may impose significant restrictions on our ability to operate our business. if we seek financing through the sale of equity or equity-based securities (such as our convertible senior notes), our current stockholders will suffer dilution in their percentage ownership of common stock. we cannot be certain as to our ability to raise additional capital in the future or under what terms capital would be available, particularly in light of the current economic downturn which has, among other consequences, led to the depression of stock prices and the tightening of credit. if we need to raise capital and are not successful in doing so, we will have to consider other options that may include, but are not limited to, a reduction in our expenditures for internal and external new product development, reductions in overhead expenses, and sales of intellectual property and other assets. these actions, should they become necessary, will likely result in a reduction in the size of our operations and could materially affect the prospects of our business. continued turmoil in the credit markets may affect our ability to raise additional capital. ongoing turmoil in the credit markets may make it difficult for us to obtain financing, on acceptable terms or at all, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other investments. liquidity in credit markets has contracted significantly, making terms for certain financings less attractive. these difficulties could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. we are subject to risks and uncertainties of international trade, including fluctuations in the values of local foreign currencies against the dollar. sales in international markets, primarily in europe, have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenue. we have also recently expanded our asian operations in an effort to increase our geographical scope and diversify our revenue base. sales in international markets accounted for approximately 32.5%, 40.7% and 31.3%, respectively, of our net revenue for the years ended october 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. we are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased credit risks, tariffs and duties, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, shipping delays, and international political, 18 table of contents regulatory and economic developments, all of which can have a significant impact on our operating results. all of our international sales are made in local currencies, which could fluctuate against the dollar. while we may use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our operating results could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. we face risks from our international operations. we are subject to certain risks because of our international operations, particularly as we seek to grow our business and presence outside of the united states. changes to and compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations may increase our cost of doing business and our inability or failure to obtain required approvals could harm our international and domestic sales. trade legislation in either the united states or other countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, import/export compliance laws or other trade laws or policies, could adversely affect our ability to sell or to distribute in international markets. we incur additional legal compliance costs associated with our international operations and could become subject to legal penalties in foreign countries if we do not comply with local laws and regulations which may be substantially different from those in the united states. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by united states laws and regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, and by local laws, such as laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials. although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, including those based in or from countries where practices which violate such laws may be customary, will not take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. our distribution business is dependent on suppliers to maintain an adequate supply of products to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis. our ability to obtain particular products in required quantities and to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis is important to the success of our distribution business. in most cases, we have no guaranteed price or delivery agreements with suppliers. our distribution business has experienced, and may in the future experience, significant supply shortages from time to time due to the inability of certain manufacturers to supply products, such as the newest generation of platforms, on a timely basis. further, manufacturers or publishers that currently distribute their products through us may decide to distribute, or to substantially increase their existing distribution, through other distributors, or directly to retailers. if we cannot obtain sufficient supplies of the products that we distribute, our net revenue could decline and we could incur losses. gross margins relating to our distribution business have historically been narrow, which increases the impact of variations in costs on our operating results. as a result of intense price competition, the gross margins in our distribution business have historically been narrow and may continue to be narrow in the future. accordingly, slight variations in operating costs and expenses could result in losses in our distribution business from period to period. if we are unable to protect the intellectual property relating to our software, the commercial value of our products will be adversely affected and our competitive position could be harmed. we develop proprietary software and have obtained the rights to publish and distribute software developed by third parties. we attempt to protect our software and production techniques under copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as well as through contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and distribution. our software is susceptible to piracy and unauthorized copying. unauthorized third parties may be able to 19 table of contents copy or to reverse engineer our software to obtain and use programming or production techniques that we regard as proprietary. well organized piracy operations have also proliferated in recent years, resulting in the ability to download pirated copies of our software over the internet. although we attempt to incorporate protective measures into our software, piracy of our products could negatively impact our future profitability. if we infringe on or are alleged to infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, our business could be adversely affected. with advances in technology, game content and software graphics are expected to continue to become more realistic. as a result, we believe that interactive entertainment software will increasingly become the subject of claims that such software infringes on the intellectual property rights of others. from time to time, we receive notices from third parties or are named in lawsuits by third parties alleging infringement of their proprietary rights. although we believe that our software and technologies and the software and technologies of third party developers and publishers with whom we have contractual relations do not and will not infringe or violate proprietary rights of others, it is possible that infringement of proprietary rights of others may occur. any claims of infringement, with or without merit, could be time consuming, costly and difficult to defend. moreover, intellectual property litigation or claims could require us to discontinue the distribution of products, obtain a license or redesign our products, which could result in additional substantial costs and material delays. data breaches involving the source code for our products could adversely affect our revenues. we securely store the source code for our interactive entertainment software products as it is created. a breach, whether physical, electronic or otherwise, of the systems on which such source code and other sensitive data is stored could lead to damage or piracy of our software. if we are subject to data security breaches, we may have a loss in sales or increased costs arising from the restoration or implementation of additional security measures which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. our software is susceptible to errors, which can harm our financial results and reputation. the technological advancements of new hardware platforms result in the development of more complex software products. as software products become more complex, the risk of undetected errors in new products increases. we may need to produce and distribute patches in order to repair such errors, which could be costly and may distract our developers from working on new products. if, despite testing, errors are found in new products or releases after shipments have been made, we could experience a loss of or delay in timely market acceptance, product returns, loss of revenue, increases in costs relating to the repair of such errors and damage to our reputation. if we acquire or invest in other businesses, intellectual properties or other assets, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired and/or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for such transactions. if appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may acquire or make investments in businesses, intellectual properties and other assets that we believe are strategic. we may not be able to identify, negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment successfully. even if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a business, intellectual property or other asset, such acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including: retaining key employees and maintaining the key business and customer relationships of the businesses we acquire; 20 table of contents cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from an acquired company or business into our organization; the possibility that the combined company would not achieve the expected benefits, including any anticipated operating and product synergies, of the acquisition as quickly as anticipated or that the costs of, or operational difficulties arising from, an acquisition would be greater than anticipated; significant acquisition-related accounting adjustments, particularly relating to an acquired company's deferred revenue, that may cause reported revenue and profits of the combined company to be lower than the sum of their stand-alone revenue and profits; significant accounting charges resulting from the completion and integration of a sizeable acquisition and increased capital expenditures, including potential impairment charges incurred to write down the carrying amount of intangible assets generated as a result of an acquisition; the possibility that we will not discover important facts during due diligence that could have a material adverse impact on the value of the businesses we acquire, including the possibility that a change of control of a company we acquire triggers a termination of contractual or intellectual property rights important to the operation of its business; the need to integrate an acquired company's accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management and timely reporting, and the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company in an acquired company that, prior to the acquisition, lacked these controls, procedures and policies; litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risks as a result of, an acquisition, including claims from terminated employees, customers or other third parties; and to the extent that we engage in strategic transactions outside of the united states, we face additional risks, including risks related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. future acquisitions and investments could also involve the issuance of our equity and equity-linked securities (potentially diluting our existing stockholders), the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, write-offs of goodwill, intangibles, or acquired in-process technology, or other increased cash and non-cash expenses such as stock-based compensation. any of the foregoing factors could harm our financial condition or prevent us from achieving improvements in our financial condition and operating performance that could have otherwise been achieved by us on a stand-alone basis. our stockholders may not have the opportunity to review, vote on or evaluate future acquisitions or investments. our ability to acquire licenses to intellectual property, especially for sports titles, impacts our revenue and profitability. competition for these licenses may make them more expensive and increase our costs. many of our products are based on or incorporate intellectual property owned by others. for example, our 2k sports products include rights licensed from major sports leagues and players' associations. similarly, some of our other titles are based on licenses of popular entertainment products. competition for these licenses is intense. if we are unable to maintain these licenses or obtain additional licenses on reasonable economic terms or with significant commercial value, our revenue and profitability could decline significantly. competition for these licenses may also increase the advances, guarantees and royalties that we must pay to the licensor, which could significantly increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability. in addition, on certain intellectual property licenses, we are subject to guaranteed minimum payments, royalties or standards of performance and may not be able to terminate these agreements prior 21 table of contents to their stated expiration. if such licensed products do not generate revenues in excess of such minimum guarantees, our profitability will be adversely impacted. we are subject to contractual covenants which place certain limitations on how we manage our business . our credit agreement and the indenture governing our convertible senior notes limit our ability to take various actions, including incurring additional debt, paying dividends, repurchasing shares and acquiring or disposing of assets or businesses. in addition, we have granted a security interest in connection with certain compensatory arrangements which limits our ability to incur senior debt in excess of certain amounts. accordingly, we may be restricted from taking actions that management believes would be desirable and in the best interests of us and our stockholders. our credit agreement and the indenture also require us to satisfy specified financial and non-financial covenants. a breach of any of the covenants contained in our credit agreement could result in an event of default under the agreement and under the indenture governing our convertible senior notes and would allow our lenders and noteholders to pursue various remedies, including accelerating the repayment of any outstanding indebtedness. our involvement, and the involvement of some of our former executive officers, in a wide variety of lawsuits, investigations and proceedings has had, and may in the future have, a material adverse effect on us. we and some of our former officers, directors and employees have recently been the subject of three separate governmental investigations and a substantial amount of litigation and other proceedings relating to the subject matter of those investigations. while most of these matters have been resolved, several remain outstanding. see "item 3. legal proceedings." these investigations, litigation and other proceedings have imposed significant costs on us, including professional fees, penalties and settlement costs, and the diversion of the time and attention of our management team. even if resolved favorably, the remaining litigation could continue to be time consuming and result in additional costs of the kind described above, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. we also may be subject to heightened scrutiny in the future as a result of our historical legal proceedings, including an increased likelihood of a government investigation occurring and an increased likelihood that any such investigation is more extensive than in the past. furthermore, any future fines, restrictions or other penalties imposed as a result of any such investigation may be more severe than those which may be imposed on a company without our history. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill becomes impaired. we are required under generally accepted accounting principles to review our goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating a requirement to reevaluate whether our goodwill continues to be recoverable, include a significant decline in stock price and market capitalization, slower growth rates in our industry or other materially adverse events. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill is determined. this may adversely impact our operating results. during our fourth quarter of 2009, we recorded a charge of $14.8 million to our earnings due to the impairment of our goodwill and intangible assets, and there can be no assurance that we will not have a further impairment of our goodwill or intangible assets in the future. our reported financial results could be adversely affected by the application of existing or future accounting standards to our business as it evolves. the frequency of accounting policy changes may continue to accelerate. for example, standards regarding software revenue recognition have and could further significantly affect the way we account for revenue related to our products and services. we expect that a significant portion of our games will be online- 22 table of contents enabled in the future, and we could be required to recognize the related revenue over an extended period of time rather than at the time of sale. as we enhance, expand and diversify our business and product offerings, the application of existing or future financial accounting standards, particularly those relating to the way we account for revenue, could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results although not necessarily on our cash flows. risks relating to our common stock for purposes of this section " risks relating to our common stock," references to "the company," "we," "our," and "us" refer only to take-two interactive software, inc. and not to its subsidiaries. additional issuances of equity securities by us would dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders. we may issue equity or equity-based securities (such as our convertible senior notes) in the future in connection with acquisitions or strategic transactions, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, including through repayment of outstanding debt, to fund expansion of our operations or for other purposes. to the extent we issue additional equity securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders would be reduced. future sales or other issuances of our common stock could adversely affect its market price. the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely impact its price. as of december 15, 2009, we had outstanding approximately 83,187,000 million shares of our common stock, options to purchase approximately 3,760,000 million shares of our common stock (of which approximately 3,161,000 million were exercisable as of that date) and warrants to purchase approximately 12,927,000 shares of our common stock. the sale or the availability for sale of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause the price of our common stock to decline. the issuance of shares of our common stock upon conversion of our convertible senior notes could also adversely affect the price of our common stock. our stock price has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate significantly. the market price of our common stock historically has been, and we expect will continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations. these fluctuations may be due to factors specific to us including those discussed in the risk factors in this section as well as others not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material, to changes in securities analysts' earnings estimates or ratings, to our results or future financial guidance falling below our expectations and analysts' and investors' expectations, to factors affecting the computer, software, entertainment, media or electronics industries, or to national or international economic conditions. stock markets, in general, have experienced over the years, and continue to experience, significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected market prices for companies such as ours and that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. the convertible senior note hedge and warrant transactions entered into in connection with the offering of our convertible senior notes may affect the value of the notes and our common stock. in connection with the offering of our convertible senior notes, we entered into convertible senior note hedge transactions which are expected to reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the notes. however, we also entered into warrant transactions which could separately have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the 23 table of contents applicable strike price of the warrants. in addition, the counterparties to the hedge and warrant transactions, and/or their respective affiliates, may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock in secondary market transactions at any time prior to the maturity of the notes (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of notes). this activity could also cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of our common stock or the notes. delaware law, our charter documents and provisions of our debt agreements may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline. we are a delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. our board has the power, without stockholder approval, to adopt a stockholder rights plan and/or to designate the terms of one or more series of preferred stock and issue shares of preferred stock. in addition, we may under certain circumstances involving a change of control, be obligated to repurchase all or a portion of our convertible senior notes and any potential acquirer would be required to assume our obligations related to any outstanding notes. we or any possible acquirer may not have available financial resources necessary to repurchase those notes. the ability of our board to create and issue a new series of preferred stock and certain provisions of delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the indenture governing our notes could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market price of our common stock and the value of any outstanding notes. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 58 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk historically, fluctuations in interest rates have not had a significant impact on our operating results. under our credit agreement, outstanding balances bear interest at our election of (a) 2.00% to 2.50% above a certain base rate with a minimum 6.00% base rate (8.00% at october 31, 2009), or (b) 3.25% to 3.75% above the libor rate with a minimum 4.00% libor rate (7.25% at october 31, 2009), with the margin rate subject to the achievement of certain average liquidity levels. changes in market rates may impact our future interest expense if there is an outstanding balance on our line of credit. the convertible notes pay interest semi-annually at a fixed rate of 4.375% per annum and we expect that there will be no fluctuation related to the convertible notes impacting our current year interest expense. in addition, we amortize debt issuance costs to interest expense. upon adoption of the new accounting guidance for convertible debt arrangements requiring separate accounting for the liability and equity components of convertible debt instruments, we will reclassify a portion of our debt balance to additional paid-in-capital, representing a bifurcation based on the fair value of the embedded conversion option in the convertible notes. the difference between the principal amount of the convertible notes and the remaining liability component after the bifurcation will be reported as a debt discount. we will be required to amortize the debt discount using the interest method, as non-cash interest expense on our statement of operations in addition to the coupon interest on the convertible notes. upon adoption of this guidance on november 1, 2009 we will reclassify $43.6 million of our convertible notes to additional paid-in-capital, representing a bifurcation based on the fair value of the convertible notes' embedded conversion option. as of november 1, 2009 we have begun amortizing the debt discount as non-cash interest expense on our consolidated statement of operations in addition to the convertible notes' coupon interest payments. for additional details of our convertible notes see note 9 to our consolidated financial statements. foreign currency exchange rate risk we transact business in foreign currencies and are exposed to risks resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. accounts relating to foreign operations are translated into united states dollars using prevailing exchange rates at the relevant quarter end. translation adjustments are included as a separate component of stockholders' equity. for the year ended october 31, 2009, our foreign currency translation gain adjustment was approximately $15.7 million. we recognized a foreign exchange transaction gain in interest and other expense, net in our consolidated statement of operations for the year ended october 31, 2009 of $3.7 million and a foreign exchange transaction loss for the year ended october 31, 2008 of $5.1 million. we use forward foreign exchange contracts to mitigate foreign currency risk related to foreign currency transactions. these transactions primarily relate to non-functional currency denominated inter-company funding loans, non-functional currency denominated accounts receivable and non-functional currency denominated accounts payable. we do not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. at october 31, 2009, we had forward contracts outstanding to purchase $30.4 million of foreign currency in exchange for u.s. dollars with a 30 day maturity to november 30, 2009 and recorded a $0.1 million foreign currency transaction loss related to these contracts in interest and other expense, net. for the year ended october 31, 2009, 32.5% of the company's revenue was generated outside the united states. using sensitivity analysis, a hypothetical 10% increase in the value of the u.s. dollar against all currencies would decrease revenues by 3.2%, while a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of the u.s. dollar against all currencies would increase revenues by 3.2%. in the opinion of management, a substantial portion of this fluctuation would be offset by cost of goods sold and operating expenses incurred in local currency. as a result, a hypothetical 10% movement of the value of the u.s. dollar against all currencies in either direction would impact the company's gross margin by 0.6%. 58 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. because of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other factors affecting our operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance and our business and financial performance could be harmed and the market value of our securities could decline. risks relating to our business we are dependent on the future success of our grand theft auto products and we must continue to publish "hit" titles or sequels to such "hit" titles in order to compete successfully in our industry. grand theft auto and certain of our other titles are "hit" products and have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our revenue. if we fail to continue to develop and sell new commercially successful "hit" titles or sequels to such "hit" titles or experience any delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our "hit" titles or their sequels, our revenue and profits may decrease substantially and we may incur losses. in addition, competition in our industry is intense and a relatively small number of hit titles account for a large portion of total revenue in our industry. hit products offered by our competitors may take a larger share of consumer spending than we anticipate, which could cause revenue generated from our products to fall below our expectations. if our competitors develop more successful products or services at lower price points or based on payment models perceived as offering better value (such as pay-for-play or subscription-based models), or if we do not continue to develop consistently high quality and well-received products and services, our revenue and profitability may decline. we are subject to product development risks which could result in delays and additional costs, and we must adapt to changes in software technologies. we depend on our internal development studios and third party software developers to develop new interactive entertainment software within anticipated release schedules and cost projections. the development cycle for new titles generally ranges from 12 to more than 24 months, and our top-selling titles could take up to three years or longer to develop. development times and costs of current generation software have increased substantially as a result of the additional and enhanced features available in the newest games. further, after development of a product it may take between 9 and 12 additional months to develop the product for other hardware platforms. if our third party software developers experience unanticipated development delays, financial difficulties or additional costs we will not be able to release titles according to our schedule and at budgeted costs. certain of our licensing and marketing agreements also contain provisions that would impose penalties if we fail to meet agreed upon game release dates. there can be no assurance that our products will be sufficiently successful so that we can recoup these costs or make a profit on these products. additionally, in order to stay competitive, our internal development studios must anticipate and adapt to rapid technological changes affecting software development. any inability to respond to technological advances and implement new technologies could render our products obsolete or less marketable. the market for our titles is characterized by short product life cycles. the inability of our products to achieve significant market acceptance, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our products may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. the market for video games is characterized by short product lives and frequent introductions of new products. new products may not achieve significant market acceptance, generate sufficient sales or be introduced in a timely manner to permit us to recover development, manufacturing and marketing costs associated with these products. the life cycle of a title generally involves a relatively high level of sales 11 table of contents during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. because revenue associated with an initial product launch generally constitutes a high percentage of the total revenue associated with the life of a product, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of one or more new products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cause our operating results to be materially different from our expectations. our business is subject to the continued popularity of current generation video game platforms and our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. we derive most of our revenue from the sale of products for play on video game platforms manufactured by third parties, such as sony's ps3 and psp, microsoft's xbox 360 and nintendo's wii and ds. the success of our business is subject to the continued popularity of these platforms and our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. if the average price of our prior generation software titles continues to decline or if we are unable to sustain launch pricing on current generation titles, our operating results may suffer. the interactive entertainment software and hardware industry is characterized by the introduction of new and enhanced generations of products and evolving industry standards. current generation titles for the ps3, xbox 360 and wii have been offered at premium retail prices since the launch of such consoles. we expect to continue to price current generation titles at a premium level. however, circumstances may arise in which we may need to reduce prices for such titles. for example, the current economic downturn has reduced consumer demand and some of our competitors have temporarily dropped and may continue to drop the pricing of their games for promotional purposes. in addition, retailers have been increasingly funding their own promotional pricing programs. continued promotional pricing could require us to reduce prices on our current generation titles. if we are unable to sustain launch pricing on these current generation titles, it will have a material adverse effect on our margins, profitability and operating results. consumer demand for software for prior generation platforms has declined as newer and more advanced hardware platforms achieve market acceptance. consequently, pricing for prior generation titles across the industry has declined and we expect it to continue to decline. furthermore, prior generation titles may be subject to price reductions earlier in their product life cycles than we experienced in prior years. as a result, we have reduced prices for our prior generation software titles and we expect to continue to reduce prices for such software titles, which will have a negative impact on our operating results. these changes may cause the value of our inventory to decline substantially or to become obsolete. we depend on our key management and product development personnel. our continued success will depend to a significant extent on our senior management team and our relationship with zelnickmedia corporation ("zelnickmedia"). our executive chairman, chief executive officer and chief operating officer are partners of zelnickmedia. we are also highly dependent on the expertise, skills and knowledge of certain of our rockstar employees responsible for content creation and development of our grand theft auto titles and titles based on other brands. although we entered into employment agreements with members of the creative team of our rockstar games publishing label, we may not be able to continue to retain these personnel at current compensation levels, or at all. the loss of the services of our executive officers, zelnickmedia or our key rockstar employees could significantly harm our business. in addition, if one or more key employees were to join a competitor or form a competing company, we may lose additional personnel, experience material interruptions in product development, delays in bringing products to market and difficulties in our relationships with licensors, suppliers and customers, which would significantly harm our business. failure to continue to attract and retain other qualified management and creative personnel could adversely affect our business and prospects. 12 table of contents the recent decline in consumer spending and other adverse changes in the economy have negatively affected our business and any further declines in consumer spending or other adverse changes in the economy could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. most of our products involve discretionary spending on the part of consumers. we believe that consumer spending is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. this makes our products particularly sensitive to general economic conditions and economic cycles as consumers are generally more willing to make discretionary purchases, including purchases of products like ours, during periods in which favorable economic conditions prevail. as a result of the current national and global economic downturn, overall consumer spending has declined and retailers globally have taken a more conservative stance in ordering game inventory. continued adverse economic conditions such as a prolonged u.s. or international general economic downturn, including periods of increased inflation, unemployment levels, tax rates, interest rates, energy prices or declining consumer confidence could also reduce consumer spending. reduced consumer spending has and may continue to result in reduced demand for our products and may also require increased selling and promotional expenses, which has had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. furthermore, uncertainty and adverse changes in the economy could also increase the risk of material losses on our investments, increase costs associated with developing and publishing our products, increase the cost and availability of sources of financing, and increase our exposure to material losses from bad debts, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. if economic conditions worsen, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. our quarterly operating results are dependent on the release of "hit" titles and are highly seasonal which may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate significantly. we have experienced and may continue to experience wide fluctuations in quarterly operating results. the release of a "hit" title typically leads to a high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. in addition, the interactive entertainment industry is highly seasonal, with sales typically higher during the fourth calendar quarter, due primarily to increased demand for games during the holiday season. demand for and sales of our sports titles are also seasonal in that they are typically released just prior to the start of the sport season which they depict. our failure or inability to produce "hit" titles or introduce products on a timely basis to meet seasonal fluctuations in demand could adversely affect our business and operating results. the uncertainties associated with software development, manufacturing lead times, production delays and the approval process for products by hardware manufacturers and other licensors make it difficult to predict the quarter in which our products will ship and therefore may cause us to fail to meet financial expectations. we may not be able to adequately adjust our cost structure in a timely fashion in response to a sudden decrease in demand. a significant portion of our selling and general and administrative expense is attributable to expenses for personnel and facilities. in the event of a significant decline in revenue, we may not be able to dispose of facilities, reduce personnel or make other changes to our cost structure without disruption to our operations or without significant termination and exit costs. management may not be able to implement such actions in a timely manner, if at all, to offset an immediate shortfall in revenue and profit. moreover, reducing costs may impair our ability to produce and develop software titles at sufficient levels in the future. 13 table of contents returns of our published titles by our customers and price concessions granted to our customers may adversely affect our operating results. we are exposed to the risk of product returns and price concessions with respect to our customers. our distribution arrangements with customers generally do not give them the right to return titles to us or to cancel firm orders. however, we sometimes accept product returns from our distribution customers for stock balancing and negotiate accommodations for customers, which include credits and returns, when demand for specific products falls below expectations. we accept returns and grant price concessions in connection with our publishing arrangements and revenue is recognized after deducting estimated reserves for returns and price concessions. while we believe that we can reliably estimate future returns and price concessions, if return rates and price concessions for our products exceed our reserves, our revenue could decline. increased sales of used video game products could lower our sales. certain of our larger customers sell used video games, which are generally priced lower than new video games. if our customers continue to increase their sales of used video games, it could negatively affect our sales of new video games and have an adverse impact on our operating results. a limited number of customers account for a significant portion of our sales. the loss of a principal customer could seriously hurt our business. a substantial portion of our product sales are made to a limited number of customers. our sales are made primarily pursuant to purchase orders without long-term agreements or other commitments, and our customers may terminate their relationship with us at any time. certain of our customers may decline to carry products containing mature content. the loss of our relationships with principal customers or a decline in sales to principal customers, including as a result of a product being rated "ao" (age 18 and over), could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. furthermore, our customers may also be placed into bankruptcy, become insolvent or be liquidated due to the current economic downturn, the global contraction of credit or for other factors. bankruptcies or consolidations of certain large retail customers could seriously hurt our business, including as a result of uncollectible accounts receivable from such customers and the concentration of purchasing power among remaining large retailers. if our marketing and advertising efforts fail to resonate with our customers, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. our products are marketed worldwide through a diverse spectrum of advertising and promotional programs such as television and online advertising, print advertising, retail merchandising, website development and event sponsorship. our ability to sell our products and services is dependent in part on the success of these programs. if the marketing for our products and services fails to resonate with our customers, particularly during the holiday season or other key selling periods, or if advertising rates or other media placement costs increase, these factors could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. we rely on a primary distribution service provider for a significant portion of our products and the failure of this service provider to perform as expected could harm our operating results. we sell our products to our customers in the united states primarily through a distribution service provider, ditan distribution, llc ("ditan"). ditan provides shipping, receiving, warehouse management and related functions. if ditan does not perform these services in a satisfactory manner, or if we desire or are required to replace ditan as our primary distributor and are unable to do so, our sales and operating results could suffer. 14 table of contents the interactive entertainment software industry is highly competitive. we compete for both licenses to properties and the sale of interactive entertainment software with sony, microsoft and nintendo, each of which is a large developer and marketer of software for its own platforms. we also compete with domestic game publishers, such as electronic arts, activision blizzard and thq and international publishers, such as capcom, square enix, konami, namco-bandai, sega and ubisoft. as our business is dependent upon our ability to develop hit titles, which require increasing budgets for development and marketing, the availability of significant financial resources has become a major competitive factor in developing and marketing software games. some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, personnel and other resources than we do and are able to finance larger budgets for development and marketing and make higher offers to licensors and developers for commercially desirable properties. our titles also compete with other forms of entertainment, such as motion pictures, television and audio and video products featuring similar themes, online computer programs and other entertainment, which may be less expensive or provide other advantages to consumers. a number of software publishers who compete with us have developed and commercialized or are currently developing online games for use by consumers over the internet. if technological advances significantly increase the availability of online games and if consumer acceptance of online gaming grows substantially, it could result in a decline in our platform-based software sales and negatively impact sales of our products. increased competition for limited shelf space and promotional support from retailers could affect the success of our business and require us to incur greater expenses to market our titles. retailers have limited shelf space and promotional resources and competition is intense among newly introduced interactive entertainment software titles for adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support. competition for retail shelf space is expected to increase, which may require us to increase our marketing expenditures to maintain desirable sales levels of our titles. competitors with more extensive lines and more popular titles may have greater bargaining power with retailers. accordingly, we may not be able, or we may have to pay more than our competitors, to achieve similar levels of promotional support and shelf space. our business is dependent on our ability to enter into successful software development arrangements with third parties. our success depends on our ability to continually identify and develop new titles on a timely basis. we rely on third party software developers for the development of some of our titles. quality third party developers are continually in high demand. software developers who have developed titles for us in the past may not be available to develop software for us in the future. due to the limited number of third party software developers and the limited control that we exercise over them, these developers may not be able to complete titles for us on a timely basis or within acceptable quality standards, if at all. we have entered into agreements with third parties to acquire the rights to publish and distribute interactive entertainment software as well as to use licensed intellectual properties in our titles. these agreements typically require us to make development payments, pay royalties and satisfy other conditions. our development payments may not be sufficient to permit developers to develop new software successfully, which could result in material delays and significantly increase our costs to bring particular products to market. software development costs, promotion and marketing expenses and royalties payable to software developers and third party licensors have increased significantly in recent years and reduce potential profits derived from sales of our software. future sales of our titles may not be sufficient to recover development payments and advances to software developers and licensors, and we may not have adequate financial and other resources to satisfy our contractual commitments to such developers. if we fail to satisfy our obligations under agreements with third party developers and licensors, the agreements may be terminated or 15 table of contents modified in ways that are burdensome to us, and have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and operating results. we cannot publish our titles without the approval of hardware licensors that are also our competitors. we are required to obtain licenses from sony, microsoft and nintendo, which are also our competitors, to develop and publish titles for their respective hardware platforms. our existing platform licenses require that we obtain approval for the publication of new titles on a title-by-title basis. as a result, the number of titles we are able to publish for these hardware platforms, our ability to manage the timing of the release of these titles and, accordingly, our net revenue from titles for these hardware platforms, may be limited. if a licensor chooses not to renew or extend our license agreement at the end of its current term, or if a licensor were to terminate our license for any reason or does not approve one or more of our titles, we may be unable to publish that title as well as additional titles for that licensor's platform. termination of any such agreements or disapproval of titles could seriously hurt our business and prospects. we may be unable to continue to enter into license agreements for certain current generation platforms on satisfactory terms or at all. failure to enter into any such agreement could also seriously hurt our business. our platform licensors control the fee structures for online distribution of our games on their platforms. certain platform licensors have retained the right to change the fee structures for online distribution of both paid content and free content (including patches and corrections) on their platforms. each licensor's ability to set royalty rates makes it difficult for us to forecast our costs. increased costs could negatively impact our operating margins. we may be unable to distribute our content in a cost-effective or profitable manner through this distribution channel, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. we submit our products for rating by the entertainment software rating board ("esrb") in the united states and other voluntary or government ratings organizations in foreign countries. failure to obtain a target rating for certain of our products could negatively impact our ability to distribute and sell those games, as could the re-rating of a game for any reason. we voluntarily submit our game products to the esrb, a u.s.-based non-profit and independent ratings organization. the esrb system provides consumers with information about game content using a rating symbol that generally suggests the appropriate player age group and specific content descriptors, such as graphic violence, profanity or sexually explicit material. the esrb may impose significant penalties on game publishers for violations of its rules related to rating or marketing games, including revocation of a rating or monetary fines up to $1 million. other countries require voluntary or government backed ratings as prerequisites for product sales. in some instances, we may have to modify our products in order to market them under the target rating, which could delay or disrupt the release of our products. in addition, some of our titles may not be sold at all or without extensive edits in certain countries, such as germany. in the united states, if the esrb rates a game as "ao" (age 18 and older), platform licensors may not certify the game and retailers may refuse to sell it. in addition, some consumers have reacted to re-ratings or controversial game content by refusing to purchase such games, demanding refunds for games that they had already purchased, and refraining from buying other games published by us. many of our rockstar titles and certain of our 2k games titles have been rated "m" (age 17 and older) by the esrb. if we are unable to obtain "m" ratings and instead receive "ao" ratings on future versions of those or similar titles as a result of changes in the esrb's ratings standards or for other reasons, including the adoption of legislation in this area, our business and prospects could be negatively affected. if any of our games are re-rated by the esrb or other foreign based ratings organizations, we could be exposed to litigation, administrative fines and penalties and other potential liabilities, and our operating results and financial condition could be significantly impacted. 16 table of contents we have implemented processes to comply with the requirements of the esrb and other ratings organizations and properly display the designated rating symbols and content descriptions. nonetheless, these processes are subject to human error, circumvention, overriding and reasonable resource constraints. if a video game we published were found to contain undisclosed pertinent content, the esrb could re-rate a game, retailers could refuse to sell it and demand that we accept the return of any unsold copies or returns from customers, and consumers could refuse to buy it or demand that we refund their money. this could have a material negative impact on our operating results and financial condition. in addition, we may be exposed to litigation, administrative fines and penalties and our reputation could be harmed, which could impact sales of other video games we sell. if any of these consequences were to occur, our business and financial performance could be significantly harmed. content policies adopted by retailers, consumer opposition and litigation could negatively impact sales of our products. retailers may decline to sell interactive entertainment software containing what they judge to be graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other content that they deem inappropriate for their businesses. if retailers decline to sell our products based upon their opinion that they contain objectionable themes, graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other generally objectionable content, or if any of our previously "m" rated series products are rated "ao," we might be required to significantly change or discontinue particular titles or series, which in the case of our best selling grand theft auto titles could seriously affect our business. consumer advocacy groups have opposed sales of interactive entertainment software containing objectionable themes, violence or sexual material or other objectionable content by pressing for legislation in these areas and by engaging in public demonstrations and media campaigns. additionally, although lawsuits seeking damages for injuries allegedly suffered by third parties as a result of video games have generally been unsuccessful in the courts, claims of this kind have been asserted against us from time to time and may be asserted and be successful in the future. our business and products are subject to potential legislation. the adoption of such proposed legislation could limit the retail market for our products. several proposals have been made for federal legislation to regulate our industry. such proposals seek to prohibit the sale of products containing content included in some of our games. if any such proposals are enacted into law, it may limit the potential market for some of our games in the united states, and adversely affect our operating results. other countries, such as germany, have adopted laws regulating content both in packaged games and those transmitted over the internet that are stricter than current united states laws. in the united states, proposals have also been made by numerous state legislators to regulate and prohibit the sale of interactive entertainment software products containing certain types of violent or sexual content to under 17 or 18 audiences. while such legislation to date has been enjoined by industry and retail groups, the adoption into law of such legislation in federal and/or in state jurisdictions in which we do significant business could severely limit the retail market for some of our games. we may need to raise additional capital if we continue to incur losses. we incurred losses during the five months ended march 31, 2010 and fiscal year ended october 31, 2009, and we may continue to incur losses. if we incur losses in the future, we may be required to raise additional capital in order to fund our operations. we could seek to raise capital in a number of ways, including through the issuance of debt or equity, or through other financing arrangements. during the fiscal year ended october 31, 2007, we entered into a senior secured line of credit agreement (and expanded the line of credit in november 2007), which requires us to make periodic interest or other debt service payments. in addition, during the fiscal year ended october 31, 2009 we issued convertible senior notes, which require us to make periodic interest payments to the holders of the convertible senior notes. if we borrow additional funds, further debt service payments would probably be necessary. in addition, the terms of 17 table of contents additional debt may impose significant restrictions on our ability to operate our business. if we seek financing through the sale of equity or equity-based securities (such as our convertible senior notes), our current stockholders will suffer dilution in their percentage ownership of common stock. we cannot be certain as to our ability to raise additional capital in the future or under what terms capital would be available, particularly in light of the current economic downturn which has, among other consequences, led to the depression of stock prices and the tightening of credit. if we need to raise capital and are not successful in doing so, we will have to consider other options that may include, but are not limited to, a reduction in our expenditures for internal and external new product development, reductions in overhead expenses, and sales of intellectual property and other assets. these actions, should they become necessary, will likely result in a reduction in the size of our operations and could materially affect the prospects of our business. continued turmoil in the credit markets may affect our ability to raise additional capital. ongoing turmoil in the credit markets may make it difficult for us to obtain financing, on acceptable terms or at all, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other investments. liquidity in credit markets has contracted significantly, making terms for certain financings less attractive. these difficulties could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. we are subject to risks and uncertainties of international trade, including fluctuations in the values of local foreign currencies against the dollar. sales in international markets, primarily in europe, have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenue. we have also recently expanded our asian operations in an effort to increase our geographical scope and diversify our revenue base. we are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased credit risks, tariffs and duties, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, shipping delays, and international political, regulatory and economic developments, all of which can have a significant impact on our operating results. all of our international sales are made in local currencies, which could fluctuate against the dollar. while we may use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our operating results could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. we face risks from our international operations. we are subject to certain risks because of our international operations, particularly as we seek to grow our business and presence outside of the united states. changes to and compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations may increase our cost of doing business and our inability or failure to obtain required approvals could harm our international and domestic sales. trade legislation in either the united states or other countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, import/export compliance laws or other trade laws or policies, could adversely affect our ability to sell or to distribute in international markets. we incur additional legal compliance costs associated with our international operations and could become subject to legal penalties in foreign countries if we do not comply with local laws and regulations which may be substantially different from those in the united states. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by united states laws and regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, and by local laws, such as laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials. although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, including those based in or from countries where practices which violate such laws may be customary, will not take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 18 table of contents if we are unable to protect the intellectual property relating to our software, the commercial value of our products will be adversely affected and our competitive position could be harmed. we develop proprietary software and have obtained the rights to publish and distribute software developed by third parties. we attempt to protect our software and production techniques under copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as well as through contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and distribution. our software is susceptible to piracy and unauthorized copying. unauthorized third parties may be able to copy or to reverse engineer our software to obtain and use programming or production techniques that we regard as proprietary. well organized piracy operations have also proliferated in recent years, resulting in the ability to download pirated copies of our software over the internet. although we attempt to incorporate protective measures into our software, piracy of our products could negatively impact our future profitability. if we infringe on or are alleged to infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, our business could be adversely affected. with advances in technology, game content and software graphics are expected to continue to become more realistic. as a result, we believe that interactive entertainment software will increasingly become the subject of claims that such software infringes on the intellectual property rights of others. from time to time, we receive notices from third parties or are named in lawsuits by third parties alleging infringement of their proprietary rights. although we believe that our software and technologies and the software and technologies of third party developers and publishers with whom we have contractual relations do not and will not infringe or violate proprietary rights of others, it is possible that infringement of proprietary rights of others may occur. any claims of infringement, with or without merit, could be time consuming, costly and difficult to defend. moreover, intellectual property litigation or claims could require us to discontinue the distribution of products, obtain a license or redesign our products, which could result in additional substantial costs and material delays. data breaches involving the source code for our products could adversely affect our revenues. we securely store the source code for our interactive entertainment software products as it is created. a breach, whether physical, electronic or otherwise, of the systems on which such source code and other sensitive data is stored could lead to damage or piracy of our software. if we are subject to data security breaches, we may have a loss in sales or increased costs arising from the restoration or implementation of additional security measures which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. our software is susceptible to errors, which can harm our financial results and reputation. the technological advancements of new hardware platforms result in the development of more complex software products. as software products become more complex, the risk of undetected errors in new products increases. we may need to produce and distribute patches in order to repair such errors, which could be costly and may distract our developers from working on new products. if, despite testing, errors are found in new products or releases after shipments have been made, we could experience a loss of or delay in timely market acceptance, product returns, loss of revenue, increases in costs relating to the repair of such errors and damage to our reputation. if we acquire or invest in other businesses, intellectual properties or other assets, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired and/or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for such transactions. if appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may acquire or make investments in businesses, intellectual properties and other assets that we believe are strategic. we may not be able to identify, negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment successfully. even if we do succeed in acquiring 19 table of contents or investing in a business, intellectual property or other asset, such acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including: retaining key employees and maintaining the key business and customer relationships of the businesses we acquire; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from an acquired company or business into our organization; the possibility that the combined company would not achieve the expected benefits, including any anticipated operating and product synergies, of the acquisition as quickly as anticipated or that the costs of, or operational difficulties arising from, an acquisition would be greater than anticipated; significant acquisition-related accounting adjustments, particularly relating to an acquired company's deferred revenue, that may cause reported revenue and profits of the combined company to be lower than the sum of their stand-alone revenue and profits; significant accounting charges resulting from the completion and integration of a sizeable acquisition and increased capital expenditures, including potential impairment charges incurred to write down the carrying amount of intangible assets generated as a result of an acquisition; the possibility that we will not discover important facts during due diligence that could have a material adverse impact on the value of the businesses we acquire, including the possibility that a change of control of a company we acquire triggers a termination of contractual or intellectual property rights important to the operation of its business; the need to integrate an acquired company's accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management and timely reporting, and the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company in an acquired company that, prior to the acquisition, lacked these controls, procedures and policies; litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risks as a result of, an acquisition, including claims from terminated employees, customers or other third parties; and to the extent that we engage in strategic transactions outside of the united states, we face additional risks, including risks related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. future acquisitions and investments could also involve the issuance of our equity and equity-linked securities (potentially diluting our existing stockholders), the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, write-offs of goodwill, intangibles, or acquired in-process technology, or other increased cash and non-cash expenses such as stock- based compensation. any of the foregoing factors could harm our financial condition or prevent us from achieving improvements in our financial condition and operating performance that could have otherwise been achieved by us on a stand-alone basis. our stockholders may not have the opportunity to review, vote on or evaluate future acquisitions or investments. our ability to acquire licenses to intellectual property, especially for sports titles, impacts our revenue and profitability. competition for these licenses may make them more expensive and increase our costs. many of our products are based on or incorporate intellectual property owned by others. for example, our 2k sports products include rights licensed from major sports leagues and players' associations. similarly, some of our other titles are based on licenses of popular entertainment products. competition for these licenses is intense. if we are unable to maintain these licenses or obtain additional licenses on reasonable 20 table of contents economic terms or with significant commercial value, our revenue and profitability could decline significantly. competition for these licenses may also increase the advances, guarantees and royalties that we must pay to the licensor, which could significantly increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability. in addition, on certain intellectual property licenses, we are subject to guaranteed minimum payments, royalties or standards of performance and may not be able to terminate these agreements prior to their stated expiration. if such licensed products do not generate revenues in excess of such minimum guarantees, our profitability will be adversely impacted. we are subject to contractual covenants which place certain limitations on how we manage our business . our credit agreement and the indenture governing our convertible senior notes limit our ability to take various actions, including incurring additional debt, paying dividends, repurchasing shares and acquiring or disposing of assets or businesses. in addition, we have granted a security interest in connection with certain compensatory arrangements which limits our ability to incur senior debt in excess of certain amounts. accordingly, we may be restricted from taking actions that management believes would be desirable and in the best interests of us and our stockholders. our credit agreement and the indenture also require us to satisfy specified financial and non-financial covenants. a breach of any of the covenants contained in our credit agreement could result in an event of default under the agreement and under the indenture governing our convertible senior notes and would allow our lenders and noteholders to pursue various remedies, including accelerating the repayment of any outstanding indebtedness. our involvement, and the involvement of some of our former executive officers, in a wide variety of lawsuits, investigations and proceedings has had, and may in the future have, a material adverse effect on us. we and some of our former officers, directors and employees have recently been the subject of three separate governmental investigations and a substantial amount of litigation and other proceedings relating to the subject matter of those investigations. while most of these matters have been resolved, several remain outstanding. see "item 3. legal proceedings." these investigations, litigation and other proceedings have imposed significant costs on us, including professional fees, penalties and settlement costs, and the diversion of the time and attention of our management team. even if resolved favorably, the remaining litigation could continue to be time consuming and result in additional costs of the kind described above, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. we also may be subject to heightened scrutiny in the future as a result of our historical legal proceedings, including an increased likelihood of a government investigation occurring and an increased likelihood that any such investigation is more extensive than in the past. furthermore, any future fines, restrictions or other penalties imposed as a result of any such investigation may be more severe than those which may be imposed on a company without our history. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill becomes impaired. we are required under generally accepted accounting principles to review our goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating a requirement to reevaluate whether our goodwill continues to be recoverable, include a significant decline in stock price and market capitalization, slower growth rates in our industry or other materially adverse events. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill is determined. this may adversely impact our operating results. 21 table of contents our reported financial results could be adversely affected by the application of existing or future accounting standards to our business as it evolves. the frequency of accounting policy changes may continue to accelerate. for example, standards regarding software revenue recognition have and could further significantly affect the way we account for revenue related to our products and services. we expect that a significant portion of our games will be online- enabled in the future, and we could be required to recognize the related revenue over an extended period of time rather than at the time of sale. as we enhance, expand and diversify our business and product offerings, the application of existing or future financial accounting standards, particularly those relating to the way we account for revenue, could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results although not necessarily on our cash flows. risks relating to our common stock for purposes of this section " risks relating to our common stock," references to "the company," "we," "our," and "us" refer only to take-two interactive software, inc. and not to its subsidiaries. additional issuances of equity securities by us would dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders. we may issue equity or equity-based securities (such as our convertible senior notes) in the future in connection with acquisitions or strategic transactions, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, including through repayment of outstanding debt, to fund expansion of our operations or for other purposes. to the extent we issue additional equity securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders would be reduced. future sales or other issuances of our common stock could adversely affect its market price. the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely impact its price. the sale or the availability for sale of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause the price of our common stock to decline. the issuance of shares of our common stock upon conversion of our convertible senior notes could also adversely affect the price of our common stock. our stock price has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate significantly. the market price of our common stock historically has been, and we expect will continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations. these fluctuations may be due to factors specific to us including those discussed in the risk factors in this section as well as others not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material, to changes in securities analysts' earnings estimates or ratings, to our results or future financial guidance falling below our expectations and analysts' and investors' expectations, to factors affecting the computer, software, entertainment, media or electronics industries, or to national or international economic conditions. stock markets, in general, have experienced over the years, and continue to experience, significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected market prices for companies such as ours and that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. the convertible senior note hedge and warrant transactions entered into in connection with the offering of our convertible senior notes may affect the value of the notes and our common stock. in connection with the offering of our convertible senior notes, we entered into convertible senior note hedge transactions which are expected to reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the notes. however, we also entered into warrant transactions which could separately have a dilutive effect on our 22 table of contents earnings per share to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants. in addition, the counterparties to the hedge and warrant transactions, and/or their respective affiliates, may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock in secondary market transactions at any time prior to the maturity of the notes (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of notes). this activity could also cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of our common stock or the notes. delaware law, our charter documents and provisions of our debt agreements may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline. we are a delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. our board has the power, without stockholder approval, to adopt a stockholder rights plan and/or to designate the terms of one or more series of preferred stock and issue shares of preferred stock. in addition, we may under certain circumstances involving a change of control, be obligated to repurchase all or a portion of our convertible senior notes and any potential acquirer would be required to assume our obligations related to any outstanding notes. we or any possible acquirer may not have available financial resources necessary to repurchase those notes. the ability of our board to create and issue a new series of preferred stock and certain provisions of delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the indenture governing our notes could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market price of our common stock and the value of any outstanding notes. our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to reduce future years' taxes could be substantially limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in the internal revenue code. section 382 of the internal revenue code contains rules that limit the ability of a company to use its net operating loss carryforwards in years after an ownership change, which is generally defined as any change in ownership of more than 50% of its stock over a three-year testing period. these rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes among stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of the stock of a company and/or any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by the company. if, as a result of future transactions involving our common stock, including purchases or sales of stock by 5% stockholders, we undergo cumulative ownership changes which exceed 50% over the testing period, our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards would be subject to additional limitations under section 382. generally, if an ownership change occurs, the annual taxable income limitation on the use of net operating loss carryforwards is equal to the product of the applicable long-term tax exempt rate and the value of the company's stock immediately before the ownership change. depending on the resulting limitation, a portion of our net operating loss carryforwards could expire before we would be able to use them. our inability to fully utilize our net operating losses to offset taxable income generated in the future could have a material and negative impact on our future financial position and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk historically, fluctuations in interest rates have not had a significant impact on our operating results. under our credit agreement, outstanding balances bear interest at our election of (a) 2.00% to 2.50% above a certain base rate with a minimum 6.00% base rate (8.00% at march 31, 2010), or (b) 3.25% to 3.75% above the libor rate with a minimum 4.00% libor rate (7.25% at march 31, 2010), with the margin rate subject to the achievement of certain average liquidity levels. changes in market rates may impact our future interest expense if there is an outstanding balance on our line of credit. the convertible notes pay interest semi-annually at a fixed rate of 4.375% per annum and we expect that there will be no fluctuation related to the convertible notes impacting our cash component of interest expense. for additional details on our convertible notes see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. foreign currency exchange rate risk we transact business in foreign currencies and are exposed to risks resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. accounts relating to foreign operations are translated into united states dollars using prevailing exchange rates at the relevant period end. translation adjustments are included as a separate component of stockholders' equity. for the five months ended march 31, 2010, our foreign currency translation loss adjustment was approximately $11.9 million. we recognized a foreign exchange transaction loss in interest and other, net in our consolidated statements of operations for the five months ended march 31, 2010 and fiscal year ended october 31, 2008 of $0.7 million and $5.0 million, respectively, and a foreign exchange transaction gain for the five months ended march 31, 2009 and fiscal year ended october 31, 2009 of $4.2 million and $4.3 million, respectively. we use forward foreign exchange contracts to mitigate foreign currency risk related to foreign currency transactions. these transactions primarily relate to non-functional currency denominated inter-company 59 table of contents funding loans, non-functional currency denominated accounts receivable and non-functional currency denominated accounts payable. we do not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. at march 31, 2010, we had forward contracts outstanding to purchase $19.2 million of foreign currency in exchange for u.s. dollars and $17.6 million of u.s. dollars in exchange for foreign currencies with a maturity of less than one year. for the five months ended march 31, 2010 we recorded a $2.3 million loss related to foreign currency forward contracts in interest and other, net on the consolidated statements of operations. for the five months ended march 31, 2010, 34.1% of the company's revenue was generated outside the united states. using sensitivity analysis, a hypothetical 10% increase in the value of the u.s. dollar against all currencies would decrease revenues by 3.4%, while a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of the u.s. dollar against all currencies would increase revenues by 3.4%. in the opinion of management, a substantial portion of this fluctuation would be offset by cost of goods sold and operating expenses incurred in local currency.risk factors 10 risk factors our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. because of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other factors affecting our operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance and our business and financial performance could be harmed and the market value of our securities could decline. risks relating to our business we are dependent on the future success of our grand theft auto products and we must continue to publish "hit" titles or sequels to such "hit" titles in order to compete successfully in our industry. grand theft auto and certain of our other titles are "hit" products and have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our revenue. if we fail to continue to develop and sell new commercially successful "hit" titles or sequels to such "hit" titles or experience any delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our "hit" titles or their sequels, our revenue and profits may decrease substantially and we may incur losses. in addition, competition in our industry is intense and a relatively small number of hit titles account for a large portion of total revenue in our industry. hit products offered by our competitors may take a larger share of consumer spending than we anticipate, which could cause revenue generated from our products to fall below our expectations. if our competitors develop more successful products or services at lower price points or based on payment models perceived as offering better value (such as pay-for-play or subscription-based models), or if we do not continue to develop consistently high quality and well-received products and services, our revenue and profitability may decline. we are subject to product development risks which could result in delays and additional costs, and we must adapt to changes in software technologies. we depend on our internal development studios and third-party software developers to develop new interactive entertainment software within anticipated release schedules and cost projections. the development cycle for new titles generally ranges from 12 to more than 24 months, and our top-selling titles could take up to 3 years or longer to develop. development times and costs of current generation software have increased substantially as a result of the additional and enhanced features available in the newest games. further, after development of a product it may take between 9 and 12 additional months to develop the product for other hardware platforms. if our third-party software developers experience unanticipated development delays, financial difficulties or additional costs we will not be able to release titles according to our schedule and at budgeted costs. certain of our licensing and marketing agreements also contain provisions that would impose penalties if we fail to meet agreed upon game release dates. there can be no assurance that our products will be sufficiently successful so that we can recoup these costs or make a profit on these products. additionally, in order to stay competitive, our internal development studios must anticipate and adapt to rapid technological changes affecting software development. any inability to respond to technological advances and implement new technologies could render our products obsolete or less marketable. the inability of our products to achieve significant market acceptance, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our products may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. new products may not achieve significant market acceptance, generate sufficient sales or be introduced in a timely manner to permit us to recover development, manufacturing and marketing costs associated with these products. the life cycle of a title generally involves a relatively high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. because revenue associated with an initial 10 table of contents product launch generally constitutes a high percentage of the total revenue associated with the life of a product, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of one or more new products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cause our operating results to be materially different from our expectations. our business is subject to the continued popularity of current generation video game platforms; our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms; and the continued operation and security of the online networks for these platforms. we derive most of our revenue from the sale of products for play on video game platforms manufactured by third parties, such as sony's ps3 and psp, microsoft's xbox 360 and nintendo's wii and ds. the success of our business is subject to the continued popularity of these platforms and our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. certain of our products are online-enabled. the ability of our products to offer online functionality, and our ability to offer content through a video game platform's digital distribution channel, is dependent upon the continued operation and security of such platform's online network. these third-party networks, as well as our own internal systems and websites, and the security measures related thereto may be breached as a result of third-party action, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and result in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our customers' data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information, or our information technology systems. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. if an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, we may lose business, suffer irreparable damage to our reputation, and/or incur significant costs and expenses relating to the investigation and possible litigation of claims relating to such event. we may be liable in such event for damages, penalties for violation of applicable laws or regulations and costs for remediation and efforts to prevent future occurrences, any of which liabilities could be significant. any theft and/or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an event could adversely affect our competitive position, reputation, brand and future sales of our products. our business could be subject to significant disruption, and we could suffer monetary and other losses and reputational harm, in the event of such incidents and claims. if we are unable to sustain launch pricing on current generation titles, our operating results may suffer. the interactive entertainment software and hardware industry is characterized by the introduction of new and enhanced generations of products and evolving industry standards. current generation titles for the ps3, xbox 360 and wii have been offered at premium retail prices since the launch of such consoles. we expect to continue to price current generation titles at a premium level. however, circumstances may arise in which we may need to reduce prices for such titles. if we are unable to sustain launch pricing on these current generation titles, it will have a material adverse effect on our margins, profitability and operating results. a lockout by nba owners or a strike by nba players could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. the nba players union and the owners of the nba teams are currently renegotiating their collective bargaining agreement, which is set to expire following the 2010 - 2011 basketball season. sales of 2k's annually released basketball game could be adversely affected in the event that the players are locked out or go on strike. 11 table of contents we depend on our key management and product development personnel. our continued success will depend to a significant extent on our senior management team and our relationship with zelnickmedia corporation ("zelnickmedia"). our executive chairman and chief executive officer and chief operating officer are partners of zelnickmedia. we are also highly dependent on the expertise, skills and knowledge of certain of our rockstar employees responsible for content creation and development of our grand theft auto titles and titles based on other brands. although we entered into employment agreements with members of the creative team of our rockstar games publishing label, we may not be able to continue to retain these personnel at current compensation levels, or at all. the loss of the services of our executive officers, zelnickmedia or our key rockstar employees could significantly harm our business. in addition, if one or more key employees were to join a competitor or form a competing company, we may lose additional personnel, experience material interruptions in product development, delays in bringing products to market and difficulties in our relationships with licensors, suppliers and customers, which would significantly harm our business. failure to continue to attract and retain other qualified management and creative personnel could adversely affect our business and prospects. declines in consumer spending and other adverse changes in the economy could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. most of our products involve discretionary spending on the part of consumers. we believe that consumer spending is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. this makes our products particularly sensitive to general economic conditions and economic cycles as consumers are generally more willing to make discretionary purchases, including purchases of products like ours, during periods in which favorable economic conditions prevail. adverse economic conditions such as a prolonged u.s. or international general economic downturn, including periods of increased inflation, unemployment levels, tax rates, interest rates, energy prices or declining consumer confidence could also reduce consumer spending. reduced consumer spending has and may continue to result in reduced demand for our products and may also require increased selling and promotional expenses, which has had and may continue to have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. furthermore, uncertainty and adverse changes in the economy could also increase the risk of material losses on our investments, increase costs associated with developing and publishing our products, increase the cost and availability of sources of financing, and increase our exposure to material losses from bad debts, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. if economic conditions worsen, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. our quarterly operating results are dependent on the release of "hit" titles and are highly seasonal which may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate significantly. we have experienced and may continue to experience wide fluctuations in quarterly operating results. the release of a "hit" title typically leads to a high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. in addition, the interactive entertainment industry is highly seasonal, with sales typically higher during the fourth calendar quarter, due primarily to increased demand for games during the holiday season. demand for and sales of our sports titles are also seasonal in that they are typically released just prior to the start of the sport season which they depict. our failure or inability to produce "hit" titles or introduce products on a timely basis to meet seasonal fluctuations in demand could adversely affect our business and operating results. the uncertainties associated with software development, manufacturing lead times, production delays and the approval process for products by 12 table of contents hardware manufacturers and other licensors make it difficult to predict the quarter in which our products will ship and therefore may cause us to fail to meet financial expectations. returns of our published titles by our customers and price concessions granted to our customers may adversely affect our operating results. we are exposed to the risk of product returns and price concessions with respect to our customers. our distribution arrangements with customers generally do not give them the right to return titles to us or to cancel firm orders. however, we sometimes accept product returns from our distribution customers for stock balancing and negotiate accommodations for customers, which include credits and returns, when demand for specific products falls below expectations. we accept returns and grant price concessions in connection with our publishing arrangements and revenue is recognized after deducting estimated reserves for returns and price concessions. while we believe that we can reliably estimate future returns and price concessions, if return rates and price concessions for our products exceed our reserves, our revenue could decline. increased sales of used video game products could lower our sales. certain of our larger customers sell used video games, which are generally priced lower than new video games. if our customers continue to increase their sales of used video games, it could negatively affect our sales of new video games and have an adverse impact on our operating results. a limited number of customers account for a significant portion of our sales. the loss of a principal customer could seriously hurt our business. a substantial portion of our product sales are made to a limited number of customers. our sales are made primarily pursuant to purchase orders without long-term agreements or other commitments, and our customers may terminate their relationship with us at any time. certain of our customers may decline to carry products containing mature content. the loss of our relationships with principal customers or a decline in sales to principal customers, including as a result of a product being rated "ao" (age 18 and over), could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. furthermore, our customers may also be placed into bankruptcy, become insolvent or be liquidated due to the current economic downturn, the global contraction of credit or for other factors. bankruptcies or consolidations of certain large retail customers could seriously hurt our business, including as a result of uncollectible accounts receivable from such customers and the concentration of purchasing power among remaining large retailers. if our marketing and advertising efforts fail to resonate with our customers, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. our products are marketed worldwide through a diverse spectrum of advertising and promotional programs such as television and online advertising, print advertising, retail merchandising, website development and event sponsorship. our ability to sell our products and services is dependent in part on the success of these programs. if the marketing for our products and services fails to resonate with our customers, particularly during the holiday season or other key selling periods, or if advertising rates or other media placement costs increase, these factors could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. we rely on a limited number of third-party distributers for a significant portion of our products and the failure of these service providers to perform as expected could harm our operating results. we sell our products to our customers worldwide primarily through a limited number of third-party distributers. these third-parties provide shipping, receiving, warehouse management and related functions. 13 table of contents if these services are not performed in a satisfactory manner, or if we desire or are required to replace one or more of our primary distributors and are unable to do so, our sales and operating results could suffer. the interactive entertainment software industry is highly competitive. we compete for both licenses to properties and the sale of interactive entertainment software with sony, microsoft and nintendo, each of which is a large developer and marketer of software for its own platforms. we also compete with domestic game publishers, such as activision blizzard, electronic arts and thq and international publishers, such as capcom, konami, namco-bandai, sega, square enix and ubisoft. as our business is dependent upon our ability to develop hit titles, which require increasing budgets for development and marketing, the availability of significant financial resources has become a major competitive factor in developing and marketing software games. some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, personnel and other resources than we do and are able to finance larger budgets for development and marketing and make higher offers to licensors and developers for commercially desirable properties. our titles also compete with other forms of entertainment, such as social media and casual games, in addition to motion pictures, television and audio and video products featuring similar themes, online computer programs and other entertainment, which may be less expensive or provide other advantages to consumers. a number of software publishers who compete with us have developed and commercialized or are currently developing online games for use by consumers over the internet. if technological advances significantly increase the availability of online games and if consumer acceptance of online gaming grows substantially, it could result in a decline in our platform-based software sales and negatively impact sales of our products. increased competition for limited shelf space and promotional support from retailers could affect the success of our business and require us to incur greater expenses to market our titles. retailers have limited shelf space and promotional resources and competition is intense among newly introduced interactive entertainment software titles for adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support. competition for retail shelf space is expected to continue to increase, which may require us to increase our marketing expenditures to maintain desirable sales levels of our titles. competitors with more extensive lines and more popular titles may have greater bargaining power with retailers. accordingly, we may not be able, or we may have to pay more than our competitors, to achieve similar levels of promotional support and shelf space. our business is dependent on our ability to enter into successful software development arrangements with third-parties. our success depends on our ability to continually identify and develop new titles on a timely basis. we rely on third-party software developers for the development of some of our titles. quality third-party developers are continually in high demand. software developers who have developed titles for us in the past may not be available to develop software for us in the future. due to the limited number of third-party software developers and the limited control that we exercise over them, these developers may not be able to complete titles for us on a timely basis or within acceptable quality standards, if at all. we have entered into agreements with third-parties to acquire the rights to publish and distribute interactive entertainment software as well as to use licensed intellectual properties in our titles. these agreements typically require us to make development payments, pay royalties and satisfy other conditions. our development payments may not be sufficient to permit developers to develop new software successfully, which could result in material delays and significantly increase our costs to bring particular products to market. software development costs, promotion and marketing expenses and royalties payable to software developers and third-party licensors have increased significantly in recent years and reduce potential profits derived from 14 table of contents sales of our software. future sales of our titles may not be sufficient to recover development payments and advances to software developers and licensors, and we may not have adequate financial and other resources to satisfy our contractual commitments to such developers. if we fail to satisfy our obligations under agreements with third-party developers and licensors, the agreements may be terminated or modified in ways that are burdensome to us, and have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and operating results. we cannot publish our titles without the approval of hardware licensors that are also our competitors. we are required to obtain licenses from sony, microsoft and nintendo, which are also our competitors, to develop and publish titles for their respective hardware platforms. our existing platform licenses require that we obtain approval for the publication of new titles on a title-by-title basis. as a result, the number of titles we are able to publish for these hardware platforms, our ability to manage the timing of the release of these titles and, accordingly, our net revenue from titles for these hardware platforms, may be limited. if a licensor chooses not to renew or extend our license agreement at the end of its current term, or if a licensor were to terminate our license for any reason or does not approve one or more of our titles, we may be unable to publish that title as well as additional titles for that licensor's platform. termination of any such agreements or disapproval of titles could seriously hurt our business and prospects. we may be unable to continue to enter into license agreements for certain current generation platforms on satisfactory terms or at all. failure to enter into any such agreement could also seriously hurt our business. our platform licensors control the fee structures for online distribution of our games on their platforms. certain platform licensors have retained the right to change the fee structures for online distribution of both paid content and free content (including patches and corrections) on their platforms. each licensor's ability to set royalty rates may increase costs, which could negatively impact our operating margins. we may be unable to distribute our content in a cost-effective or profitable manner through this distribution channel, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. we may not be able to adequately adjust our cost structure in a timely fashion in response to a sudden decrease in demand. a significant portion of our selling and general and administrative expense is attributable to expenses for personnel and facilities. in the event of a significant decline in revenue, we may not be able to dispose of facilities, reduce personnel or make other changes to our cost structure without disruption to our operations or without significant termination and exit costs. management may not be able to implement such actions in a timely manner, if at all, to offset an immediate shortfall in revenue and profit. moreover, reducing costs may impair our ability to produce and develop software titles at sufficient levels in the future. we submit our products for rating by the entertainment software rating board ("esrb") in the united states and other voluntary or government ratings organizations in foreign countries. failure to obtain a target rating for certain of our products could negatively impact our ability to distribute and sell those games, as could the re-rating of a game for any reason. we voluntarily submit our game products to the esrb, a u.s.-based non-profit and independent ratings organization. the esrb system provides consumers with information about game content using a rating symbol that generally suggests the appropriate player age group and specific content descriptors, such as graphic violence, profanity or sexually explicit material. the esrb may impose significant penalties on game publishers for violations of its rules related to rating or marketing games, including revocation of a rating or monetary fines up to $1 million. other countries require voluntary or government backed ratings as prerequisites for product sales. in some instances, we may have to modify our products in order to 15 table of contents market them under the target rating, which could delay or disrupt the release of our products. in addition, some of our titles may not be sold at all or without extensive edits in certain countries, such as germany. in the united states, if the esrb rates a game as "ao" (age 18 and older), platform licensors may not certify the game and retailers may refuse to sell it. in addition, some consumers have reacted to re-ratings or controversial game content by refusing to purchase such games, demanding refunds for games that they had already purchased, and refraining from buying other games published by us. many of our rockstar titles and certain of our 2k games titles have been rated "m" (age 17 and older) by the esrb. if we are unable to obtain "m" ratings and instead receive "ao" ratings on future versions of those or similar titles as a result of changes in the esrb's ratings standards or for other reasons, including the adoption of legislation in this area, our business and prospects could be negatively affected. if any of our games are re-rated by the esrb or other foreign based ratings organizations, we could be exposed to litigation, administrative fines and penalties and other potential liabilities, and our operating results and financial condition could be significantly impacted. we have implemented processes to comply with the requirements of the esrb and other ratings organizations and properly display the designated rating symbols and content descriptions. nonetheless, these processes are subject to human error, circumvention, overriding and reasonable resource constraints. if a video game we published were found to contain undisclosed pertinent content, the esrb could re-rate a game, retailers could refuse to sell it and demand that we accept the return of any unsold copies or returns from customers, and consumers could refuse to buy it or demand that we refund their money. this could have a material negative impact on our operating results and financial condition. in addition, we may be exposed to litigation, administrative fines and penalties and our reputation could be harmed, which could impact sales of other video games we sell. if any of these consequences were to occur, our business and financial performance could be significantly harmed. content policies adopted by retailers, consumer opposition and litigation could negatively impact sales of our products. retailers may decline to sell interactive entertainment software containing what they judge to be graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other content that they deem inappropriate for their businesses. if retailers decline to sell our products based upon their opinion that they contain objectionable themes, graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other generally objectionable content, or if any of our previously "m" rated series products are rated "ao," we might be required to significantly change or discontinue particular titles or series, which in the case of our best selling grand theft auto titles could seriously affect our business. consumer advocacy groups have opposed sales of interactive entertainment software containing objectionable themes, violence or sexual material or other objectionable content by pressing for legislation in these areas and by engaging in public demonstrations and media campaigns. additionally, although lawsuits seeking damages for injuries allegedly suffered by third-parties as a result of video games have generally been unsuccessful in the courts, claims of this kind have been asserted against us from time to time and may be asserted and be successful in the future. we are subject to risks and uncertainties of international trade, including fluctuations in the values of local foreign currencies against the dollar. sales in international markets, primarily in europe, have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenue. we have also recently expanded our asian operations in an effort to increase our geographical scope and diversify our revenue base. we are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased credit risks, tariffs and duties, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, shipping delays, and international political, regulatory and economic developments, all of which can have a significant impact on our operating results. all of our international sales are made in local currencies, which could fluctuate against the dollar. while we may use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate 16 table of contents foreign currency risk, our operating results could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. we face risks from our international operations. we are subject to certain risks because of our international operations, particularly as we continue to grow our business and presence in asia, latin america and other parts of the world. changes to and compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations may increase our cost of doing business and our inability or failure to obtain required approvals could harm our international and domestic sales. trade legislation in either the united states or other countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, import/export compliance laws or other trade laws or policies, could adversely affect our ability to sell or to distribute in international markets. we incur additional legal compliance costs associated with our international operations and could become subject to legal penalties in foreign countries if we do not comply with local laws and regulations which may be substantially different from those in the united states. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by united states laws and regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, and by local laws, such as laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials. although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, including those based in or from countries where practices which violate such laws may be customary, will not take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. if we are unable to protect the intellectual property relating to our software, the commercial value of our products will be adversely affected and our competitive position could be harmed. we develop proprietary software and have obtained the rights to publish and distribute software developed by third-parties. we attempt to protect our software and production techniques under copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as well as through contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and distribution. our software is susceptible to piracy and unauthorized copying. unauthorized third-parties may be able to copy or to reverse engineer our software to obtain and use programming or production techniques that we regard as proprietary. well organized piracy operations have also proliferated in recent years, resulting in the ability to download pirated copies of our software over the internet. although we attempt to incorporate protective measures into our software, piracy of our products could negatively impact our future profitability. if we infringe on or are alleged to infringe on the intellectual property rights of third-parties, our business could be adversely affected. as our industry grows, we may be subject to an increasing amount of litigation that is common in the software industry based on allegations of infringement or other alleged violations of patent, copyright and/or trademarks. in addition, we believe that interactive entertainment software will increasingly become the subject of claims that such software infringes on the intellectual property rights of others with both the growth of online functionality and advances in technology, game content and software graphics as games become more realistic. from time to time, we receive notices from third-parties or are named in lawsuits by third-parties alleging infringement of their proprietary rights. although we believe that our software and technologies and the software and technologies of third-party developers and publishers with whom we have contractual relations do not and will not infringe or violate proprietary rights of others, it is possible that infringement of proprietary rights of others may occur. any claims of infringement, with or without merit, could be time consuming, costly and difficult to defend. moreover, intellectual property litigation or claims could require us to discontinue the distribution of products, obtain a license or redesign our products, which could result in additional substantial costs and material delays. 17 table of contents data breaches involving the source code for our products could adversely affect our revenues. we securely store the source code for our interactive entertainment software products as it is created. a breach, whether physical, electronic or otherwise, of the systems on which such source code and other sensitive data is stored could lead to damage or piracy of our software. if we are subject to data security breaches, we may have a loss in sales or increased costs arising from the restoration or implementation of additional security measures which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. our software is susceptible to errors, which can harm our financial results and reputation. the technological advancements of new hardware platforms result in the development of more complex software products. as software products become more complex, the risk of undetected errors in new products increases. we may need to produce and distribute patches in order to repair such errors, which could be costly and may distract our developers from working on new products. if, despite testing, errors are found in new products or releases after shipments have been made, we could experience a loss of or delay in timely market acceptance, product returns, loss of revenue, increases in costs relating to the repair of such errors and damage to our reputation. if we acquire or invest in other businesses, intellectual properties or other assets, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired and/or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for such transactions. if appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may acquire or make investments in businesses, intellectual properties and other assets that we believe are strategic. we may not be able to identify, negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment successfully. even if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a business, intellectual property or other asset, such acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including: retaining key employees and maintaining the key business and customer relationships of the businesses we acquire; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from an acquired company or business into our organization; the possibility that the combined company would not achieve the expected benefits, including any anticipated operating and product synergies, of the acquisition as quickly as anticipated or that the costs of, or operational difficulties arising from, an acquisition would be greater than anticipated; significant acquisition-related accounting adjustments, particularly relating to an acquired company's deferred revenue, that may cause reported revenue and profits of the combined company to be lower than the sum of their stand-alone revenue and profits; significant accounting charges resulting from the completion and integration of a sizeable acquisition and increased capital expenditures, including potential impairment charges incurred to write down the carrying amount of intangible assets generated as a result of an acquisition; the possibility that we will not discover important facts during due diligence that could have a material adverse impact on the value of the businesses we acquire, including the possibility that a change of control of a company we acquire triggers a termination of contractual or intellectual property rights important to the operation of its business; the need to integrate an acquired company's accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management and timely reporting, and the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company 18 table of contents in an acquired company that, prior to the acquisition, lacked these controls, procedures and policies; litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risks as a result of, an acquisition, including claims from terminated employees, customers or other third-parties; and to the extent that we engage in strategic transactions outside of the united states, we face additional risks, including risks related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. future acquisitions and investments could also involve the issuance of our equity and equity-linked securities (potentially diluting our existing stockholders), the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, write-offs of goodwill, intangibles, or acquired in-process technology, or other increased cash and non-cash expenses such as stock- based compensation. any of the foregoing factors could harm our financial condition or prevent us from achieving improvements in our financial condition and operating performance that could have otherwise been achieved by us on a stand-alone basis. our stockholders may not have the opportunity to review, vote on or evaluate future acquisitions or investments. our ability to acquire and maintain licenses to intellectual property, especially for sports titles, impacts our revenue and profitability. competition for these licenses may make them more expensive and increase our costs. certain of our products are based on or incorporate intellectual property owned by others. for example, our 2k sports products include rights licensed from major sports leagues and players' associations. similarly, some of our other titles are based on licenses of popular entertainment products. competition for these licenses is intense. if we are unable to maintain these licenses or obtain additional licenses on reasonable economic terms or with significant commercial value, our revenue and profitability could decline significantly. competition for these licenses may also increase the advances, guarantees and royalties that we must pay to the licensor, which could significantly increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability. in addition, on certain intellectual property licenses, we are subject to guaranteed minimum payments, royalties or standards of performance and may not be able to terminate these agreements prior to their stated expiration. if such licensed products do not generate revenues in excess of such minimum guarantees, our profitability will be adversely impacted. we are subject to contractual covenants which place certain limitations on how we manage our business . our credit agreement and the indenture governing our convertible senior notes limit our ability to take various actions, including incurring additional debt, paying dividends, repurchasing shares and acquiring or disposing of assets or businesses. in addition, we have granted a security interest in connection with certain compensatory arrangements which limits our ability to incur senior debt in excess of certain amounts. accordingly, we may be restricted from taking actions that management believes would be desirable and in the best interests of us and our stockholders. our credit agreement and the indenture also require us to satisfy specified financial and non-financial covenants. a breach of any of the covenants contained in our credit agreement could result in an event of default under the agreement and under the indenture governing our convertible senior notes and would allow our lenders and noteholders to pursue various remedies, including accelerating the repayment of any outstanding indebtedness. our involvement, and the involvement of some of our former executive officers, in a wide variety of lawsuits, investigations and proceedings has had, and may in the future have, a material adverse effect on us. we and some of our former officers, directors and employees have been the subject of three separate governmental investigations and a substantial amount of litigation and other proceedings relating to the 19 table of contents subject matter of those investigations. while most of these matters have been resolved, these investigations, litigation and other proceedings have imposed significant costs on us, including professional fees, penalties and settlement costs, and the diversion of the time and attention of our management team. we may be subject to heightened scrutiny in the future as a result of our historical legal proceedings, including an increased likelihood of a government investigation occurring and an increased likelihood that any such investigation is more extensive than in the past. furthermore, any future fines, restrictions or other penalties imposed as a result of any such investigation may be more severe than those which may be imposed on a company without our history. our business and products are subject to potential legislation. the adoption of such proposed legislation could limit the retail market for our products. several proposals have been made for federal legislation to regulate our industry. such proposals seek to prohibit the sale of products containing content included in some of our games. if any such proposals are enacted into law, it may limit the potential market for some of our games in the united states, and adversely affect our operating results. other countries, such as germany, have adopted laws regulating content both in packaged games and those transmitted over the internet that are stricter than current united states laws. in the united states, proposals have also been made by numerous state legislators to regulate and prohibit the sale of interactive entertainment software products containing certain types of violent or sexual content to under 17 or 18 audiences, such as the state of california's "ultraviolent video games law" that sought to ban the sale or rental of violent video games to minors. while such legislation to date has been enjoined by industry and retail groups or been found unconstitutional, the adoption into law of such legislation in federal and/or in state jurisdictions in which we do significant business could severely limit the retail market for some of our games. we may need additional capital if we incur losses. if we incur losses in the future, we may be required to raise additional capital in order to fund our operations. we could seek to raise capital in a number of ways, including through the issuance of debt or equity, or through other financing arrangements. during the fiscal year ended october 31, 2007, we entered into a senior secured line of credit agreement (and expanded the line of credit in november 2007), which requires us to make periodic interest or other debt service payments. in addition, during the fiscal year ended october 31, 2009 we issued convertible senior notes, which require us to make periodic interest payments to the holders of the convertible senior notes. if we borrow additional funds, further debt service payments would probably be necessary. in addition, the terms of additional debt may impose significant restrictions on our ability to operate our business. if we seek financing through the sale of equity or equity-based securities (such as our convertible senior notes), our current stockholders will suffer dilution in their percentage ownership of common stock. we cannot be certain as to our ability to raise additional capital in the future or under what terms capital would be available, particularly in light of the recent economic downturn which has, among other consequences, led to the depression of stock prices and the tightening of credit. if we need to raise capital and are not successful in doing so, we will have to consider other options that may include, but are not limited to, a reduction in our expenditures for internal and external new product development, reductions in overhead expenses, and sales of intellectual property and other assets. these actions, should they become necessary, will likely result in a reduction in the size of our operations and could materially affect the prospects of our business. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill becomes impaired. we are required under generally accepted accounting principles to review our goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating a requirement to reevaluate whether our goodwill continues to be recoverable, include a significant decline in stock price 20 table of contents and market capitalization, slower growth rates in our industry or other materially adverse events. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill is determined. this may adversely impact our operating results. our reported financial results could be adversely affected by the application of existing or future accounting standards to our business as it evolves. the frequency of accounting policy changes may continue to accelerate. for example, standards regarding software revenue recognition have and could further significantly affect the way we account for revenue related to our products and services. we expect that a significant portion of our games will be online- enabled in the future, and we could be required to recognize the related revenue over an extended period of time rather than at the time of sale. as we enhance, expand and diversify our business and product offerings, the application of existing or future financial accounting standards, particularly those relating to the way we account for revenue, could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results although not necessarily on our cash flows. risks relating to our common stock for purposes of this section " risks relating to our common stock," references to "the company," "we," "our," and "us" refer only to take-two interactive software, inc. and not to its subsidiaries. additional issuances of equity securities by us would dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders. we may issue equity or equity-based securities (such as our convertible senior notes) in the future in connection with acquisitions or strategic transactions, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, including through repayment of outstanding debt, to fund expansion of our operations or for other purposes. to the extent we issue additional equity securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders would be reduced. future sales or other issuances of our common stock could adversely affect its market price. the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely impact its price. the sale or the availability for sale of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause the price of our common stock to decline. the issuance of shares of our common stock upon conversion of our convertible senior notes could also adversely affect the price of our common stock. our stock price has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate significantly. the market price of our common stock historically has been, and we expect will continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations. these fluctuations may be due to factors specific to us including those discussed in the risk factors in this section as well as others not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material, to changes in securities analysts' earnings estimates or ratings, to our results or future financial guidance falling below our expectations and analysts' and investors' expectations, to factors affecting the computer, software, entertainment, media or electronics industries, or to national or international economic conditions. stock markets, in general, have experienced over the years, and continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected market prices for companies such as ours and that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. 21 table of contents the convertible senior note hedge and warrant transactions entered into in connection with the offering of our convertible senior notes may affect the value of the notes and our common stock. in connection with the offering of our convertible senior notes, we entered into convertible senior note hedge transactions which are expected to reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the notes. however, we also entered into warrant transactions which could separately have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants. in addition, the counterparties to the hedge and warrant transactions, and/or their respective affiliates, may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock in secondary market transactions at any time prior to the maturity of the notes (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of notes). this activity could also cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of our common stock or the notes. delaware law, our charter documents and provisions of our debt agreements may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline. we are a delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third-party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. our board has the power, without stockholder approval, to adopt a stockholder rights plan and/or to designate the terms of one or more series of preferred stock and issue shares of preferred stock. in addition, we may under certain circumstances involving a change of control, be obligated to repurchase all or a portion of our convertible senior notes and any potential acquirer would be required to assume our obligations related to any outstanding notes. we or any possible acquirer may not have available financial resources necessary to repurchase those notes. the ability of our board to create and issue a new series of preferred stock and certain provisions of delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the indenture governing our notes could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market price of our common stock and the value of any outstanding notes. our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to reduce future years' taxes could be substantially limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in the internal revenue code. section 382 of the internal revenue code contains rules that limit the ability of a company to use its net operating loss carryforwards in years after an ownership change, which is generally defined as any change in ownership of more than 50% of its stock over a three-year testing period. these rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes among stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of the stock of a company and/or any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by the company. if, as a result of future transactions involving our common stock, including purchases or sales of stock by 5% stockholders, we undergo cumulative ownership changes which exceed 50% over the testing period, our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards would be subject to additional limitations under section 382. generally, if an ownership change occurs, the annual taxable income limitation on the use of net operating loss carryforwards is equal to the product of the applicable long-term tax exempt rate and the value of the company's stock immediately before the ownership change. depending on the resulting limitation, a portion of our net operating loss carryforwards could expire before we would be able to use them. our inability to fully utilize our net operating losses to offset taxable income generated in the future could have a material and negative impact on our future financial position and results of operations. 22 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential loss arising from fluctuations in market rates and prices. our market risk exposures primarily include fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rate risk historically, fluctuations in interest rates have not had a significant impact on our operating results. under our credit agreement, outstanding balances bear interest at our election of (a) 2.00% to 2.50% above a certain base rate with a minimum 6.00% base rate (8.00% at march 31, 2011), or (b) 3.25% to 3.75% above the libor rate with a minimum 4.00% libor rate (7.25% at march 31, 2011), with the margin rate subject to the achievement of certain average liquidity levels. changes in market rates may impact our future interest expense if there is an outstanding balance on our line of credit. the convertible notes pay interest semi-annually at a fixed rate of 4.375% per annum and we expect that there will be no fluctuation related to the convertible notes impacting our cash component of interest expense. for additional details on our convertible notes see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. 49 table of contents foreign currency exchange rate risk we transact business in foreign currencies and are exposed to risks resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. accounts relating to foreign operations are translated into united states dollars using prevailing exchange rates at the relevant period end. translation adjustments are included as a separate component of stockholders' equity. for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2011, our foreign currency translation gain adjustment was approximately $14.2 million. we recognized a foreign exchange transaction gain in interest and other, net in our consolidated statements of operations for the fiscal years ended march 31, 2011 and october 31, 2009 of $1.4 million and $4.3 million, respectively, and a foreign exchange transaction loss for the fiscal years ended march 31, 2010 and october 31, 2008 of $0.6 million and $5.0 million, respectively. we use forward foreign exchange contracts to mitigate foreign currency risk related to certain foreign currency transactions. these transactions primarily relate to non-functional currency denominated cash balances and inter-company funding loans, non-functional currency denominated accounts receivable and non-functional currency denominated accounts payable. we do not enter into derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. at march 31, 2011, we had forward contracts outstanding to purchase $2.4 million of foreign currency in exchange for u.s. dollars and $35.5 million of u.s. dollars in exchange for foreign currencies with a maturity of less than one year. for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2011, we recorded a $6.9 million loss related to foreign currency forward contracts in interest and other, net on the consolidated statements of operations. for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2011, 44.1% of the company's revenue was generated outside the united states. using sensitivity analysis, a hypothetical 10% increase in the value of the u.s. dollar against all currencies would decrease revenues by 4.4%, while a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of the u.s. dollar against all currencies would increase revenues by 4.4%. in the opinion of management, a substantial portion of this fluctuation would be offset by cost of goods sold and operating expenses incurred in local currency.risk factors 10 risk factors our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. because of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other factors affecting our operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance and our business and financial performance could be harmed and the market value of our securities could decline. risks relating to our business we are dependent on the future success of our grand theft auto products and we must continue to publish "hit" titles or sequels to such "hit" titles in order to compete successfully in our industry. grand theft auto and certain of our other titles are "hit" products and have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our revenue. sales of grand theft auto products generated approximately 13.8% of the company's net revenue for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2012 and the ten best-selling titles (including grand theft auto ) that significantly contributed to the company's net revenue for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2012 in the aggregate accounted for approximately 89.7% of the company's net revenue. if we fail to continue to develop and sell new commercially successful "hit" titles or sequels to such "hit" titles or experience any delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our "hit" titles or their sequels, our revenue and profits may decrease substantially and we may incur losses. in addition, competition in our industry is intense and a relatively small number of hit titles account for a large portion of total revenue in our industry. hit products offered by our competitors may take a larger share of consumer spending than we anticipate, which could cause revenue generated from our products to fall below our expectations. if our competitors develop more successful products or services at lower price points or based on payment models perceived as offering better value, or if we do not continue to develop consistently high quality and well-received products and services, our revenue and profitability may decline. in addition, both the online and mobile games marketplaces are characterized by frequent product introductions, relatively low barriers to entry, and new and evolving business methods, technologies and platforms for development. widespread consumer adoption of these new platforms for games and other technological advances in online or mobile game offerings could negatively affect our sales of console and traditional pc products before we have an opportunity to develop profitable businesses in such markets. we are subject to product development risks which could result in delays and additional costs, and we must adapt to changes in software technologies. we depend on our internal development studios and third-party software developers to develop new interactive entertainment software within anticipated release schedules and cost projections. the development cycle for new titles generally ranges from 12 to more than 24 months, and our top-selling titles could take up to 3 years or longer to develop. development times and costs of current generation software have increased substantially as a result of the additional and enhanced features available in the newest games. further, after development of a product it may take between 9 and 12 additional months to develop the product for other hardware platforms. if our third-party software developers experience unanticipated development delays, financial difficulties or additional costs we will not be able to release titles according to our schedule and at budgeted costs. certain of our licensing and marketing agreements also contain provisions that would impose penalties if we fail to meet agreed upon game release dates. there can be no assurance that our products will be sufficiently successful so that we can recoup these costs or make a profit on these products. additionally, in order to stay competitive, our internal development studios must anticipate and adapt to rapid technological changes affecting software development. any inability to respond to technological advances and implement new technologies could render our products obsolete or less marketable. 10 table of contents the inability of our products to achieve significant market acceptance, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our products may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. new products may not achieve significant market acceptance, generate sufficient sales or be introduced in a timely manner to permit us to recover development, manufacturing and marketing costs associated with these products. the life cycle of a title generally involves a relatively high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. because revenue associated with an initial product launch generally constitutes a high percentage of the total revenue associated with the life of a product, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of one or more new products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cause our operating results to be materially different from our expectations. our business is subject to the continued popularity of current generation video game platforms and our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. we derive most of our revenue from the sale of products made for video game platforms manufactured by third-parties, such as sony's ps3, microsoft's xbox 360 and nintendo's wii. note 16 to our consolidated financial statements, "segment and geographic information," discloses that sony, microsoft and nintendo hardware platforms comprised approximately 89.4% of the company's net revenue by product platform for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2012. the success of our business is subject to the continued popularity of these platforms and our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. connectivity issues related to digital delivery platforms could affect our ability to sell and provide online services for our products and could affect our profitability. we rely upon third-party digital delivery platforms, such as xbox live and sen, to provide connectivity from the consumer to our digital products and our online services. connectivity issues could prevent customers from accessing this content and our ability to successfully market and sell our products could be adversely affected. in addition, we could experience similar issues related to services we host on our internal servers. such issues also could affect our ability to provide online services and could affect our business. our business could be adversely affected if our consumer data protection measures are not seen as adequate or there are breaches of our security measures or unintended disclosures of our consumer data. we are collecting and storing consumer information, including personal information and credit card information. we take measures to protect our consumer data from unauthorized access or disclosure. it is possible that our security controls over consumer data may not prevent the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information. in addition, due to the high profile nature of our products, we may draw a disproportionately higher amount of attention and attempts to breach our security controls than companies with lower profile products. a security breach that leads to disclosure of consumer account information (including personally identifiable information) could harm our reputation, compel us to comply with disparate breach notification laws in various jurisdictions and otherwise subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. a resulting perception that our products or services do not adequately protect the privacy of personal information could result in a loss of current or potential consumers and business partners. in addition, if any of our business partners experience a security breach that leads to disclosure of consumer account information, our reputation could be harmed, resulting in loss of revenue. the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the u.s., europe and elsewhere are often uncertain, contradictory and in flux. it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. if so, this could result in government imposed fines or orders requiring that we change our data practices, which could have an adverse effect on 11 table of contents our business. complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. in addition, certain of our products are online-enabled. the ability of our products to offer online functionality, and our ability to offer content through a video game platform's digital distribution channel, is dependent upon the continued operation and security of such platform's online network. these third-party networks, as well as our own internal systems and websites, and the security measures related thereto may be breached as a result of third-party action, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and result in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our customers' data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information, or our information technology systems. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. if an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, we may lose business, suffer irreparable damage to our reputation, and/or incur significant costs and expenses relating to the investigation and possible litigation of claims relating to such event. security breaches involving the source code for our products could adversely affect our revenues. we securely store the source code for our interactive entertainment software products as it is created. a breach, whether physical, electronic or otherwise, of the systems on which such source code and other sensitive data are stored could lead to damage or piracy of our software. if we are subject to data security breaches, we may have a loss in sales or increased costs arising from the restoration or implementation of additional security measures which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. any theft and/or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an event could adversely affect our competitive position, reputation, brand and future sales of our products. our business could be subject to significant disruption, and we could suffer monetary and other losses and reputational harm, in the event of such incidents and claims. if we are unable to sustain launch pricing on current generation titles, our operating results may suffer. the interactive entertainment software and hardware industry is characterized by the introduction of new and enhanced generations of products and evolving industry standards. current generation titles for the ps3, xbox 360 and wii have been offered at premium retail prices since the launch of such consoles. we expect to continue to price current generation titles at a premium level. however, circumstances may arise in which we may need to reduce prices for such titles. if we are unable to sustain launch pricing on these current generation titles, it will have a material adverse effect on our margins, profitability and operating results. we depend on our key management and product development personnel. our continued success will depend to a significant extent on our senior management team and our relationship with zelnickmedia corporation ("zelnickmedia"). our executive chairman and chief executive officer and chief operating officer are partners of zelnickmedia. we are also highly dependent on the expertise, skills and knowledge of certain of our rockstar employees and other key creative personnel responsible for content creation and development of our grand theft auto titles and titles based on other brands. we may not be able to continue to retain these personnel at current compensation levels, or at all. the loss of the services of our executive officers, zelnickmedia, our key rockstar employees or other key creative personnel could significantly harm our business. in addition, if one or more key employees were to join a competitor or form a competing company, we may lose additional personnel, experience material interruptions in product development, delays in bringing products to market and difficulties in our relationships with licensors, suppliers and customers, which would significantly harm our business. failure 12 table of contents to continue to attract and retain other qualified management and creative personnel could adversely affect our business and prospects. declines in consumer spending and other adverse changes in the economy could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. most of our products involve discretionary spending on the part of consumers. we believe that consumer spending is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. this makes our products particularly sensitive to general economic conditions and economic cycles as consumers are generally more willing to make discretionary purchases, including purchases of products like ours, during periods in which favorable economic conditions prevail. adverse economic conditions such as a prolonged u.s. or international general economic downturn, including periods of increased inflation, unemployment levels, tax rates, interest rates, energy prices or declining consumer confidence could also reduce consumer spending. reduced consumer spending has and may continue to result in reduced demand for our products and may also require increased selling and promotional expenses, which has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. furthermore, uncertainty and adverse changes in the economy could also increase the risk of material losses on our investments, increase costs associated with developing and publishing our products, increase the cost and availability of sources of financing, and increase our exposure to material losses from bad debts, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. if economic conditions worsen, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. our quarterly operating results are dependent on the release of "hit" titles and are highly seasonal which may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate significantly. we have experienced and may continue to experience wide fluctuations in quarterly operating results. the release of a "hit" title typically leads to a high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. in addition, the interactive entertainment industry is highly seasonal, with sales typically higher during the fourth calendar quarter, due primarily to increased demand for games during the holiday season. demand for and sales of our sports titles are also seasonal in that they are typically released just prior to the start of the sport season which they depict. if a key event or sports season to which our product release schedule is tied were to be delayed or cancelled, our sales would also suffer disproportionately. our failure or inability to produce "hit" titles or introduce products on a timely basis to meet seasonal fluctuations in demand could adversely affect our business and operating results. the uncertainties associated with software development, manufacturing lead times, production delays and the approval process for products by hardware manufacturers and other licensors make it difficult to predict the quarter in which our products will ship and therefore may cause us to fail to meet financial expectations. returns of our published titles by our customers and price concessions granted to our customers may adversely affect our operating results. we are exposed to the risk of product returns and price concessions with respect to our customers. our distribution arrangements with customers generally do not give them the right to return titles to us or to cancel firm orders. however, we sometimes accept product returns from our distribution customers for stock balancing and negotiate accommodations for customers, which include credits and returns, when demand for specific products falls below expectations. we accept returns and grant price concessions in connection with our publishing arrangements and revenue is recognized after deducting estimated reserves for returns and price concessions. while we believe that we can reliably estimate future returns and price concessions, if return rates and price concessions for our products exceed our reserves, our revenue could decline. 13 table of contents increased sales of used video game products could lower our sales. certain of our larger customers sell used video games, which are generally priced lower than new video games. if our customers continue to increase their sales of used video games, it could negatively affect our sales of new video games and have an adverse influence on our operating results. a limited number of customers account for a significant portion of our sales. the loss of a principal customer could seriously hurt our business. a substantial portion of our product sales are made to a limited number of customers. sales to our five largest customers during the fiscal year ended march 31, 2012 accounted for approximately 43.9% of our net revenue, with gamestop and wal-mart accounting for 19.0% and 10.7%, respectively. our sales are made primarily pursuant to purchase orders without long-term agreements or other commitments, and our customers may terminate their relationship with us at any time. certain of our customers may decline to carry products containing mature content. the loss of our relationships with principal customers or a decline in sales to principal customers, including as a result of a product being rated "ao" (age 18 and over), could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. furthermore, our customers may also be placed into bankruptcy, become insolvent or be liquidated due to economic downturns, global contractions of credit or for other factors. bankruptcies or consolidations of certain large retail customers could seriously hurt our business, including as a result of uncollectible accounts receivable from such customers and the concentration of purchasing power among remaining large retailers. in addition, our results of operations may be adversely affected if certain of our customers who purchase on credit terms are no longer eligible to purchase on such terms due to their financial distress, which may reduce the quantity of products they demand from us. if our marketing and advertising efforts fail to resonate with our customers, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. our products are marketed worldwide through a diverse spectrum of advertising and promotional programs such as television and online advertising, print advertising, retail merchandising, website development and event sponsorship. our ability to sell our products and services is dependent in part on the success of these programs. if the marketing for our products and services fails to resonate with our customers, particularly during the holiday season or other key selling periods, or if advertising rates or other media placement costs increase, these factors could have a material adverse influence on our business and operating results. the interactive entertainment software industry is highly competitive. we compete for both licenses to properties and the sale of interactive entertainment software with sony, microsoft and nintendo, each of which is a large developer and marketer of software for its own platforms. we also compete with domestic game publishers, such as activision blizzard, electronic arts and thq and international publishers, such as capcom, konami, namco-bandai, sega, square enix and ubisoft. as our business is dependent upon our ability to develop hit titles, which require increasing budgets for development and marketing, the availability of significant financial resources has become a major competitive factor in developing and marketing software games. some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, personnel and other resources than we do and are able to finance larger budgets for development and marketing and make higher offers to licensors and developers for commercially desirable properties. our titles also compete with other forms of entertainment, such as social media and casual games, in addition to motion pictures, television and audio and video products featuring similar themes, online computer programs and other entertainment, which may be less expensive or provide other advantages to consumers. a number of software publishers who compete with us have developed and commercialized or are currently developing online games for use by consumers over the internet. if technological advances 14 table of contents significantly increase the availability of online games and if consumer acceptance of online gaming grows substantially, it could result in a decline in our platform-based software sales and negatively affect sales of such products. increased competition for limited shelf space and promotional support from retailers could affect the success of our business and require us to incur greater expenses to market our titles. retailers have limited shelf space and promotional resources and competition is intense among newly introduced interactive entertainment software titles for adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support. competition for retail shelf space is expected to continue to increase, which may require us to increase our marketing expenditures to maintain desirable sales levels of our titles. competitors with more extensive lines and more popular titles may have greater bargaining power with retailers. accordingly, we may not be able, or we may have to pay more than our competitors, to achieve similar levels of promotional support and shelf space. our business is dependent on our ability to enter into successful software development arrangements with third-parties. our success depends on our ability to continually identify and develop new titles on a timely basis. we rely on third-party software developers for the development of some of our titles. quality third-party developers are continually in high demand. software developers who have developed titles for us in the past may not be available to develop software for us in the future. due to the limited number of third-party software developers and the limited control that we exercise over them, these developers may not be able to complete titles for us on a timely basis or within acceptable quality standards, if at all. we have entered into agreements with third-parties to acquire the rights to publish and distribute interactive entertainment software as well as to use licensed intellectual properties in our titles. these agreements typically require us to make development payments, pay royalties and satisfy other conditions. our development payments may not be sufficient to permit developers to develop new software successfully, which could result in material delays and significantly increase our costs to bring particular products to market. software development costs, promotion and marketing expenses and royalties payable to software developers and third-party licensors have increased significantly in recent years and reduce potential profits derived from sales of our software. future sales of our titles may not be sufficient to recover development payments and advances to software developers and licensors, and we may not have adequate financial and other resources to satisfy our contractual commitments to such developers. if we fail to satisfy our obligations under agreements with third-party developers and licensors, the agreements may be terminated or modified in ways that are burdensome to us, and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. we cannot publish our titles without the approval of hardware licensors that are also our competitors. we are required to obtain licenses from sony, microsoft and nintendo, which are also our competitors, to develop and publish titles for their respective hardware platforms. our existing platform licenses require that we obtain approval for the publication of new titles on a title-by-title basis. as a result, the number of titles we are able to publish for these hardware platforms, our ability to manage the timing of the release of these titles and, accordingly, our net revenue from titles for these hardware platforms, may be limited. if a licensor chooses not to renew or extend our license agreement at the end of its current term, or if a licensor were to terminate our license for any reason or does not approve one or more of our titles, we may be unable to publish that title as well as additional titles for that licensor's platform. termination of any such agreements or disapproval of titles could seriously hurt our business and prospects. we may be unable to continue to enter into license agreements for certain current generation platforms on satisfactory terms or at all. failure to enter into any such agreement could also seriously hurt our business. 15 table of contents our platform licensors control the fee structures for online distribution of our games on their platforms. certain platform licensors have retained the right to change the fee structures for online distribution of both paid content and free content (including patches and corrections) on their platforms. each licensor's ability to set royalty rates may increase costs, which could negatively affect our operating margins. we may be unable to distribute our content in a cost-effective or profitable manner through this distribution channel, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. we may not be able to adequately adjust our cost structure in a timely fashion in response to a sudden decrease in demand. in the event of a significant decline in revenue, we may not be able to dispose of facilities, reduce personnel or make other changes to our cost structure without disruption to our operations or without significant termination and exit costs. management may not be able to implement such actions in a timely manner, if at all, to offset an immediate shortfall in revenue and profit. moreover, reducing costs may impair our ability to produce and develop software titles at sufficient levels in the future. we submit our products for rating by the entertainment software rating board ("esrb") in the united states and other voluntary or government ratings organizations in foreign countries. failure to obtain a target rating for certain of our products could negatively affect our ability to distribute and sell those games, as could the re-rating of a game for any reason. we voluntarily submit our game products to the esrb, a u.s.-based non-profit and independent ratings organization. the esrb system provides consumers with information about game content using a rating symbol that generally suggests the appropriate player age group and specific content descriptors, such as graphic violence, profanity or sexually explicit material. the esrb may impose significant penalties on game publishers for violations of its rules related to rating or marketing games, including revocation of a rating or monetary fines up to $1 million. other countries require voluntary or government backed ratings as prerequisites for product sales. in some instances, we may have to modify our products in order to market them under the target rating, which could delay or disrupt the release of our products. in addition, some of our titles may not be sold at all or without extensive edits in certain countries, such as germany. in the united states, if the esrb rates a game as "ao" (age 18 and older), platform licensors may not certify the game and retailers may refuse to sell it. in addition, some consumers have reacted to re-ratings or controversial game content by refusing to purchase such games, demanding refunds for games that they had already purchased, and refraining from buying other games published by us. many of our rockstar titles and certain of our 2k games titles have been rated "m" (age 17 and older) by the esrb. if we are unable to obtain "m" ratings and instead receive "ao" ratings on future versions of those or similar titles as a result of changes in the esrb's ratings standards or for other reasons, including the adoption of legislation in this area, our business and prospects could be negatively affected. if any of our games are re-rated by the esrb or other foreign based ratings organizations, we could be exposed to litigation, administrative fines and penalties and other potential liabilities, and our operating results and financial condition could be significantly affected. we have implemented processes to comply with the requirements of the esrb and other ratings organizations and properly display the designated rating symbols and content descriptions. nonetheless, these processes are subject to human error, circumvention, overriding and reasonable resource constraints. if a video game we published were found to contain undisclosed pertinent content, the esrb could re-rate a game, retailers could refuse to sell it and demand that we accept the return of any unsold copies or returns from customers, and consumers could refuse to buy it or demand that we refund their money. this could have a material negative affect on our operating results and financial condition. in addition, we may be exposed to litigation, administrative fines and penalties and our reputation could be harmed, which could affect sales of other video games we sell. if any of these consequences were to occur, our business and financial performance could be significantly harmed. 16 table of contents content policies adopted by retailers, consumer opposition and litigation could negatively affect sales of our products. retailers may decline to sell interactive entertainment software containing what they judge to be graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other content that they deem inappropriate for their businesses. if retailers decline to sell our products based upon their opinion that they contain objectionable themes, graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other generally objectionable content, or if any of our previously "m" rated series products are rated "ao," we might be required to significantly change or discontinue particular titles or series, which in the case of our best-selling grand theft auto titles could seriously affect our business. consumer advocacy groups have opposed sales of interactive entertainment software containing objectionable themes, violence or sexual material or other objectionable content by pressing for legislation in these areas and by engaging in public demonstrations and media campaigns. additionally, although lawsuits seeking damages for injuries allegedly suffered by third-parties as a result of video games have generally been unsuccessful in the courts, claims of this kind have been asserted against us from time to time and may be asserted and be successful in the future. we are subject to risks and uncertainties of international trade, including fluctuations in the values of local foreign currencies against the dollar. sales in international markets, primarily in europe, have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenue. note 16 to our consolidated financial statements, "segment and geographic information," discloses that sales in europe comprised approximately 29.8% of the company's net revenue for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2012. we have also expanded our asian operations in an effort to increase our geographical scope and diversify our revenue base. we are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased credit risks, tariffs and duties, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, shipping delays, and international political, regulatory and economic developments, all of which can have a significant influence on our operating results. many of our international sales are made in local currencies, which could fluctuate against the dollar. while we may use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our operating results could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. we face risks from our international operations. we are subject to certain risks because of our international operations, particularly as we continue to grow our business and presence in asia, latin america and other parts of the world. changes to and compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations may increase our cost of doing business and our inability or failure to obtain required approvals could harm our international and domestic sales. trade legislation in either the united states or other countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, import/export compliance laws or other trade laws or policies, could adversely affect our ability to sell or to distribute in international markets. we incur additional legal compliance costs associated with our international operations and could become subject to legal penalties in foreign countries if we do not comply with local laws and regulations which may be substantially different from those in the united states. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by united states laws and regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, and by local laws, such as laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials. although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, including those based in or from countries where practices which violate such laws may be customary, will not take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 17 table of contents if we are unable to protect the intellectual property relating to our software, the commercial value of our products will be adversely affected and our competitive position could be harmed. we develop proprietary software and have obtained the rights to publish and distribute software developed by third-parties. we attempt to protect our software and production techniques under copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as well as through contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and distribution. our software is susceptible to piracy and unauthorized copying. unauthorized third-parties may be able to copy or to reverse engineer our software to obtain and use programming or production techniques that we regard as proprietary. well organized piracy operations have also proliferated in recent years, resulting in the ability to download pirated copies of our software over the internet. although we attempt to incorporate protective measures into our software, piracy of our products could negatively affect our future profitability. if we infringe on or are alleged to infringe on the intellectual property rights of third-parties, our business could be adversely affected. as our industry grows, we may be subject to an increasing amount of litigation that is common in the software industry based on allegations of infringement or other alleged violations of patent, copyright and/or trademarks. in addition, we believe that interactive entertainment software will increasingly become the subject of claims that such software infringes on the intellectual property rights of others with both the growth of online functionality and advances in technology, game content and software graphics as games become more realistic. from time to time, we receive notices from third-parties or are named in lawsuits by third-parties alleging infringement of their proprietary rights. although we believe that our software and technologies and the software and technologies of third-party developers and publishers with whom we have contractual relations do not and will not infringe or violate proprietary rights of others, it is possible that infringement of proprietary rights of others may occur. any claims of infringement, with or without merit, could be time consuming, costly and difficult to defend. moreover, intellectual property litigation or claims could require us to discontinue the distribution of products, obtain a license or redesign our products, which could result in additional substantial costs and material delays. our software is susceptible to errors, which can harm our financial results and reputation. the technological advancements of new hardware platforms result in the development of more complex software products. as software products become more complex, the risk of undetected errors in new products increases. we may need to produce and distribute patches in order to repair such errors, which could be costly and may distract our developers from working on new products. if, despite testing, errors are found in new products or releases after shipments have been made, we could experience a loss of or delay in timely market acceptance, product returns, loss of revenue, increases in costs relating to the repair of such errors and damage to our reputation. if we acquire or invest in other businesses, intellectual properties or other assets, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired and/or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for such transactions. if appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may acquire or make investments in businesses, intellectual properties and other assets that we believe are strategic. we may not be able to identify, negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment successfully. even if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a business, intellectual property or other asset, such acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including: retaining key employees and maintaining the key business and customer relationships of the businesses we acquire; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from an acquired company or business into our organization; 18 table of contents the possibility that the combined company would not achieve the expected benefits, including any anticipated operating and product synergies, of the acquisition as quickly as anticipated or that the costs of, or operational difficulties arising from, an acquisition would be greater than anticipated; significant acquisition-related accounting adjustments, particularly relating to an acquired company's deferred revenue, that may cause reported revenue and profits of the combined company to be lower than the sum of their stand-alone revenue and profits; significant accounting charges resulting from the completion and integration of a sizeable acquisition and increased capital expenditures, including potential impairment charges incurred to write down the carrying amount of intangible assets generated as a result of an acquisition; the possibility that we will not discover important facts during due diligence that could have a material adverse effect on the value of the businesses we acquire, including the possibility that a change of control of a company we acquire triggers a termination of contractual or intellectual property rights important to the operation of its business; the need to integrate an acquired company's accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management and timely reporting, and the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company in an acquired company that, prior to the acquisition, lacked these controls, procedures and policies; litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risks as a result of, an acquisition, including claims from terminated employees, customers or other third-parties; and to the extent that we engage in strategic transactions outside of the united states, we face additional risks, including risks related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. future acquisitions and investments could also involve the issuance of our equity and equity-linked securities (potentially diluting our existing stockholders), the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, write-offs of goodwill, intangibles, or acquired in-process technology, or other increased cash and non-cash expenses such as stock- based compensation. any of the foregoing factors could harm our financial condition or prevent us from achieving improvements in our financial condition and operating performance that could have otherwise been achieved by us on a stand-alone basis. our stockholders may not have the opportunity to review, vote on or evaluate future acquisitions or investments. our ability to acquire and maintain licenses to intellectual property, especially for sports titles, affects our revenue and profitability. competition for these licenses may make them more expensive and increase our costs. certain of our products are based on or incorporate intellectual property owned by others. for example, our 2k sports products include rights licensed from major sports leagues and players' associations. similarly, some of our other titles are based on licenses of popular entertainment products. competition for these licenses is intense. if we are unable to maintain these licenses or obtain additional licenses on reasonable economic terms or with significant commercial value, our revenue and profitability could decline significantly. competition for these licenses may also increase the advances, guarantees and royalties that we must pay to the licensor, which could significantly increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability. in addition, on certain intellectual property licenses, we are subject to guaranteed minimum payments, royalties or standards of performance and may not be able to terminate these agreements prior to their stated expiration. if such licensed products do not generate revenues in excess of such minimum guarantees, our profitability will be adversely affected. 19 table of contents we are subject to contractual covenants which place certain limitations on how we manage our business . our credit agreement (as defined herein) and the indentures governing our convertible notes (as defined herein) limit our ability to take various actions, including incurring additional debt, paying dividends, repurchasing shares and acquiring or disposing of assets or businesses. in addition, we have granted a security interest in connection with certain compensatory arrangements which limits our ability to incur senior debt in excess of certain amounts. accordingly, we may be restricted from taking actions that management believes would be desirable and in the best interests of us and our stockholders. our credit agreement and the indentures also require us to satisfy specified financial and non-financial covenants. a breach of any of the covenants contained in our credit agreement could result in an event of default under the agreement and under the indentures governing our convertible notes and would allow our lenders and noteholders to pursue various remedies, including accelerating the repayment of any outstanding indebtedness. our involvement, and the involvement of some of our former executive officers, in a wide variety of lawsuits, investigations and proceedings has had, and may in the future have, a material adverse effect on us. we and some of our former officers, directors and employees have been the subject of three separate governmental investigations and a substantial amount of litigation and other proceedings relating to the subject matter of those investigations. while these matters have been resolved we may be subject to heightened scrutiny in the future as a result of our historical legal proceedings, including an increased likelihood of a government investigation occurring and an increased likelihood that any such investigation is more extensive than in the past. furthermore, any future fines, restrictions or other penalties imposed as a result of any such investigation may be more severe than those which may be imposed on a company without our history. our business and products are subject to potential legislation. the adoption of such proposed legislation could limit the retail market for our products. several proposals have been made for federal legislation to regulate our industry. such proposals seek to prohibit the sale of products containing content included in some of our games. if any such proposals are enacted into law, it may limit the potential market for some of our games in the united states, and adversely affect our operating results. other countries, such as germany, have adopted laws regulating content both in packaged games and those transmitted over the internet that are stricter than current united states laws. in the united states, proposals have also been made by numerous state legislators to regulate and prohibit the sale of interactive entertainment software products containing certain types of violent or sexual content to under 17 or 18 audiences, such as the state of california's "ultraviolent video games law" that sought to ban the sale or rental of violent video games to minors. while such legislation to date has been enjoined by industry and retail groups or been found unconstitutional, the adoption into law of such legislation in federal and/or in state jurisdictions in which we do significant business could severely limit the retail market for some of our games. we may need additional capital if we incur losses. if we incur losses in the future, we may be required to raise additional capital in order to fund our operations. we could seek to raise capital in a number of ways, including through the issuance of debt or equity, or through other financing arrangements. in october 2011, we entered into a second amended and restated credit agreement (the "credit agreement") which amended and restated our july 2007 credit agreement (as defined herein), which requires us to make periodic interest or other debt service payments. in addition, we issued 4.375% convertible notes due 2014 in june 2009 (the "4.375% convertible notes") and 1.75% convertible notes due 2016 in november 2011 (the "1.75% convertible notes" and together with the 4.375% convertible notes, the "convertible notes"), which require us to make periodic interest payments to the holders of the convertible notes. if we borrow additional funds, further debt service payments would probably be necessary. in addition, the terms of additional debt may 20 table of contents impose significant restrictions on our ability to operate our business. if we seek financing through the sale of equity or equity-based securities (such as our convertible notes), our current stockholders will suffer dilution in their percentage ownership of common stock. we cannot be certain as to our ability to raise additional capital in the future or under what terms capital would be available. if we need to raise capital and are not successful in doing so, we will have to consider other options that may include, but are not limited to, a reduction in our expenditures for internal and external new product development, reductions in overhead expenses, and sales of intellectual property and other assets. these actions, should they become necessary, will likely result in a reduction in the size of our operations and could materially affect the prospects of our business. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill becomes impaired. we are required under u.s. generally accepted accounting principles to review our goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating a requirement to reevaluate whether our goodwill continues to be recoverable, include a significant decline in stock price and market capitalization, slower growth rates in our industry or other materially adverse events. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill is determined. this may adversely affect our operating results. our reported financial results could be adversely affected by the application of existing or future accounting standards to our business as it evolves. our reported financial results are affected by the accounting policies promulgated by the sec and national accounting standards bodies and the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies. for example, standards regarding software revenue recognition have and could further significantly affect the way we account for revenue related to our products and services. we expect that a significant portion of our games will be online- enabled in the future, and we could be required to recognize the related revenue over an extended period of time rather than at the time of sale. as we enhance, expand and diversify our business and product offerings, the application of existing or future financial accounting standards, particularly those relating to the way we account for revenue, could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results although not necessarily on our cash flows. risks relating to our common stock for purposes of this section " risks relating to our common stock," references to "the company," "we," "our," and "us" refer only to take-two interactive software, inc. and not to its subsidiaries. additional issuances of equity securities by us would dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders. we may issue equity or equity-based securities (such as our convertible notes) in the future in connection with acquisitions or strategic transactions, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, including through repayment of outstanding debt, to fund expansion of our operations or for other purposes. to the extent we issue additional equity securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders would be reduced. future sales or other issuances of our common stock could adversely affect its market price. the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect its price. the sale or the availability for sale of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause the price of our common stock to decline. the issuance of shares of our common stock upon conversion of our convertible notes could also adversely affect the price of our common stock. 21 table of contents our stock price has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate significantly. the market price of our common stock historically has been, and we expect will continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations. these fluctuations may be due to factors specific to us including those discussed in the risk factors in this section as well as others not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material, to changes in securities analysts' earnings estimates or ratings, to our results or future financial guidance falling below our expectations and analysts' and investors' expectations, to factors affecting the computer, software, entertainment, media or electronics industries, or to national or international economic conditions. stock markets, in general, have experienced over the years, and continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected market prices for companies such as ours and that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. the convertible senior note hedge and warrant transactions entered into in connection with the offering of our 4.375% convertible notes may affect the value of those notes and our common stock. in connection with the offering of our 4.375% convertible notes, we entered into convertible senior note hedge transactions which are expected to reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the notes. however, we also entered into warrant transactions which could separately have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants. in addition, the counterparties to the hedge and warrant transactions, and/or their respective affiliates, may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock in secondary market transactions at any time prior to the maturity of the 4.375% convertible notes (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of the 4.375% convertible notes). this activity could also cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of our common stock or the 4.375% convertible notes. delaware law, our charter documents and provisions of our debt agreements may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline. we are a delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third-party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. our board has the power, without stockholder approval, to adopt a stockholder rights plan and/or to designate the terms of one or more series of preferred stock and issue shares of preferred stock. in addition, we may under certain circumstances involving a change of control, be obligated to repurchase all or a portion of our convertible notes and any potential acquirer would be required to assume our obligations related to any outstanding convertible notes. we or any possible acquirer may not have available financial resources necessary to repurchase those notes. the ability of our board to create and issue a new series of preferred stock and certain provisions of delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the indenture governing our notes could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market price of our common stock and the value of any outstanding notes. our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to reduce future years' taxes could be substantially limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in the internal revenue code. section 382 of the internal revenue code contains rules that limit the ability of a company to use its net operating loss carryforwards in years after an ownership change, which is generally defined as any change in ownership of more than 50% of its stock over a three-year testing period. these rules generally operate 22 table of contents by focusing on ownership changes among stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of the stock of a company and/or any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by the company. if, as a result of future transactions involving our common stock, including purchases or sales of stock by 5% stockholders, we undergo cumulative ownership changes which exceed 50% over the testing period, our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards would be subject to additional limitations under section 382. generally, if an ownership change occurs, the annual taxable income limitation on the use of net operating loss carryforwards is equal to the product of the applicable long-term tax exempt rate and the value of the company's stock immediately before the ownership change. depending on the resulting limitation, a portion of our net operating loss carryforwards could expire before we would be able to use them. our inability to fully utilize our net operating losses to offset taxable income generated in the future could have a material and negative affect on our future financial position and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential loss arising from fluctuations in market rates and prices. our market risk exposures primarily include fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rate risk historically, fluctuations in interest rates have not had a significant effect on our operating results. under our credit agreement, outstanding balances bear interest at our election of (a) 1.50% to 2.00% above a certain base rate (4.75% at march 31, 2012), or (b) 2.50% to 3.00% above the libor rate (approximately 2.74% at march 31, 2012), with the margin rate subject to the achievement of certain average liquidity levels. changes in market rates may affect our future interest expense if there is an outstanding balance on our line of credit. the 1.75% convertible notes and the 4.375% convertible notes pay interest semi-annually at a fixed rate of 1.75% and 4.375%, respectively, per annum and we expect that there will be no fluctuation related to the convertible notes affecting our cash component of interest expense. for additional details on our convertible notes see note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. foreign currency exchange rate risk we transact business in foreign currencies and are exposed to risks resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. accounts relating to foreign operations are translated into united states dollars using prevailing exchange rates at the relevant period end. translation adjustments are included as a separate component of stockholders' equity. for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2012, our foreign currency translation loss adjustment was approximately $3.8 million. we recognized a foreign currency exchange transaction loss for the fiscal years ended march 31, 2012 and 2010 of $1.3 million and $0.6 million, respectively, and a foreign currency exchange transaction gain in interest and other, net in our consolidated statements of operations for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2011 of $1.4 million. cash flow hedging activities during the fiscal year ended march 31, 2012, we entered into foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency risk associated with forecasted non-functional currency denominated expenses. these transactions, which are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, are accounted for as derivatives whereby the fair value of the contracts is reported as either assets or liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. the effective portion of gains or losses resulting from changes in the fair value of these hedges is initially reported, net of tax, as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders' equity. the gross amount of the effective portion of gains or losses resulting from changes in the fair value of these hedges is subsequently reclassified into cost of goods sold or research and development expenses, as appropriate, in the period when the forecasted transaction is recognized in our consolidated statements of operations. in the event that the gains or losses in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are deemed to be ineffective, the ineffective portion of gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value, if any, is reclassified to interest and other, net, in our consolidated statements of operations. in the event that the underlying forecasted transactions do not occur, or it becomes probable that they will not occur, within the defined hedge period, the gains or losses on the related cash flow hedges are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to interest and other, net, in our consolidated statements of operations. during the fiscal year ended march 31, 2012, all forecasted transactions occurred, and therefore, there were no such gains or losses reclassified into interest and other, net. we do not enter into derivative financial contracts for speculative or trading purposes. as of march 31, 2012, we had $10.2 million of forward contracts outstanding to buy foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars all of which have maturities of less than one year. as of march 31, 2012, the fair value of these outstanding forward contracts was immaterial and is included in prepaid expenses and other. 50 table of contents balance sheet hedging activities we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency risk associated with non-functional currency denominated cash balances and inter-company funding loans, non-functional currency denominated accounts receivable and non-functional currency denominated accounts payable. these transactions are not designated as hedging instruments and are accounted for as derivatives whereby the fair value of the contracts is reported as either assets or liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, and gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair value are reported in interest and other, net, in our consolidated statements of operations. we do not enter into derivative financial contracts for speculative or trading purposes. at march 31, 2012, we had $4.0 million of forward contracts outstanding to buy foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars and $28.3 million of forward contracts outstanding to sell foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars all of which have maturities of less than one year. at march 31, 2011, we had $2.4 million of forward contracts outstanding to buy foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars and $35.5 million of forward contracts outstanding to sell foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars all of which have maturities of less than one year. for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2012, we recorded a gain of $0.7 million and for the fiscal years ended march 31, 2011 and 2010, we recorded losses of $6.9 million and $1.0 million, respectively, related to foreign currency forward contracts in interest and other, net on the consolidated statements of operations. as of march 31, 2012 and 2011, the fair value of these outstanding forward contracts was immaterial and is included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities. our hedging programs are designed to reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the effect of currency exchange rate movements. we believe the counterparties to these foreign currency forward contracts are creditworthy multinational commercial banks and that the risk of counterparty nonperformance is not material. notwithstanding our efforts to mitigate some foreign currency exchange rate risks, there can be no assurance that our hedging activities will adequately protect us against the risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations. for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2012, 45.6% of the company's revenue was generated outside the united states. using sensitivity analysis, a hypothetical 10% increase in the value of the u.s. dollar against all currencies would decrease revenues by 4.6%, while a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of the u.s. dollar against all currencies would increase revenues by 4.6%. in the opinion of management, a substantial portion of this fluctuation would be offset by cost of goods sold and operating expenses incurred in local currency.risk factors 10 risk factors our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. because of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other factors affecting our operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance and our business and financial performance could be harmed and the market value of our securities could decline. risks relating to our business we are dependent on the future success of our grand theft auto products and we must continue to publish "hit" titles or sequels to such "hit" titles in order to compete successfully in our industry. grand theft auto and certain of our other titles are "hit" products and have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our revenue. sales of grand theft auto products generated approximately 11.3% of the company's net revenue for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2013 and the ten best-selling titles (including grand theft auto ) that significantly contributed to the company's net revenue for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2013 in the aggregate accounted for approximately 91.1% of the company's net revenue. if we fail to continue to develop and sell new commercially successful "hit" titles or sequels to such "hit" titles or experience any delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our "hit" titles or their sequels, our revenue and profits may decrease substantially and we may incur losses. in addition, competition in our industry is intense and a relatively small number of hit titles account for a large portion of total revenue in our industry. hit products offered by our competitors may take a larger share of consumer spending than we anticipate, which could cause revenue generated from our products to fall below our expectations. if our competitors develop more successful products or services at lower price points or based on payment models perceived as offering better value, or if we do not continue to develop consistently high quality and well-received products and services, our revenue and profitability may decline. in addition, both the online and mobile games marketplaces are characterized by frequent product introductions, relatively low barriers to entry, and new and evolving business methods, technologies and platforms for development. widespread consumer adoption of these new platforms for games and other technological advances in online or mobile game offerings could negatively affect our sales of console and traditional pc products before we have an opportunity to develop profitable businesses in such markets. we are subject to product development risks which could result in delays and additional costs, and we must adapt to changes in software technologies. we depend on our internal development studios and third-party software developers to develop new interactive entertainment software within anticipated release schedules and cost projections. the development cycle for new titles generally ranges from 12 to more than 24 months, and our top-selling titles could take up to 3 years or longer to develop. development times and costs of current generation software have increased substantially as a result of the additional and enhanced features available in the newest games. further, after development of a product it may take between 9 and 12 additional months to develop the product for other hardware platforms. if our third-party software developers experience unanticipated development delays, financial difficulties or additional costs we will not be able to release titles according to our schedule and at budgeted costs. certain of our licensing and marketing agreements also contain provisions that would impose penalties if we fail to meet agreed upon game release dates. there can be no assurance that our products will be sufficiently successful so that we can recoup these costs or make a profit on these products. additionally, in order to stay competitive, our internal development studios must anticipate and adapt to rapid technological changes affecting software development. any inability to respond to technological advances and implement new technologies could render our products obsolete or less marketable. 10 table of contents the inability of our products to achieve significant market acceptance, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our products may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. new products may not achieve significant market acceptance, generate sufficient sales or be introduced in a timely manner to permit us to recover development, manufacturing and marketing costs associated with these products. the life cycle of a title generally involves a relatively high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. because revenue associated with an initial product launch generally constitutes a high percentage of the total revenue associated with the life of a product, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of one or more new products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cause our operating results to be materially different from our expectations. our business is subject to our ability to develop commercially successful products for the current generation video game platforms and our ability to transition our business model and strategy to the next generation platforms. we derive most of our revenue from the sale of products made for video game platforms manufactured by third-parties, such as sony's ps3, microsoft's xbox 360 and nintendo's wii, which comprised approximately 79.5% of the company's net revenue by product platform for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2013. the success of our business is subject to the continued popularity of these platforms and our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. video game hardware platforms have historically had a life cycle of four to six years and we anticipate a transition to new console platforms in the near future. during any such transitional period, our success will depend on our ability to develop our products and services for these next-generation consoles. this transition may require significant costs and management resources. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully transition our business model and strategy to these new platforms. further, the hardware manufacturers are not required to enter into agreements with us with respect to new consoles and these manufacturers may choose to impose more restrictive terms or adopt very different business models and fee structures. as a result, the transition to new platforms could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial statements. connectivity issues related to digital delivery platforms could affect our ability to sell and provide online services for our products and could affect our profitability. we rely upon third-party digital delivery platforms, such as steam, microsoft's xbox live and sony entertainment network, to provide connectivity from the consumer to our digital products and our online services. connectivity issues could prevent customers from accessing this content and our ability to successfully market and sell our products could be adversely affected. in addition, we could experience similar issues related to services we host on our internal servers. such issues also could affect our ability to provide online services and could affect our business. our business could be adversely affected if our consumer data protection measures are not seen as adequate or there are breaches of our security measures or unintended disclosures of our consumer data. we are collecting and storing consumer information, including personal information and credit card information. we take measures to protect our consumer data from unauthorized access or disclosure. it is possible that our security controls over consumer data may not prevent the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information. in addition, due to the high profile nature of our products, we may draw a disproportionately higher amount of attention and attempts to breach our security controls than companies with lower profile products. a security breach that leads to disclosure of consumer account information (including personally identifiable information) could harm our reputation, compel us to comply with disparate breach notification laws in various jurisdictions and otherwise subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. a resulting 11 table of contents perception that our products or services do not adequately protect the privacy of personal information could result in a loss of current or potential consumers and business partners. in addition, if any of our business partners experience a security breach that leads to disclosure of consumer account information, our reputation could be harmed, resulting in loss of revenue. the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the u.s., europe and elsewhere are often uncertain, contradictory and in flux. it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. if so, this could result in government imposed fines or orders requiring that we change our data practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business. complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. in addition, certain of our products are online-enabled. the ability of our products to offer online functionality, and our ability to offer content through a video game platform's digital distribution channel, is dependent upon the continued operation and security of such platform's online network. these third-party networks, as well as our own internal systems and websites, and the security measures related thereto may be breached as a result of third-party action, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and result in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our customers' data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information, or our information technology systems. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. if an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, we may lose business, suffer irreparable damage to our reputation, and/or incur significant costs and expenses relating to the investigation and possible litigation of claims relating to such event. security breaches involving the source code for our products could adversely affect our revenues. we securely store the source code for our interactive entertainment software products as it is created. a breach, whether physical, electronic or otherwise, of the systems on which such source code and other sensitive data are stored could lead to damage or piracy of our software. if we are subject to data security breaches, we may have a loss in sales or increased costs arising from the restoration or implementation of additional security measures which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. any theft and/or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an event could adversely affect our competitive position, reputation, brand and future sales of our products. our business could be subject to significant disruption, and we could suffer monetary and other losses and reputational harm, in the event of such incidents and claims. if we are unable to sustain launch pricing on current generation titles, our operating results may suffer. the interactive entertainment software and hardware industry is characterized by the introduction of new and enhanced generations of products and evolving industry standards. current generation titles for the ps3, xbox 360 and wii have been offered at premium retail prices since the launch of such consoles. we expect to continue to price current generation titles at a premium level. however, circumstances may arise in which we may need to reduce prices for such titles. if we are unable to sustain launch pricing on these current generation titles, it will have a material adverse effect on our margins, profitability and operating results. our efforts to expand into new products and services may subject us to additional risks. in recent years, we have invested in emerging opportunities in interactive entertainment played on mobile platforms, including tablets and smartphones, and online platforms, including social networks. we have also grown our product offerings that are available through digital download. we are actively investing to 12 table of contents capitalize on these trends in order to diversify our product mix, reduce our operating risks, and increase our revenue. there are risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. there is no assurance that we will be able to attract a sufficiently large number of customers or recover costs incurred for developing and marketing these new products or services. external factors, such as competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of any new products or services. failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial statements. we depend on our key management and product development personnel. our continued success will depend to a significant extent on our senior management team and our relationship with zelnickmedia corporation ("zelnickmedia"). our executive chairman and chief executive officer and president are partners of zelnickmedia. we are also highly dependent on the expertise, skills and knowledge of certain of our rockstar employees and other key creative personnel responsible for content creation and development of our grand theft auto titles and titles based on other brands. we may not be able to continue to retain these personnel at current compensation levels, or at all. the loss of the services of our executive officers, zelnickmedia, our key rockstar employees or other key creative personnel could significantly harm our business. in addition, if one or more key employees were to join a competitor or form a competing company, we may lose additional personnel, experience material interruptions in product development, delays in bringing products to market and difficulties in our relationships with licensors, suppliers and customers, which would significantly harm our business. failure to continue to attract and retain other qualified management and creative personnel could adversely affect our business and prospects. declines in consumer spending and other adverse changes in the economy could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. most of our products involve discretionary spending on the part of consumers. we believe that consumer spending is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. this makes our products particularly sensitive to general economic conditions and economic cycles as consumers are generally more willing to make discretionary purchases, including purchases of products like ours, during periods in which favorable economic conditions prevail. adverse economic conditions such as a prolonged u.s. or international general economic downturn, including periods of increased inflation, unemployment levels, tax rates, interest rates, energy prices or declining consumer confidence could also reduce consumer spending. reduced consumer spending has and may continue to result in reduced demand for our products and may also require increased selling and promotional expenses, which has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, during periods of relative economic weakness, our consolidated credit risk, reflecting our counterparty dealings with distributors, customers, capital providers and others may increase, perhaps materially so. furthermore, uncertainty and adverse changes in the economy could also increase the risk of material losses on our investments, increase costs associated with developing and publishing our products, increase the cost and availability of sources of financing, and increase our exposure to material losses from bad debts, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. if economic conditions worsen, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and in various other jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes, and in the ordinary course of business 13 table of contents there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are required to estimate future taxes. although we currently believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the estimate process is inherently uncertain, and such estimates are not binding on tax authorities. further, our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including changes in the business, including the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax elections, and changes in applicable tax laws. additionally, tax determinations are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities and developments in those audits could adversely affect our income tax provision. should the ultimate tax liability exceed estimates, our income tax provision and net income or loss could be adversely affected. beginning in fiscal year 2006, we recorded a valuation allowance against most of our u.s. deferred tax assets. we expect to provide a valuation allowance on future u.s. tax benefits until we can sustain a level of profitability or until other significant positive evidence arises that suggest that these benefits are more likely than not to be realized. further, our tax determinations are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities and developments in those audits could adversely affect our income tax provision. should our ultimate tax liability exceed our estimates, our income tax provision and net income or loss could be materially affected. we earn a significant amount of our operating income, and hold a significant portion of our cash, outside the u.s. any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions may result in higher effective tax rates for the company. in addition, there have been proposals to change u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form this proposed legislation will pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse impact on our income tax provision and financial condition. we are also required to pay taxes other than income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions. we are regularly under examination by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations, changes in our business or changes in applicable tax rules will not have an adverse effect on our net income or loss and financial condition. our quarterly operating results are dependent on the release of "hit" titles and are highly seasonal which may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate significantly. we have experienced and may continue to experience wide fluctuations in quarterly operating results. the release of a "hit" title typically leads to a high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. in addition, the interactive entertainment industry is highly seasonal, with sales typically higher during the fourth calendar quarter, due primarily to increased demand for games during the holiday season. demand for and sales of our sports titles are also seasonal in that they are typically released just prior to the start of the sport season which they depict. if a key event or sports season to which our product release schedule is tied were to be delayed or cancelled, our sales would also suffer disproportionately. our failure or inability to produce "hit" titles or introduce products on a timely basis to meet seasonal fluctuations in demand could adversely affect our business and operating results. the uncertainties associated with software development, manufacturing lead times, production delays and the approval process for products by hardware manufacturers and other licensors make it difficult to predict the quarter in which our products will ship and therefore may cause us to fail to meet financial expectations. returns of our published titles by our customers and price concessions granted to our customers may adversely affect our operating results. we are exposed to the risk of product returns and price concessions with respect to our customers. our distribution arrangements with customers generally do not give them the right to return titles to us or to 14 table of contents cancel firm orders. however, we sometimes accept product returns from our distribution customers for stock balancing and negotiate accommodations for customers, which include credits and returns, when demand for specific products falls below expectations. we accept returns and grant price concessions in connection with our publishing arrangements and revenue is recognized after deducting estimated reserves for returns and price concessions. while we believe that we can reliably estimate future returns and price concessions, if return rates and price concessions for our products exceed our reserves, our revenue could decline. increased sales of used video game products could lower our sales. certain of our larger customers sell used video games, which are generally priced lower than new video games. if our customers continue to increase their sales of used video games, it could negatively affect our sales of new video games and have an adverse influence on our operating results. a limited number of customers account for a significant portion of our sales. the loss of a principal customer could seriously hurt our business. a substantial portion of our product sales are made to a limited number of customers. sales to our five largest customers during the fiscal year ended march 31, 2013 accounted for approximately 52.5% of our net revenue, with gamestop accounting for 23.8%. our sales are made primarily pursuant to purchase orders without long-term agreements or other commitments, and our customers may terminate their relationship with us at any time. certain of our customers may decline to carry products containing mature content. the loss of our relationships with principal customers or a decline in sales to principal customers, including as a result of a product being rated "ao" (age 18 and over), could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. furthermore, our customers may also be placed into bankruptcy, become insolvent or be liquidated due to economic downturns, global contractions of credit or for other factors. bankruptcies or consolidations of certain large retail customers could seriously hurt our business, including as a result of uncollectible accounts receivable from such customers and the concentration of purchasing power among remaining large retailers. in addition, our results of operations may be adversely affected if certain of our customers who purchase on credit terms are no longer eligible to purchase on such terms due to their financial distress, which may reduce the quantity of products they demand from us. if our marketing and advertising efforts fail to resonate with our customers, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. our products are marketed worldwide through a diverse spectrum of advertising and promotional programs such as television and online advertising, print advertising, retail merchandising, website development and event sponsorship. our ability to sell our products and services is dependent in part on the success of these programs. if the marketing for our products and services fails to resonate with our customers, particularly during the holiday season or other key selling periods, or if advertising rates or other media placement costs increase, these factors could have a material adverse influence on our business and operating results. the interactive entertainment software industry is highly competitive. we compete for both licenses to properties and the sale of interactive entertainment software with sony, microsoft and nintendo, each of which is a large developer and marketer of software for its own platforms. we also compete with domestic game publishers, such as activision blizzard and electronic arts and international publishers, such as capcom, konami, namco-bandai, sega, square enix and ubisoft. as our business is dependent upon our ability to develop hit titles, which require increasing budgets for development and marketing, the availability of significant financial resources has become a major competitive factor in developing and marketing software games. some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, personnel and other resources than we do and are able to finance larger budgets for 15 table of contents development and marketing and make higher offers to licensors and developers for commercially desirable properties. our titles also compete with other forms of entertainment, such as social media and casual games, in addition to motion pictures, television and audio and video products featuring similar themes, online computer programs and other entertainment, which may be less expensive or provide other advantages to consumers. a number of software publishers who compete with us have developed and commercialized or are currently developing online games for use by consumers over the internet. if technological advances significantly increase the availability of online games and if consumer acceptance of online gaming grows substantially, it could result in a decline in our platform-based software sales and negatively affect sales of such products. increased competition for limited shelf space and promotional support from retailers could affect the success of our business and require us to incur greater expenses to market our titles. retailers have limited shelf space and promotional resources and competition is intense among newly introduced interactive entertainment software titles for adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support. competition for retail shelf space is expected to continue to increase, which may require us to increase our marketing expenditures to maintain desirable sales levels of our titles. competitors with more extensive lines and more popular titles may have greater bargaining power with retailers. accordingly, we may not be able, or we may have to pay more than our competitors, to achieve similar levels of promotional support and shelf space. our business is dependent on our ability to enter into successful software development arrangements with third-parties. our success depends on our ability to continually identify and develop new titles on a timely basis. we rely on third-party software developers for the development of some of our titles. quality third-party developers are continually in high demand. software developers who have developed titles for us in the past may not be available to develop software for us in the future. due to the limited number of third-party software developers and the limited control that we exercise over them, these developers may not be able to complete titles for us on a timely basis or within acceptable quality standards, if at all. we have entered into agreements with third-parties to acquire the rights to publish and distribute interactive entertainment software as well as to use licensed intellectual properties in our titles. these agreements typically require us to make development payments, pay royalties and satisfy other conditions. our development payments may not be sufficient to permit developers to develop new software successfully, which could result in material delays and significantly increase our costs to bring particular products to market. software development costs, promotion and marketing expenses and royalties payable to software developers and third-party licensors have increased significantly in recent years and reduce potential profits derived from sales of our software. future sales of our titles may not be sufficient to recover development payments and advances to software developers and licensors, and we may not have adequate financial and other resources to satisfy our contractual commitments to such developers. if we fail to satisfy our obligations under agreements with third-party developers and licensors, the agreements may be terminated or modified in ways that are burdensome to us, and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. we cannot publish our titles without the approval of hardware licensors that are also our competitors. we are required to obtain licenses from sony, microsoft and nintendo, which are also our competitors, to develop and publish titles for their respective hardware platforms. our existing platform licenses require that we obtain approval for the publication of new titles on a title-by-title basis. as a result, the number of titles we are able to publish for these hardware platforms, our ability to manage the timing of the release of these titles and, accordingly, our net revenue from titles for these hardware platforms, may be limited. if a 16 table of contents licensor chooses not to renew or extend our license agreement at the end of its current term, or if a licensor were to terminate our license for any reason or does not approve one or more of our titles, we may be unable to publish that title as well as additional titles for that licensor's platform. termination of any such agreements or disapproval of titles could seriously hurt our business and prospects. we may be unable to continue to enter into license agreements for certain current generation platforms on satisfactory terms or at all. failure to enter into any such agreement could also seriously hurt our business. our platform licensors control the fee structures for online distribution of our games on their platforms. certain platform licensors have retained the right to change the fee structures for online distribution of both paid content and free content (including patches and corrections) on their platforms. each licensor's ability to set royalty rates may increase costs, which could negatively affect our operating margins. we may be unable to distribute our content in a cost-effective or profitable manner through this distribution channel, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. we may not be able to adequately adjust our cost structure in a timely fashion in response to a sudden decrease in demand. in the event of a significant decline in revenue, we may not be able to dispose of facilities, reduce personnel or make other changes to our cost structure without disruption to our operations or without significant termination and exit costs. management may not be able to implement such actions in a timely manner, if at all, to offset an immediate shortfall in revenue and profit. moreover, reducing costs may impair our ability to produce and develop software titles at sufficient levels in the future. we submit our products for rating by the entertainment software rating board ("esrb") in the united states and other voluntary or government ratings organizations in foreign countries. failure to obtain a target rating for certain of our products could negatively affect our ability to distribute and sell those games, as could the re-rating of a game for any reason. we voluntarily submit our game products to the esrb, a u.s.-based non-profit and independent ratings organization. the esrb system provides consumers with information about game content using a rating symbol that generally suggests the appropriate player age group and specific content descriptors, such as graphic violence, profanity or sexually explicit material. the esrb may impose significant penalties on game publishers for violations of its rules related to rating or marketing games, including revocation of a rating or monetary fines up to $1 million. other countries require voluntary or government backed ratings as prerequisites for product sales. in some instances, we may have to modify our products in order to market them under the target rating, which could delay or disrupt the release of our products. in addition, some of our titles may not be sold at all or without extensive edits in certain countries, such as germany. in the united states, if the esrb rates a game as "ao" (age 18 and older), platform licensors may not certify the game and retailers may refuse to sell it. in addition, some consumers have reacted to re-ratings or controversial game content by refusing to purchase such games, demanding refunds for games that they had already purchased, and refraining from buying other games published by us. many of our rockstar titles and certain of our 2k titles have been rated "m" (age 17 and older) by the esrb. if we are unable to obtain "m" ratings and instead receive "ao" ratings on future versions of those or similar titles as a result of changes in the esrb's ratings standards or for other reasons, including the adoption of legislation in this area, our business and prospects could be negatively affected. if any of our games are re-rated by the esrb or other foreign based ratings organizations, we could be exposed to litigation, administrative fines and penalties and other potential liabilities, and our operating results and financial condition could be significantly affected. 17 table of contents we have implemented processes to comply with the requirements of the esrb and other ratings organizations and properly display the designated rating symbols and content descriptions. nonetheless, these processes are subject to human error, circumvention, overriding and reasonable resource constraints. if a video game we published were found to contain undisclosed pertinent content, the esrb could re-rate a game, retailers could refuse to sell it and demand that we accept the return of any unsold copies or returns from customers, and consumers could refuse to buy it or demand that we refund their money. this could have a material negative affect on our operating results and financial condition. in addition, we may be exposed to litigation, administrative fines and penalties and our reputation could be harmed, which could affect sales of other video games we sell. if any of these consequences were to occur, our business and financial performance could be significantly harmed. content policies adopted by retailers, consumer opposition and litigation could negatively affect sales of our products. retailers may decline to sell interactive entertainment software containing what they judge to be graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other content that they deem inappropriate for their businesses. if retailers decline to sell our products based upon their opinion that they contain objectionable themes, graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other generally objectionable content, or if any of our previously "m" rated series products are rated "ao," we might be required to significantly change or discontinue particular titles or series, which in the case of our best-selling grand theft auto titles could seriously affect our business. consumer advocacy groups have opposed sales of interactive entertainment software containing objectionable themes, violence or sexual material or other objectionable content by pressing for legislation in these areas and by engaging in public demonstrations and media campaigns. additionally, although lawsuits seeking damages for injuries allegedly suffered by third-parties as a result of video games have generally been unsuccessful in the courts, claims of this kind have been asserted against us from time to time and may be asserted and be successful in the future. we are subject to risks and uncertainties of international trade, including fluctuations in the values of local foreign currencies against the dollar. sales in international markets, primarily in europe, have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenue. note 15 to our consolidated financial statements, "segment and geographic information," discloses that sales in europe comprised approximately 27.0% of the company's net revenue for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2013. we have also expanded our asian operations in an effort to increase our geographical scope and diversify our revenue base. we are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased credit risks, tariffs and duties, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, shipping delays, and international political, regulatory and economic developments, all of which can have a significant influence on our operating results. many of our international sales are made in local currencies, which could fluctuate against the dollar. while we may use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our operating results could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. we face risks from our international operations. we are subject to certain risks because of our international operations, particularly as we continue to grow our business and presence in asia, latin america and other parts of the world. changes to and compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations may increase our cost of doing business and our inability or failure to obtain required approvals could harm our international and domestic sales. trade legislation in either the united states or other countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, import/export compliance laws or other trade laws or policies, could adversely affect our ability to sell or to distribute in international markets. we incur additional legal compliance costs associated with our international operations and could become subject to legal penalties in foreign countries if we do not comply with local 18 table of contents laws and regulations which may be substantially different from those in the united states. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by united states laws and regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, and by local laws, such as laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials. although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, including those based in or from countries where practices which violate such laws may be customary, will not take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. if we are unable to protect the intellectual property relating to our software, the commercial value of our products will be adversely affected and our competitive position could be harmed. we develop proprietary software and have obtained the rights to publish and distribute software developed by third-parties. we attempt to protect our software and production techniques under copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as well as through contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and distribution. our software is susceptible to piracy and unauthorized copying. unauthorized third-parties may be able to copy or to reverse engineer our software to obtain and use programming or production techniques that we regard as proprietary. well organized piracy operations have also proliferated in recent years, resulting in the ability to download pirated copies of our software over the internet. although we attempt to incorporate protective measures into our software, piracy of our products could negatively affect our future profitability. if we infringe on or are alleged to infringe on the intellectual property rights of third-parties, our business could be adversely affected. as our industry grows, we may be subject to an increasing amount of litigation that is common in the software industry based on allegations of infringement or other alleged violations of patent, copyright and/or trademarks. in addition, we believe that interactive entertainment software will increasingly become the subject of claims that such software infringes on the intellectual property rights of others with both the growth of online functionality and advances in technology, game content and software graphics as games become more realistic. from time to time, we receive notices from third-parties or are named in lawsuits by third-parties alleging infringement of their proprietary rights. although we believe that our software and technologies and the software and technologies of third-party developers and publishers with whom we have contractual relations do not and will not infringe or violate proprietary rights of others, it is possible that infringement of proprietary rights of others may occur. any claims of infringement, with or without merit, could be time consuming, costly and difficult to defend. moreover, intellectual property litigation or claims could require us to discontinue the distribution of products, obtain a license or redesign our products, which could result in additional substantial costs and material delays. our software is susceptible to errors, which can harm our financial results and reputation. the technological advancements of new hardware platforms result in the development of more complex software products. as software products become more complex, the risk of undetected errors in new products increases. we may need to produce and distribute patches in order to repair such errors, which could be costly and may distract our developers from working on new products. if, despite testing, errors are found in new products or releases after shipments have been made, we could experience a loss of or delay in timely market acceptance, product returns, loss of revenue, increases in costs relating to the repair of such errors and damage to our reputation. 19 table of contents if we acquire or invest in other businesses, intellectual properties or other assets, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired and/or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for such transactions. if appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may acquire or make investments in businesses, intellectual properties and other assets that we believe are strategic. we may not be able to identify, negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment successfully. even if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a business, intellectual property or other asset, such acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including: retaining key employees and maintaining the key business and customer relationships of the businesses we acquire; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from an acquired company or business into our organization; the possibility that the combined company would not achieve the expected benefits, including any anticipated operating and product synergies, of the acquisition as quickly as anticipated or that the costs of, or operational difficulties arising from, an acquisition would be greater than anticipated; significant acquisition-related accounting adjustments, particularly relating to an acquired company's deferred revenue, that may cause reported revenue and profits of the combined company to be lower than the sum of their stand-alone revenue and profits; significant accounting charges resulting from the completion and integration of a sizeable acquisition and increased capital expenditures, including potential impairment charges incurred to write down the carrying amount of intangible assets generated as a result of an acquisition; the possibility that we will not discover important facts during due diligence that could have a material adverse effect on the value of the businesses we acquire, including the possibility that a change of control of a company we acquire triggers a termination of contractual or intellectual property rights important to the operation of its business; the need to integrate an acquired company's accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management and timely reporting, and the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company in an acquired company that, prior to the acquisition, lacked these controls, procedures and policies; litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risks as a result of, an acquisition, including claims from terminated employees, customers or other third-parties; and to the extent that we engage in strategic transactions outside of the united states, we face additional risks, including risks related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. future acquisitions and investments could also involve the issuance of our equity and equity-linked securities (potentially diluting our existing stockholders), the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, write-offs of goodwill, intangibles, or acquired in-process technology, or other increased cash and non-cash expenses such as stock- based compensation. any of the foregoing factors could harm our financial condition or prevent us from achieving improvements in our financial condition and operating performance that could have otherwise been achieved by us on a stand-alone basis. our stockholders may not have the opportunity to review, vote on or evaluate future acquisitions or investments. 20 table of contents our ability to acquire and maintain licenses to intellectual property, especially for sports titles, affects our revenue and profitability. competition for these licenses may make them more expensive and increase our costs. certain of our products are based on or incorporate intellectual property owned by others. for example, certain of our 2k products include rights licensed from major sports leagues and players' associations. similarly, some of our other titles are based on licenses of popular entertainment products. competition for these licenses is intense. if we are unable to maintain these licenses or obtain additional licenses on reasonable economic terms or with significant commercial value, our revenue and profitability could decline significantly. competition for these licenses may also increase the advances, guarantees and royalties that we must pay to the licensor, which could significantly increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability. in addition, on certain intellectual property licenses, we are subject to guaranteed minimum payments, royalties or standards of performance and may not be able to terminate these agreements prior to their stated expiration. if such licensed products do not generate revenues in excess of such minimum guarantees, our profitability will be adversely affected. we are subject to contractual covenants which place certain limitations on how we manage our business . our credit agreement (as defined herein) and the indentures governing our convertible notes (as defined herein) limit our ability to take various actions, including incurring additional debt, paying dividends, repurchasing shares and acquiring or disposing of assets or businesses. in addition, we have granted a security interest in connection with certain compensatory arrangements which limits our ability to incur senior debt in excess of certain amounts. accordingly, we may be restricted from taking actions that management believes would be desirable and in the best interests of us and our stockholders. our credit agreement and the indentures also require us to satisfy specified financial and non-financial covenants. a breach of any of the covenants contained in our credit agreement could result in an event of default under the agreement and under the indentures governing our convertible notes and would allow our lenders and noteholders to pursue various remedies, including accelerating the repayment of any outstanding indebtedness. our involvement, and the involvement of some of our former executive officers, in a wide variety of lawsuits, investigations and proceedings has had, and may in the future have, a material adverse effect on us. we and some of our former officers, directors and employees have been the subject of three separate governmental investigations and a substantial amount of litigation and other proceedings relating to the subject matter of those investigations. while these matters have been resolved we may be subject to heightened scrutiny in the future as a result of our historical legal proceedings, including an increased likelihood of a government investigation occurring and an increased likelihood that any such investigation is more extensive than in the past. furthermore, any future fines, restrictions or other penalties imposed as a result of any such investigation may be more severe than those which may be imposed on a company without our history. our business and products are subject to potential legislation. the adoption of such proposed legislation could limit the retail market for our products. several proposals have been made for federal legislation to regulate our industry. such proposals seek to prohibit the sale of products containing content included in some of our games. if any such proposals are enacted into law, it may limit the potential market for some of our games in the united states, and adversely affect our operating results. other countries, such as germany, have adopted laws regulating content both in packaged games and those transmitted over the internet that are stricter than current united states laws. in the united states, proposals have also been made by numerous state legislators to regulate and prohibit the sale of interactive entertainment software products containing certain types of violent or sexual content to under 17 or 18 audiences, such as the state of california's "ultraviolent video games law" that sought to ban the sale or rental of violent video games to minors. while such legislation to 21 table of contents date has been enjoined by industry and retail groups or been found unconstitutional, the adoption into law of such legislation in federal and/or in state jurisdictions in which we do significant business could severely limit the retail market for some of our games. we may need additional capital if we incur losses. if we incur losses in the future, we may be required to raise additional capital in order to fund our operations. we could seek to raise capital in a number of ways, including through the issuance of debt or equity, or through other financing arrangements. in october 2011, we entered into a second amended and restated credit agreement (the "credit agreement") which amended and restated our july 2007 credit agreement (as defined herein), which requires us to make periodic interest or other debt service payments. in addition, we issued 4.375% convertible notes due 2014 in june 2009 (the "4.375% convertible notes") and 1.75% convertible notes due 2016 in november 2011 (the "1.75% convertible notes" and together with the 4.375% convertible notes, the "convertible notes"), which require us to make periodic interest payments to the holders of the convertible notes. if we borrow additional funds, further debt service payments would probably be necessary. in addition, the terms of additional debt may impose significant restrictions on our ability to operate our business. if we seek financing through the sale of equity or equity-based securities (such as our convertible notes), our current stockholders will suffer dilution in their percentage ownership of common stock. we cannot be certain as to our ability to raise additional capital in the future or under what terms capital would be available. if we need to raise capital and are not successful in doing so, we will have to consider other options that may include, but are not limited to, a reduction in our expenditures for internal and external new product development, reductions in overhead expenses, and sales of intellectual property and other assets. these actions, should they become necessary, will likely result in a reduction in the size of our operations and could materially affect the prospects of our business. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill becomes impaired. we are required under u.s. generally accepted accounting principles to review our goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating a requirement to reevaluate whether our goodwill continues to be recoverable, include a significant decline in stock price and market capitalization, slower growth rates in our industry or other materially adverse events. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill is determined. this may adversely affect our operating results. our reported financial results could be adversely affected by the application of existing or future accounting standards to our business as it evolves. our reported financial results are affected by the accounting policies promulgated by the sec and national accounting standards bodies and the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies. for example, standards regarding software revenue recognition have and could further significantly affect the way we account for revenue related to our products and services. we expect that a significant portion of our games will be online-enabled in the future, and we could be required to recognize the related revenue over an extended period of time rather than at the time of sale. as we enhance, expand and diversify our business and product offerings, the application of existing or future financial accounting standards, particularly those relating to the way we account for revenue, could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results although not necessarily on our cash flows. 22 table of contents risks relating to our common stock for purposes of this section " risks relating to our common stock," references to "the company," "we," "our," and "us" refer only to take-two interactive software, inc. and not to its subsidiaries. additional issuances of equity securities by us would dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders. we may issue equity or equity-based securities (such as our convertible notes) in the future in connection with acquisitions or strategic transactions, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, including through repayment of outstanding debt, to fund expansion of our operations or for other purposes. to the extent we issue additional equity securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders would be reduced. future sales or other issuances of our common stock could adversely affect its market price. the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect its price. the sale or the availability for sale of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause the price of our common stock to decline. the issuance of shares of our common stock upon conversion of our convertible notes could also adversely affect the price of our common stock. our stock price has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate significantly. the market price of our common stock historically has been, and we expect will continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations. these fluctuations may be due to factors specific to us including those discussed in the risk factors in this section as well as others not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material, to changes in securities analysts' earnings estimates or ratings, to our results or future financial guidance falling below our expectations and analysts' and investors' expectations, to factors affecting the computer, software, entertainment, media or electronics industries, or to national or international economic conditions. stock markets, in general, have experienced over the years, and continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected market prices for companies such as ours and that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. the convertible senior note hedge and warrant transactions entered into in connection with the offering of our 4.375% convertible notes may affect the value of those notes and our common stock. in connection with the offering of our 4.375% convertible notes, we entered into convertible senior note hedge transactions which are expected to reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the notes. however, we also entered into warrant transactions which could separately have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants. in addition, the counterparties to the hedge and warrant transactions, and/or their respective affiliates, may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock in secondary market transactions at any time prior to the maturity of the 4.375% convertible notes (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of the 4.375% convertible notes). this activity could also cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of our common stock or the 4.375% convertible notes. 23 table of contents delaware law, our charter documents and provisions of our debt agreements may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline. we are a delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third-party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. our board has the power, without stockholder approval, to adopt a stockholder rights plan and/or to designate the terms of one or more series of preferred stock and issue shares of preferred stock. in addition, we may under certain circumstances involving a change of control, be obligated to repurchase all or a portion of our convertible notes and any potential acquirer would be required to assume our obligations related to any outstanding convertible notes. we or any possible acquirer may not have available financial resources necessary to repurchase those notes. the ability of our board to create and issue a new series of preferred stock and certain provisions of delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the indenture governing our notes could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market price of our common stock and the value of any outstanding notes. our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to reduce future years' taxes could be substantially limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in the internal revenue code. section 382 of the internal revenue code contains rules that limit the ability of a company to use its net operating loss carryforwards in years after an ownership change, which is generally defined as any change in ownership of more than 50% of its stock over a three-year testing period. these rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes among stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of the stock of a company and/or any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by the company. if, as a result of future transactions involving our common stock, including purchases or sales of stock by 5% stockholders, we undergo cumulative ownership changes which exceed 50% over the testing period, our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards would be subject to additional limitations under section 382. generally, if an ownership change occurs, the annual taxable income limitation on the use of net operating loss carryforwards is equal to the product of the applicable long-term tax exempt rate and the value of the company's stock immediately before the ownership change. depending on the resulting limitation, a portion of our net operating loss carryforwards could expire before we would be able to use them. our inability to fully utilize our net operating losses to offset taxable income generated in the future could have a material and negative affect on our future financial position and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential loss arising from fluctuations in market rates and prices. our market risk exposures primarily include fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rate risk historically, fluctuations in interest rates have not had a significant effect on our operating results. under our credit agreement, outstanding balances bear interest at our election of (a) 1.50% to 2.00% above a certain base rate (4.75% at march 31, 2013), or (b) 2.50% to 3.00% above the libor rate (approximately 2.70% at march 31, 2013), with the margin rate subject to the achievement of certain average liquidity levels. changes in market rates may affect our future interest expense if there is an outstanding balance on our line of credit. the 1.75% convertible notes and the 4.375% convertible notes pay interest semi-annually at a fixed rate of 1.75% and 4.375%, respectively, per annum and we expect that there will be no fluctuation related to the convertible notes affecting our cash component of interest expense. for additional details on our convertible notes see note 11 to our consolidated financial statements. foreign currency exchange rate risk we transact business in foreign currencies and are exposed to risks resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. accounts relating to foreign operations are translated into united states dollars using prevailing exchange rates at the relevant period end. translation adjustments are included as a separate component of stockholders' equity. for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2013, our foreign currency translation loss adjustment was approximately $11.6 million. we recognized a foreign currency exchange transaction loss for the fiscal years ended march 31, 2013 and 2012 of $0.8 million and $1.3 million, respectively, and a foreign currency exchange transaction gain in interest and other, net in our consolidated statements of operations for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2011 of $1.4 million. cash flow hedging activities we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with forecasted transactions involving non-functional currency denominated expenditures. these contracts, which are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, are accounted for as derivatives whereby the fair value of the contracts is reported as either assets or liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. the effective portion of gains or losses resulting from changes in the fair value of these hedges is initially reported, net of tax, as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders' equity. the gross amount of the effective portion of gains or losses resulting from changes in the fair value of these hedges is subsequently reclassified into cost of goods sold or research and development expenses, as appropriate, in the period when the forecasted transaction is recognized in our consolidated statements of operations. in the event that the gains or losses in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are deemed to be ineffective, the ineffective portion of gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value, if any, is reclassified to interest and other, net, in our consolidated statements of operations. in the event that the underlying forecasted transactions do not occur, or it becomes probable that they will not occur, within the defined hedge period, the gains or losses on the related cash flow hedges are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to interest and other, net, in our consolidated statements of operations. during the reporting periods, all forecasted transactions occurred, and therefore, there were no such gains or losses reclassified into interest and other, net. we do not enter into derivative financial contracts for speculative or trading purposes. at march 31, 2013 and 2012, we had $7.9 million and $10.2 million, respectively, of forward contracts outstanding to buy foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars all of which have maturities of less than one year. as of march 31, 2013 and 2012, the fair value of these outstanding forward contracts was immaterial and is included in prepaid expenses and other. the fair value of these outstanding forward contracts is estimated based on the prevailing exchange rates of the various hedged currencies as of the end of the period. 51 table of contents balance sheet hedging activities we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with non-functional currency denominated cash balances and inter-company funding loans, non-functional currency denominated accounts receivable and non-functional currency denominated accounts payable. these transactions are not designated as hedging instruments and are accounted for as derivatives whereby the fair value of the contracts is reported as either assets or liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, and gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair value are reported in interest and other, net, in our consolidated statements of operations. we do not enter into derivative financial contracts for speculative or trading purposes. at march 31, 2013, we had $55.4 million of forward contracts outstanding to sell foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars all of which have maturities of less than one year. at march 31, 2012, we had $4.0 million of forward contracts outstanding to buy foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars and $28.3 million of forward contracts outstanding to sell foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars all of which have maturities of less than one year. for the fiscal years ended march 31, 2013 and 2012, we recorded gains of $2.2 million and $0.7 million, respectively, and for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2011, we recorded a loss of $6.9 million related to foreign currency forward contracts in interest and other, net on the consolidated statements of operations. as of march 31, 2013 and 2012, the fair value of these outstanding forward contracts was immaterial and is included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities. the fair value of these outstanding forward contracts is estimated based on the prevailing exchange rates of the various hedged currencies as of the end of the period. our hedging programs are designed to reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the effect of currency exchange rate movements. we believe the counterparties to these foreign currency forward contracts are creditworthy multinational commercial banks and that the risk of counterparty nonperformance is not material. notwithstanding our efforts to mitigate some foreign currency exchange rate risks, there can be no assurance that our hedging activities will adequately protect us against the risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations. for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2013, 41.5% of the company's revenue was generated outside the united states. using sensitivity analysis, a hypothetical 10% increase in the value of the u.s. dollar against all currencies would decrease revenues by 4.2%, while a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of the u.s. dollar against all currencies would increase revenues by 4.2%. in the opinion of management, a substantial portion of this fluctuation would be offset by cost of goods sold and operating expenses incurred in local currency.risk factors 10 risk factors our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. because of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other factors affecting our operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance and our business and financial performance could be harmed and the market value of our securities could decline. risks relating to our business we are dependent on the future success of our grand theft auto products and we must continue to publish "hit" titles or sequels to such "hit" titles in order to compete successfully in our industry. grand theft auto and certain of our other titles are "hit" products and have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our revenue. sales of grand theft auto products generated approximately 68.9% of the company's net revenue for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2014 and the ten best-selling franchises (including grand theft auto ) that significantly contributed to the company's net revenue for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2014 in the aggregate accounted for approximately 98.3% of the company's net revenue. if we fail to continue to develop and sell new commercially successful "hit" titles or sequels to such "hit" titles or experience any delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our "hit" titles or their sequels, our revenue and profits may decrease substantially and we may incur losses. in addition, competition in our industry is intense and a relatively small number of hit titles account for a large portion of total revenue in our industry. hit products offered by our competitors may take a larger share of consumer spending than we anticipate, which could cause revenue generated from our products to fall below our expectations. if our competitors develop more successful products or services at lower price points or based on payment models perceived as offering better value, or if we do not continue to develop consistently high quality and well-received products and services, our revenue and profitability may decline. in addition, both the online and mobile games marketplaces are characterized by frequent product introductions, relatively low barriers to entry, and new and evolving business methods, technologies and platforms for development. widespread consumer adoption of these new platforms for games and other technological advances in online or mobile game offerings could negatively affect our sales of console and traditional pc products before we have an opportunity to develop profitable businesses in such markets. we are subject to product development risks which could result in delays and additional costs, and we must adapt to changes in software technologies. we depend on our internal development studios and third-party software developers to develop new interactive entertainment software within anticipated release schedules and cost projections. the development cycle for new titles generally ranges from 12 to more than 24 months, and our top-selling titles could take more than 3 years to develop. therefore our development costs can be substantial. if we or our third party developers experience unanticipated development delays, financial difficulties or additional costs, we may not be able to release titles according to our schedule and at budgeted costs. there can be no assurance that our products will be sufficiently successful so that we can recoup these costs or make a profit on these products. additionally, in order to stay competitive, our internal development studios must anticipate and adapt to rapid technological changes affecting software development. any inability to respond to technological advances and implement new technologies could render our products obsolete or less marketable. 10 table of contents the inability of our products to achieve significant market acceptance, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our products may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. new products may not achieve significant market acceptance, generate sufficient sales or be introduced in a timely manner to permit us to recover development, manufacturing and marketing costs associated with these products. the life cycle of a title generally involves a relatively high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. because revenue associated with an initial product launch generally constitutes a high percentage of the total revenue associated with the life of a product, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of one or more new products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results and cause our operating results to be materially different from our expectations. our business is subject to our ability to develop commercially successful products for the current generation video game platforms and our ability to transition our business model and strategy to the next generation platforms. we derive most of our revenue from the sale of products made for video game platforms manufactured by third-parties, such as sony's ps3 and ps4, microsoft's xbox 360 and xbox one, and nintendo's wii, which comprised approximately 91.4% of the company's net revenue by product platform for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2014. the success of our business is subject to the continued popularity of these platforms and our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. video game hardware platforms have historically had a life cycle of four to six years and are experiencing a transition to new console platforms. during any such transitional period, our success will depend on our ability to develop our products and services for these next-generation consoles. this transition may require significant costs and management resources. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully transition our business model and strategy to these new platforms. further, the hardware manufacturers are not required to enter into agreements with us with respect to new consoles and these manufacturers may choose to impose more restrictive terms or adopt very different business models and fee structures. in addition, the demand for next-generation consoles may not grow as rapidly as the decline of the previous generation consoles. as a result, the transition to new platforms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. connectivity issues related to digital delivery platforms could affect our ability to sell and provide online services for our products and could affect our profitability. we rely upon third-party digital delivery platforms, such as steam, microsoft's xbox live and sony entertainment network, to provide connectivity from the consumer to our digital products and our online services. connectivity issues could prevent customers from accessing this content and our ability to successfully market and sell our products could be adversely affected. in addition, we could experience similar issues related to services we host on our internal servers. such issues also could affect our ability to provide online services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. our business could be adversely affected if our consumer data protection measures are not seen as adequate or there are breaches of our security measures or unintended disclosures of our consumer data. we are collecting and storing consumer information, including personal information and credit card information. we take measures to protect our consumer data from unauthorized access or disclosure. it is possible that our security controls over consumer data may not prevent the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information. in addition, due to the high profile nature of our products, we may draw a disproportionately higher amount of attention and attempts to breach our security controls than companies with lower profile products. a security breach that leads to disclosure of consumer account 11 table of contents information (including personally identifiable information) could harm our reputation, compel us to comply with disparate breach notification laws in various jurisdictions and otherwise subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. a resulting perception that our products or services do not adequately protect the privacy of personal information could result in a loss of current or potential consumers and business partners. in addition, if any of our business partners experience a security breach that leads to disclosure of consumer account information, our reputation could be harmed, resulting in loss of revenue. the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the u.s., europe and elsewhere are often uncertain, contradictory and in flux. it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. if so, this could result in government imposed fines or orders requiring that we change our data practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business. complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, certain of our products are online-enabled. the ability of our products to offer online functionality, and our ability to offer content through a video game platform's digital distribution channel, is dependent upon the continued operation and security of such platform's online network. these third- party networks, as well as our own internal systems and websites, and the security measures related thereto may be breached as a result of third-party action, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and result in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our customers' data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information, or our information technology systems. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. if an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, we may lose business, suffer irreparable damage to our reputation, and/or incur significant costs and expenses relating to the investigation and possible litigation of claims relating to such event. security breaches involving the source code for our products could adversely affect our business. we securely store the source code for our interactive entertainment software products as it is created. a breach, whether physical, electronic or otherwise, of the systems on which such source code and other sensitive data are stored could lead to damage or piracy of our software. if we are subject to data security breaches, we may have a loss in sales or increased costs arising from the restoration or implementation of additional security measures which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. any theft and/or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an event could adversely affect our competitive position, reputation, brand, and future sales of our products. our business could be subject to significant disruption, and we could suffer monetary and other losses and reputational harm, in the event of such incidents and claims. our efforts to expand into new products and services may subject us to additional risks. in recent years, we have invested in emerging opportunities in interactive entertainment played on mobile platforms, including tablets and smartphones, and online platforms, including social networks. we have also grown our product offerings that are available through digital download. we are actively investing to capitalize on these trends in order to diversify our product mix, reduce our operating risks, and increase our revenue. there are risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. there is no assurance that we will be able to attract a sufficiently large number of customers or recover costs incurred for developing and marketing these new products or services. external factors, such as competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also 12 table of contents impact the successful implementation of any new products or services. failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we depend on our key management and product development personnel. our continued success will depend to a significant extent on our senior management team and our relationship with zelnickmedia corporation ("zelnickmedia"). our executive chairman and chief executive officer and president are partners of zelnickmedia. we are also highly dependent on the expertise, skills and knowledge of certain of our rockstar employees and other key creative personnel responsible for content creation and development of our grand theft auto titles and titles based on other brands. we may not be able to continue to retain these personnel at current compensation levels, or at all. the loss of the services of our executive officers, zelnickmedia, our key rockstar employees or other key creative personnel could significantly harm our business. in addition, if one or more key employees were to join a competitor or form a competing company, we may lose additional personnel, experience material interruptions in product development, delays in bringing products to market and difficulties in our relationships with licensors, suppliers and customers, which would significantly harm our business. failure to continue to attract and retain other qualified management and creative personnel could adversely affect our business and prospects. declines in consumer spending and other adverse changes in the economy could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. most of our products involve discretionary spending on the part of consumers. we believe that consumer spending is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. this makes our products particularly sensitive to general economic conditions and economic cycles as consumers are generally more willing to make discretionary purchases, including purchases of products like ours, during periods in which favorable economic conditions prevail. adverse economic conditions such as a prolonged u.s. or international general economic downturn, including periods of increased inflation, unemployment levels, tax rates, interest rates, energy prices or declining consumer confidence could also reduce consumer spending. reduced consumer spending has and may continue to result in reduced demand for our products and may also require increased selling and promotional expenses, which has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, during periods of relative economic weakness, our consolidated credit risk, reflecting our counterparty dealings with distributors, customers, capital providers and others may increase, perhaps materially so. furthermore, uncertainty and adverse changes in the economy could also increase the risk of material losses on our investments, increase costs associated with developing and publishing our products, increase the cost and availability of sources of financing, and increase our exposure to material losses from bad debts, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. if economic conditions worsen, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and in various other jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes, and in the ordinary course of business there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are required to estimate future taxes. although we currently believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the estimate process is inherently uncertain, and such estimates are not binding on tax authorities. further, our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including changes in the business, including the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax elections, and 13 table of contents changes in applicable tax laws. additionally, tax determinations are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities and developments in those audits could adversely affect our income tax provision. should the ultimate tax liability exceed estimates, our income tax provision and net income or loss could be adversely affected. historically, we recorded a valuation allowance against most of our u.s. deferred tax assets. we expect to provide a valuation allowance on future u.s. tax benefits until we can sustain a level of profitability or until other significant positive evidence arises that suggest that these benefits are more likely than not to be realized. further, our tax determinations are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities and developments in those audits could adversely affect our income tax provision. should our ultimate tax liability exceed our estimates, our income tax provision and net income or loss could be materially affected. we earn a significant amount of our operating income, and hold a significant portion of our cash, outside the u.s. any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions may result in higher effective tax rates for the company. in addition, there have been proposals to change u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form this proposed legislation will pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse impact on our income tax provision and financial condition. we are also required to pay taxes other than income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions. we are regularly under examination by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations, changes in our business or changes in applicable tax rules will not have an adverse effect on our net income or loss and financial condition. our quarterly operating results are dependent on the release of "hit" titles and are highly seasonal which may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate significantly. we have experienced and may continue to experience wide fluctuations in quarterly operating results. the release of a "hit" title typically leads to a high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. in addition, the interactive entertainment industry is highly seasonal, with sales typically higher during the fourth calendar quarter, due primarily to increased demand for games during the holiday season. demand for and sales of our sports titles are also seasonal in that they are typically released just prior to the start of the sport season which they depict. if a key event or sports season to which our product release schedule is tied were to be delayed or cancelled, our sales would also suffer disproportionately. our failure or inability to produce "hit" titles or introduce products on a timely basis to meet seasonal fluctuations in demand could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. the uncertainties associated with software development, manufacturing lead times, production delays and the approval process for products by hardware manufacturers and other licensors make it difficult to predict the quarter in which our products will ship and therefore may cause us to fail to meet financial expectations. returns of our published titles by our customers and price concessions granted to our customers may adversely affect our operating results. we are exposed to the risk of product returns and price concessions with respect to our customers. our distribution arrangements with customers generally do not give them the right to return titles to us or to cancel firm orders. however, we sometimes accept product returns from our distribution customers for stock balancing and negotiate accommodations for customers, which include credits and returns, when demand for specific products falls below expectations. we accept returns and grant price concessions in connection with our publishing arrangements and revenue is recognized after deducting estimated reserves for returns and price concessions. while we believe that we can reliably estimate future returns and price concessions, if return rates and price concessions for our products exceed our reserves, our revenue could 14 table of contents decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. increased sales of used video game products could lower our sales. certain of our larger customers sell used video games, which are generally priced lower than new video games. if our customers increase their sales of used video games, it could negatively affect our sales of new video games and have an adverse influence on our business, financial condition and operating results. a limited number of customers account for a significant portion of our sales. the loss of a principal customer or other significant business relationship could seriously hurt our business. a substantial portion of our product sales are made to a limited number of customers. sales to our five largest customers during the fiscal year ended march 31, 2014 accounted for approximately 39.4% of our net revenue, with gamestop accounting for 18.4%. our sales are made primarily pursuant to purchase orders without long-term agreements or other commitments, and our customers may terminate their relationship with us at any time. certain of our customers may decline to carry products containing mature content. the loss of our relationships with principal customers or a decline in sales to principal customers, including as a result of a product being rated "ao" (age 18 and over) could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. furthermore, our customers may also be placed into bankruptcy, become insolvent or be liquidated due to economic downturns, global contractions of credit or for other factors. bankruptcies or consolidations of certain large retail customers could seriously hurt our business, including as a result of uncollectible accounts receivable from such customers and the concentration of purchasing power among remaining large retailers. in addition, our results of operations may be adversely affected if certain of our customers who purchase on credit terms are no longer eligible to purchase on such terms due to their financial distress, which may reduce the quantity of products they demand from us. if our marketing and advertising efforts fail to resonate with our customers, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. our products are marketed worldwide through a diverse spectrum of advertising and promotional programs such as television and online advertising, print advertising, retail merchandising, website development and event sponsorship. our ability to sell our products and services is dependent in part on the success of these programs. if the marketing for our products and services fails to resonate with our customers, particularly during the holiday season or other key selling periods, or if advertising rates or other media placement costs increase, these factors could have a material adverse influence on our business, financial condition and operating results. the interactive entertainment software industry is highly competitive. we compete for both licenses to properties and the sale of interactive entertainment software with sony, microsoft and nintendo, each of which is a large developer and marketer of software for its own platforms. we also compete with domestic game publishers, such as activision blizzard and electronic arts and international publishers, such as capcom, sega, square enix and ubisoft. as our business is dependent upon our ability to develop hit titles, which require increasing budgets for development and marketing, the availability of significant financial resources has become a major competitive factor in developing and marketing software games. some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, personnel and other resources than we do and are able to finance larger budgets for development and marketing and make higher offers to licensors and developers for commercially desirable properties. our titles also compete with other forms of entertainment, such as social media and casual games, in addition to motion pictures, 15 table of contents television and audio and video products featuring similar themes, online computer programs and other entertainment, which may be less expensive or provide other advantages to consumers. a number of software publishers who compete with us have developed and commercialized or are currently developing online games for use by consumers over the internet. if technological advances significantly increase the availability of online games and if consumer acceptance of online gaming grows substantially, it could result in a decline in our platform-based software sales and negatively affect sales of such products. increased competition for limited shelf space and promotional support from retailers could affect the success of our business and require us to incur greater expenses to market our titles. retailers have limited shelf space and promotional resources and competition is intense among newly introduced interactive entertainment software titles for adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support. competition for retail shelf space is expected to continue to increase, which may require us to increase our marketing expenditures to maintain desirable sales levels of our titles. competitors with more extensive lines and more popular titles may have greater bargaining power with retailers. accordingly, we may not be able, or we may have to pay more than our competitors, to achieve similar levels of promotional support and shelf space. our business is partly dependent on our ability to enter into successful software development arrangements with third-parties. our success depends on our ability to continually identify and develop new titles on a timely basis. we rely on third-party software developers for the development of some of our titles. quality third-party developers are continually in high demand. software developers who have developed titles for us in the past may not be available to develop software for us in the future. due to the limited number of third-party software developers and the limited control that we exercise over them, these developers may not be able to complete titles for us on a timely basis or within acceptable quality standards, if at all. we have entered into agreements with third-parties to acquire the rights to publish and distribute interactive entertainment software as well as to use licensed intellectual properties in our titles. these agreements typically require us to make development payments, pay royalties and satisfy other conditions. our development payments may not be sufficient to permit developers to develop new software successfully, which could result in material delays and significantly increase our costs to bring particular products to market. software development costs, promotion and marketing expenses and royalties payable to software developers and third-party licensors have increased significantly in recent years and reduce potential profits derived from sales of our software. future sales of our titles may not be sufficient to recover development payments and advances to software developers and licensors, and we may not have adequate financial and other resources to satisfy our contractual commitments to such developers. if we fail to satisfy our obligations under agreements with third- party developers and licensors, the agreements may be terminated or modified in ways that are burdensome to us, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we cannot publish our titles without the approval of hardware licensors that are also our competitors. we are required to obtain licenses from sony, microsoft and nintendo, which are also our competitors, to develop and publish titles for their respective hardware platforms. our existing platform licenses require that we obtain approval for the publication of new titles on a title-by-title basis. as a result, the number of titles we are able to publish for these hardware platforms, our ability to manage the timing of the release of these titles and, accordingly, our net revenue from titles for these hardware platforms, may be limited. if a licensor chooses not to renew or extend our license agreement at the end of its current term, or if a licensor were to terminate our license for any reason or does not approve one or more of our titles, we may be unable to publish that title as well as additional titles for that licensor's platform. termination of any 16 table of contents such agreements or disapproval of titles could seriously hurt our business and prospects. we may be unable to continue to enter into license agreements for certain current generation platforms on satisfactory terms or at all. failure to enter into any such agreement could also seriously hurt our business. we rely on a limited number of channel partners who influence the fee structures for online distribution of our games on their platforms. we rely on a limited number of channel partners, including sony (play station), microsoft (xbox), apple, android and steam. certain platform licensors have retained the right to change the fee structures for online distribution of both paid content and free content (including patches and corrections) on their platforms. each channel partner's ability to set or influence royalty rates may increase costs, which could negatively affect our operating margins. we may be unable to distribute our content in a cost-effective or profitable manner through this distribution channel, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. outside of fee arrangements, our agreements with our channel partners typically give them significant control over other aspects of the distribution of our products and services that we develop for their platform. if our channel partners establish terms that restrict our offerings through their channels, or significantly impact the financial terms on which these products or services are offered to our customers, we may be unable to distribute our product offerings or be forced to do so on a materially worse financial or business terms. we may not be able to adequately adjust our cost structure in a timely fashion in response to a sudden decrease in demand. in the event of a significant decline in revenue, we may not be able to dispose of facilities, reduce personnel or make other changes to our cost structure without disruption to our operations or without significant termination and exit costs. management may not be able to implement such actions in a timely manner, if at all, to offset an immediate shortfall in revenue and profit. moreover, reducing costs may impair our ability to produce and develop software titles at sufficient levels in the future. the potential increasing importance of digital sales to our business exposes us to the risks of that business model, including greater competition. the proportion of our revenues derived from digital content delivery, as compared to traditional retail sales, may continue to increase. the increased importance of digital content delivery in our industry increases our potential competition, as the minimum capital needed to produce and publish a digitally delivered game is significantly less than that needed to produce and publish one that is purchased through retail distribution and is played on a game console. this will also require us to dedicate capital to developing and implementing alternative marketing strategies, which we may not do successfully. if either occurs, we may be unable to effectively market and distribute our products, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, a continuing shift to digital delivery could result in a deprioritization of our products by traditional retailers. we depend on servers and internet bandwidth to operate our games and digital services with online features. if we were to lose server capacity or lack sufficient internet bandwidth for any reason, our business could suffer. we rely on data servers, including those owned or controlled by third parties, to enable our customers to download our games and other downloadable content, and to operate our online games and other products with online functionality. events such as limited hardware failure, any broad-based catastrophic server malfunction, a significant intrusion by hackers that circumvents security measures, or a failure of disaster recovery services would likely interrupt the functionality of our games with online services and could result 17 table of contents in a loss of sales for games and related services. an extended interruption of service could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. we expect a significant portion of our games to be on-line enabled in the future, and therefore we must project our future server needs and make advance purchases of servers or server capacity to accommodate expected business demands. if we underestimate the amount of server capacity our business requires or if our business were to grow more quickly than expected, our consumers may experience service problems, such as slow or interrupted gaming access. insufficient server capacity may result in decreased sales, a loss of our consumer base and adverse consequences to our reputation. conversely, if we overestimate the amount of server capacity required by our business, we may incur additional operating costs. because of the potential importance of our online business to our revenues and results of operations, our ability to access adequate internet bandwidth and online computational resources to support our business is critical. if the price of either such resource increases, we may not be able to increase our prices or subscriber levels to compensate for such costs, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. we submit our products for rating by the entertainment software rating board ("esrb") in the united states and other voluntary or government ratings organizations in foreign countries. failure to obtain a target rating for certain of our products could negatively affect our ability to distribute and sell those games, as could the re-rating of a game for any reason. we voluntarily submit our game products to the esrb, a u.s.-based non-profit and independent ratings organization. the esrb system provides consumers with information about game content using a rating symbol that generally suggests the appropriate player age group and specific content descriptors, such as graphic violence, profanity or sexually explicit material. the esrb may impose significant penalties on game publishers for violations of its rules related to rating or marketing games, including revocation of a rating or monetary fines up to $1 million. other countries require voluntary or government backed ratings as prerequisites for product sales. in some instances, we may have to modify our products in order to market them under the target rating, which could delay or disrupt the release of our products. in addition, some of our titles may not be sold at all or without extensive edits in certain countries, such as germany. in the united states, if the esrb rates a game as "ao" (age 18 and older), platform licensors may not certify the game and retailers may refuse to sell it. in addition, some consumers have reacted to re-ratings or controversial game content by refusing to purchase such games, demanding refunds for games that they had already purchased, and refraining from buying other games published by us. many of our rockstar titles and certain of our 2k titles have been rated "m" (age 17 and older) by the esrb. if we are unable to obtain "m" ratings and instead receive "ao" ratings on future versions of those or similar titles as a result of changes in the esrb's ratings standards or for other reasons, including the adoption of legislation in this area, our business and prospects could be negatively affected. if any of our games are re-rated by the esrb or other foreign based ratings organizations, we could be exposed to litigation, administrative fines and penalties and other potential liabilities, and our operating results and financial condition could be significantly affected. we have implemented processes to comply with the requirements of the esrb and other ratings organizations and properly display the designated rating symbols and content descriptions. nonetheless, these processes are subject to human error, circumvention, overriding and reasonable resource constraints. if a video game we published were found to contain undisclosed pertinent content, the esrb could re-rate a game, retailers could refuse to sell it and demand that we accept the return of any unsold copies or returns from customers, and consumers could refuse to buy it or demand that we refund their money. this could have a material negative affect on our operating results and financial condition. in addition, we may be exposed to litigation, administrative fines and penalties and our reputation could be harmed, which could affect sales of other video games we sell. if any of these consequences were to occur, our business and financial performance could be significantly harmed. 18 table of contents content policies adopted by retailers, consumer opposition and litigation could negatively affect sales of our products. retailers may decline to sell interactive entertainment software containing what they judge to be graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other content that they deem inappropriate for their businesses. if retailers decline to sell our products based upon their opinion that they contain objectionable themes, graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other generally objectionable content, or if any of our previously "m" rated series products are rated "ao," we might be required to significantly change or discontinue particular titles or series, which in the case of our best-selling grand theft auto titles could seriously affect our business. consumer advocacy groups have opposed sales of interactive entertainment software containing objectionable themes, violence or sexual material or other objectionable content by pressing for legislation in these areas and by engaging in public demonstrations and media campaigns. additionally, although lawsuits seeking damages for injuries allegedly suffered by third-parties as a result of video games have generally been unsuccessful in the courts, claims of this kind have been asserted against us from time to time and may be asserted and be successful in the future. we are subject to risks and uncertainties of international trade, including fluctuations in the values of local foreign currencies against the dollar. sales in international markets, primarily in europe, have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenue. for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2014, approximately 53.5% of our net revenue was earned outside the united states. we have also expanded our asian operations in an effort to increase our geographical scope and diversify our revenue base. we are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased credit risks, tariffs and duties, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, shipping delays, and international political, regulatory and economic developments, all of which can have a significant influence on our operating results. many of our international sales are made in local currencies, which could fluctuate against the dollar. while we may use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our operating results could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. we face risks from our international operations. we are subject to certain risks because of our international operations, particularly as we continue to grow our business and presence in asia, latin america and other parts of the world. changes to and compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations may increase our cost of doing business and our inability or failure to obtain required approvals could harm our international and domestic sales. trade legislation in either the united states or other countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, import/export compliance laws or other trade laws or policies, could adversely affect our ability to sell or to distribute in international markets. we incur additional legal compliance costs associated with our international operations and could become subject to legal penalties in foreign countries if we do not comply with local laws and regulations which may be substantially different from those in the united states. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by united states laws and regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, and by local laws, such as laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials. although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, including those based in or from countries where practices which violate such laws may be customary, will not take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 19 table of contents if we are unable to protect the intellectual property relating to our software, the commercial value of our products will be adversely affected and our competitive position could be harmed. we develop proprietary software and have obtained the rights to publish and distribute software developed by third-parties. we attempt to protect our software and production techniques under copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as well as through contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and distribution. our software is susceptible to piracy and unauthorized copying. unauthorized third-parties may be able to copy or to reverse engineer our software to obtain and use programming or production techniques that we regard as proprietary. well organized piracy operations have also proliferated in recent years, resulting in the ability to download pirated copies of our software over the internet. although we attempt to incorporate protective measures into our software, piracy of our products could negatively affect our future profitability. if we infringe on or are alleged to infringe on the intellectual property rights of third-parties, our business could be adversely affected. as our industry grows, we may be subject to an increasing amount of litigation that is common in the software industry based on allegations of infringement or other alleged violations of patent, copyright and/or trademarks. in addition, we believe that interactive entertainment software will increasingly become the subject of claims that such software infringes on the intellectual property rights of others with both the growth of online functionality and advances in technology, game content and software graphics as games become more realistic. from time to time, we receive notices from third-parties or are named in lawsuits by third-parties alleging infringement of their proprietary rights. although we believe that our software and technologies and the software and technologies of third-party developers and publishers with whom we have contractual relations do not and will not infringe or violate proprietary rights of others, it is possible that infringement of proprietary rights of others may occur. any claims of infringement, with or without merit, could be time consuming, costly and difficult to defend. moreover, intellectual property litigation or claims could require us to discontinue the distribution of products, obtain a license or redesign our products, which could result in additional substantial costs and material delays. our software is susceptible to errors, which can harm our financial results and reputation. the technological advancements of new hardware platforms result in the development of more complex software products. as software products become more complex, the risk of undetected errors in new products increases. we may need to produce and distribute patches in order to repair such errors, which could be costly and may distract our developers from working on new products. if, despite testing, errors are found in new products or releases after shipments have been made, we could experience a loss of or delay in timely market acceptance, product returns, loss of revenue, increases in costs relating to the repair of such errors and damage to our reputation. if we acquire or invest in other businesses, intellectual properties or other assets, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired and/or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for such transactions. if appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may acquire or make investments in businesses, intellectual properties and other assets that we believe are strategic. we may not be able to identify, negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment successfully. even if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a business, intellectual property or other asset, such acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including: retaining key employees and maintaining the key business and customer relationships of the businesses we acquire; 20 table of contents cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from an acquired company or business into our organization; the possibility that the combined company would not achieve the expected benefits, including any anticipated operating and product synergies, of the acquisition as quickly as anticipated or that the costs of, or operational difficulties arising from, an acquisition would be greater than anticipated; significant acquisition-related accounting adjustments, particularly relating to an acquired company's deferred revenue, that may cause reported revenue and profits of the combined company to be lower than the sum of their stand-alone revenue and profits; significant accounting charges resulting from the completion and integration of a sizeable acquisition and increased capital expenditures, including potential impairment charges incurred to write down the carrying amount of intangible assets generated as a result of an acquisition; the possibility that we will not discover important facts during due diligence that could have a material adverse effect on the value of the businesses we acquire, including the possibility that a change of control of a company we acquire triggers a termination of contractual or intellectual property rights important to the operation of its business; the need to integrate an acquired company's accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management and timely reporting, and the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company in an acquired company that, prior to the acquisition, lacked these controls, procedures and policies; litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risks as a result of, an acquisition, including claims from terminated employees, customers or other third-parties; and to the extent that we engage in strategic transactions outside of the united states, we face additional risks, including risks related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. future acquisitions and investments could also involve the issuance of our equity and equity-linked securities (potentially diluting our existing stockholders), the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, write-offs of goodwill, intangibles, or acquired in-process technology, or other increased cash and non-cash expenses such as stock- based compensation. any of the foregoing factors could harm our financial condition or prevent us from achieving improvements in our financial condition and operating performance that could have otherwise been achieved by us on a stand-alone basis. our stockholders may not have the opportunity to review, vote on or evaluate future acquisitions or investments. our ability to acquire and maintain licenses to intellectual property, especially for sports titles, affects our revenue and profitability. competition for these licenses may make them more expensive and increase our costs. certain of our products are based on or incorporate intellectual property owned by others. for example, certain of our 2k products include rights licensed from major sports leagues and players' associations. similarly, some of our other titles are based on licenses of popular entertainment products. competition for these licenses is intense. if we are unable to maintain these licenses or obtain additional licenses on reasonable economic terms or with significant commercial value, our revenue and profitability could decline significantly. competition for these licenses may also increase the advances, guarantees and royalties that we must pay to the licensor, which could significantly increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability. in addition, on certain intellectual property licenses, we are subject to guaranteed minimum payments, royalties or standards of performance and may not be able to terminate these 21 table of contents agreements prior to their stated expiration. if such licensed products do not generate revenues in excess of such minimum guarantees, our profitability will be adversely affected. we are subject to contractual covenants which place certain limitations on how we manage our business . our credit agreement (as defined herein) and the indentures governing our convertible notes (as defined herein) may limit our ability to take various actions, including incurring additional debt, paying dividends, repurchasing shares and acquiring or disposing of assets or businesses. in addition, we have granted a security interest in connection with certain compensatory arrangements which limits our ability to incur senior debt in excess of certain amounts. accordingly, we may be restricted from taking actions that management believes would be desirable and in the best interests of us and our stockholders. our credit agreement and the indentures also require us to satisfy specified financial and non-financial covenants. a breach of any of the covenants contained in our credit agreement could result in an event of default under the agreement and under the indentures governing our convertible notes and would allow our lenders and noteholders to pursue various remedies, including accelerating the repayment of any outstanding indebtedness. our business and products are subject to potential legislation. the adoption of such proposed legislation could limit the retail market for our products. several proposals have been made for federal legislation to regulate our industry. such proposals seek to prohibit the sale of products containing certain content included in some of our games. if any such proposals are enacted into law, it may limit the potential market for some of our games in the united states, and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. other countries, such as germany, have adopted laws regulating content both in packaged games and those transmitted over the internet that are stricter than current united states laws. in the united states, proposals have also been made by numerous state legislators to regulate and prohibit the sale of interactive entertainment software products containing certain types of violent or sexual content to under 17 or 18 audiences, such as the state of california's "ultraviolent video games law" that sought to ban the sale or rental of violent video games to minors. while such legislation to date has been enjoined by industry and retail groups or been found unconstitutional, the adoption into law of such legislation in federal and/or in state jurisdictions in which we do significant business could severely limit the retail market for some of our games. we may need additional capital if we incur losses. if we incur losses in the future, we may be required to raise additional capital in order to fund our operations. we could seek to raise capital in a number of ways, including through the issuance of debt or equity, or through other financing arrangements. in october 2011, we entered into a second amended and restated credit agreement (the "credit agreement") which amended and restated our july 2007 credit agreement (as defined herein), which requires us to make periodic interest or other debt service payments. in addition, we issued 1.75% convertible notes due 2016 in november 2011 and 1.00% convertible notes due 2018 in june 2013 (the "1.75% convertible notes" and together with the 1.00% convertible notes, the "convertible notes"), which require us to make periodic interest payments to the holders of the convertible notes. if we borrow additional funds, further debt service payments would probably be necessary. in addition, the terms of additional debt may impose significant restrictions on our ability to operate our business. if we seek financing through the sale of equity or equity-based securities (such as our convertible notes), our current stockholders will suffer dilution in their percentage ownership of common stock. we cannot be certain as to our ability to raise additional capital in the future or under what terms capital would be available. if we need to raise capital and are not successful in doing so, we will have to consider other options that may include, but are not limited to, a reduction in our expenditures for internal and external new product development, reductions in overhead expenses, and sales of intellectual 22 table of contents property and other assets. these actions, should they become necessary, will likely result in a reduction in the size of our operations and could materially affect the prospects of our business. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill becomes impaired. we are required under u.s. generally accepted accounting principles to review our goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating a requirement to reevaluate whether our goodwill continues to be recoverable, include a significant decline in stock price and market capitalization, slower growth rates in our industry or other materially adverse events. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill is determined. this may adversely affect our operating results. our reported financial results could be adversely affected by the application of existing or future accounting standards to our business as it evolves. our reported financial results are affected by the accounting policies promulgated by the sec and national accounting standards bodies and the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies. for example, standards regarding software revenue recognition have and could further significantly affect the way we account for revenue related to our products and services. as we enhance, expand and diversify our business and product offerings, the application of existing or future financial accounting standards, particularly those relating to the way we account for revenue, could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results although not necessarily on our cash flows. risks relating to our common stock for purposes of this section "risks relating to our common stock," references to "the company," "we," "our," and "us" refer only to take-two interactive software, inc. and not to its subsidiaries. additional issuances of equity securities by us would dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders. we may issue equity or equity-based securities (such as our convertible notes) in the future in connection with acquisitions or strategic transactions, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, including through repayment of outstanding debt, to fund expansion of our operations or for other purposes. to the extent we issue additional equity securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders would be reduced. there is no guarantee that we will do additional share repurchases in the future. the share repurchase program authorized by the board of directors, which authorized the repurchase of up to 7,500,000 shares of our common stock and had 3,283,000 shares available for repurchase as of march 31, 2014, does not obligate the company to make any purchases at any specific time or situation. discontinuing repurchases could adversely affect the price of the company's common stock. the program may be suspended or discontinued at any time for any reason. future sales or other issuances of our common stock could adversely affect its market price. the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect its price. the sale or the availability for sale of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause the price of our common stock to decline. the issuance of shares of our common stock upon conversion of our convertible notes could also adversely affect the price of our common stock. 23 table of contents our stock price has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate significantly. the market price of our common stock historically has been, and we expect will continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations. these fluctuations may be due to factors specific to us including those discussed in the risk factors in this section as well as others not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material, to changes in securities analysts' earnings estimates or ratings, to our results or future financial guidance falling below our expectations and analysts' and investors' expectations, to factors affecting the computer, software, entertainment, media or electronics industries, or to national or international economic conditions. stock markets, in general, have experienced over the years, and continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected market prices for companies such as ours and that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. delaware law, our charter documents and provisions of our debt agreements may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline. we are a delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third-party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. our board of directors has the power, without stockholder approval, to adopt a stockholder rights plan and/or to designate the terms of one or more series of preferred stock and issue shares of preferred stock. in addition, we may under certain circumstances involving a change of control, be obligated to repurchase all or a portion of our convertible notes and any potential acquirer would be required to assume our obligations related to any outstanding convertible notes. we or any possible acquirer may not have available financial resources necessary to repurchase those notes. the ability of our board of directors to create and issue a new series of preferred stock and certain provisions of delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the indenture governing our notes could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market price of our common stock and the value of any outstanding notes. our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to reduce future years' taxes could be substantially limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in the internal revenue code. section 382 of the internal revenue code contains rules that limit the ability of a company to use its net operating loss carryforwards in years after an ownership change, which is generally defined as any change in ownership of more than 50% of its stock over a three-year testing period. these rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes among stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of the stock of a company and/or any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by the company. if, as a result of future transactions involving our common stock, including purchases or sales of stock by 5% stockholders, we undergo cumulative ownership changes which exceed 50% over the testing period, our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards would be subject to additional limitations under section 382. generally, if an ownership change occurs, the annual taxable income limitation on the use of net operating loss carryforwards is equal to the product of the applicable long-term tax exempt rate and the value of the company's stock immediately before the ownership change. depending on the resulting limitation, a portion of our net operating loss carryforwards could expire before we would be able to use them. our inability to fully utilize our net operating losses to offset taxable income generated in the future could have a material and negative affect on our future financial position and results of operations. 24 table of contents we are implementing a new enterprise resource planning (erp) system, and we may encounter technical or operational difficulties during the transition that could disrupt our operations. we are implementing a new enterprise resource planning (erp) system, and we may encounter technical and operating difficulties during the transition to that new system. we may experience problems in implementing the new system as our employees learn the new system, transfer data from our existing system to the new system and operate with the new system. the transition may not be completed promptly or at all, or could require us to revert to the currently existing system. any difficulties that we encounter in implementing the new system may disrupt our ability to deal effectively with our employees, vendors, customers and other companies with which we have commercial relationships and also may prevent us from effectively closing a quarterly period and reporting our financial results in a timely manner. if we are unable to produce accurate and timely financial statements, our stock price may be adversely affected and we may be unable to maintain compliance with the listing requirements of the nasdaq global market. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential loss arising from fluctuations in market rates and prices. our market risk exposures primarily include fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rate risk historically, fluctuations in interest rates have not had a significant effect on our operating results. under our credit agreement, outstanding balances bear interest at our election of (a) 1.50% to 2.00% above a certain base rate (4.75% at march 31, 2014), or (b) 2.50% to 3.00% above the libor rate (approximately 2.65% at march 31, 2014), with the margin rate subject to the achievement of certain average liquidity levels. changes in market rates may affect our future interest expense if there is an outstanding balance on our line of credit. the 1.75% convertible notes and the 1.00% convertible notes pay interest semi-annually at a fixed rate of 1.75% and 1.00%, respectively, per annum and we expect that there will be no fluctuation related to the convertible notes affecting our cash component of interest expense. for additional details on our convertible notes see note 10 to our consolidated financial statements. foreign currency exchange rate risk we transact business in foreign currencies and are exposed to risks resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. accounts relating to foreign operations are translated into united states dollars using prevailing exchange rates at the relevant period end. translation adjustments are included as a separate component of stockholders' equity. for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2014 and 2013, our foreign currency translation adjustment was approximately $6.4 million gain and $11.6 million loss, respectively. we recognized a foreign currency exchange transaction gain of $0.2 million for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2014, and a foreign currency exchange transaction loss for the fiscal years ended march 31, 2013 and 2012 of $0.8 million and $1.3 million, respectively, in interest and other, net in our consolidated statements of operations. cash flow hedging activities we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with forecasted transactions involving non-functional currency denominated expenditures. these contracts, which are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, are accounted for as derivatives whereby the fair value of the contracts is reported as either assets or liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. the effective portion of gains or losses resulting from changes in the fair value of these hedges is initially reported, net of tax, as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders' equity. the gross amount of the effective portion of gains or losses resulting from changes in the fair value of these hedges is subsequently reclassified into cost of goods sold or research and development expenses, as appropriate, in the period when the forecasted transaction is recognized in our consolidated statements of operations. in the event that the gains or losses in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are deemed to be ineffective, the ineffective portion of gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value, if any, is reclassified to interest and other, net, in our consolidated statements of operations. in the event that the underlying forecasted transactions do not occur, or it becomes probable that they will not occur, within the defined hedge period, the gains or losses on the related cash flow hedges are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to interest and other, net, in our consolidated statements of operations. during the reporting periods, all forecasted transactions occurred, and therefore, there were no such gains or losses reclassified into interest and other, net. we do not enter into derivative financial contracts for speculative or trading purposes. at march 31, 2014 and 2013, we had $0.9 million and $7.9 million, respectively, of forward contracts outstanding to buy foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars all of which have maturities of less than one year. as of march 31, 2014 and 2013, the fair value of these outstanding forward contracts was immaterial and is included in prepaid expenses and other. 55 table of contents the fair value of these outstanding forward contracts is estimated based on the prevailing exchange rates of the various hedged currencies as of the end of the period. balance sheet hedging activities we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with non-functional currency denominated cash balances and inter-company funding loans, non-functional currency denominated accounts receivable and non-functional currency denominated accounts payable. these transactions are not designated as hedging instruments and are accounted for as derivatives whereby the fair value of the contracts is reported as either assets or liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, and gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair value are reported in interest and other, net, in our consolidated statements of operations. we do not enter into derivative financial contracts for speculative or trading purposes. at march 31, 2014, we had $68.5 million of forward contracts outstanding to sell foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars all of which have maturities of less than one year. at march 31, 2013, we had $55.4 million of forward contracts outstanding to sell foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars all of which have maturities of less than one year. for the fiscal years ended march 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, we recorded a loss of $18.4 million, gain of $2.2 million and gain of $0.7, respectively, related to foreign currency forward contracts in interest and other, net on the consolidated statements of operations. as of march 31, 2014 and 2013, the fair value of these outstanding forward contracts was immaterial and is included in prepaid expenses and other at march 31, 2014 and accrued expenses and other current liabilities at march 31, 2013. the fair value of these outstanding forward contracts is estimated based on the prevailing exchange rates of the various hedged currencies as of the end of the period. our hedging programs are designed to reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the effect of currency exchange rate movements. we believe the counterparties to these foreign currency forward contracts are creditworthy multinational commercial banks and that the risk of counterparty nonperformance is not material. notwithstanding our efforts to mitigate some foreign currency exchange rate risks, there can be no assurance that our hedging activities will adequately protect us against the risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations. for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2014, 53.5% of the company's revenue was generated outside the united states. using sensitivity analysis, a hypothetical 10% increase in the value of the u.s. dollar against all currencies would decrease revenues by 5.4%, while a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of the u.s. dollar against all currencies would increase revenues by 5.4%. in the opinion of management, a substantial portion of this fluctuation would be offset by cost of goods sold and operating expenses incurred in local currency.risk factors 9 risk factors our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. because of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other factors affecting our operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance and our business and financial performance could be harmed and the market value of our securities could decline. risks relating to our business we are dependent on the future success of our grand theft auto products and we must continue to publish "hit" titles or sequels to such "hit" titles in order to compete successfully in our industry. grand theft auto and certain of our other titles are "hit" products and have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our revenue. sales of grand theft auto products generated approximately 28.0% of the company's net revenue for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2015 and the ten best-selling franchises (including grand theft auto ) that significantly contributed to the company's net revenue for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2015 in the aggregate accounted for approximately 97.1% of the company's net revenue. if we fail to continue to develop and sell new commercially successful "hit" titles or sequels to such "hit" titles or experience any delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our "hit" titles or their sequels, our revenue and profits may decrease substantially and we may incur losses. in addition, competition in our industry is intense and a relatively small number of hit titles account for a large portion of total revenue in our industry. hit products offered by our competitors may take a larger share of consumer spending than we anticipate, which could cause revenue generated from our products to fall below our expectations. if our competitors develop more successful products or services at lower price points or based on payment models perceived as offering better value, or if we do not continue to develop consistently high quality and well-received products and services, our revenue and profitability may decline. in addition, both the online and mobile games marketplaces are characterized by frequent product introductions, relatively low barriers to entry, and new and evolving business methods, technologies and platforms for development. widespread consumer adoption of these new platforms for games and other technological advances in online or mobile game offerings could negatively affect our sales of console and traditional pc products before we have an opportunity to develop profitable businesses in such markets. we are subject to product development risks which could result in delays and additional costs, and we must adapt to changes in software technologies. we depend on our internal development studios and third-party software developers to develop new interactive entertainment software within anticipated release schedules and cost projections. the development cycle for new titles generally ranges from 12 to more than 24 months, and our top-selling titles could take more than 4 years to develop. therefore our development costs can be substantial. if we or our third party developers experience unanticipated development delays, financial difficulties or additional costs, we may not be able to release titles according to our schedule and at budgeted costs. there can be no assurance that our products will be sufficiently successful so that we can recoup these costs or make a profit on these products. additionally, in order to stay competitive, our internal development studios must anticipate and adapt to rapid technological changes affecting software development. any inability to respond to technological advances and implement new technologies could render our products obsolete or less marketable. 9 table of contents the inability of our products to achieve significant market acceptance, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our products may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. new products may not achieve significant market acceptance, generate sufficient sales or be introduced in a timely manner to permit us to recover development, manufacturing and marketing costs associated with these products. the life cycle of a title generally involves a relatively high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. because revenue associated with an initial product launch generally constitutes a high percentage of the total revenue associated with the life of a product, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of one or more new products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results and cause our operating results to be materially different from our expectations. our business is subject to our ability to develop commercially successful products for the current generation video game platforms. we derive most of our revenue from the sale of products made for video game platforms manufactured by third parties, such as sony's ps3 and ps4 and microsoft's xbox 360 and xbox one, which comprised approximately 81.4% of the company's net revenue by product platform for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2015. the success of our business is subject to the continued popularity of these platforms and our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. connectivity issues could affect our ability to sell and provide online services for our products and could affect our profitability. we rely upon third-party digital delivery platforms, such as steam, microsoft's xbox live and sony entertainment network, and other third-party service providers, to provide connectivity from the consumer to our digital products and our online services. connectivity issues could prevent customers from accessing this content and our ability to successfully market and sell our products could be adversely affected. in addition, we could experience similar issues related to services we host on our internal servers. such issues also could affect our ability to provide online services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. our business could be adversely affected if our consumer data protection measures are not seen as adequate or there are breaches of our security measures or unintended disclosures of our consumer data. we are collecting and storing consumer information, including personal information. we take measures to protect our consumer data from unauthorized access or disclosure. it is possible that our security controls over consumer data may not prevent the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information. in addition, due to the high profile nature of our products, we may draw a disproportionately higher amount of attention and attempts to breach our security controls than companies with lower profile products. a security breach that leads to disclosure of consumer account information (including personally identifiable information) could harm our reputation, compel us to comply with disparate breach notification laws in various jurisdictions and otherwise subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. a resulting perception that our products or services do not adequately protect the privacy of personal information could result in a loss of current or potential consumers and business partners. in addition, if any of our business partners experience a security breach that leads to disclosure of consumer account information, our reputation could be harmed, resulting in loss of revenue. the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the u.s., europe and elsewhere are often uncertain, contradictory and in flux. it is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. if so, this could result in government 10 table of contents imposed fines or orders requiring that we change our data practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business. complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, certain of our products are online enabled. the ability of our products to offer online functionality, and our ability to offer content through a video game platform's digital distribution channel, is dependent upon the continued operation and security of such platform's online network. these third party networks, as well as our own internal systems and websites, and the security measures related thereto may be breached as a result of third-party action, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and result in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our customers' data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information, or our information technology systems. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. if an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, we may lose business, suffer irreparable damage to our reputation, and/or incur significant costs and expenses relating to the investigation and possible litigation of claims relating to such event. security breaches involving the source code for our products could adversely affect our business. we securely store the source code for our interactive entertainment software products as it is created. a breach, whether physical, electronic or otherwise, of the systems on which such source code and other sensitive data are stored could lead to damage or piracy of our software. if we are subject to data security breaches, we may have a loss in sales or increased costs arising from the restoration or implementation of additional security measures which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. any theft and/or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an event could adversely affect our competitive position, reputation, brand, and future sales of our products. our business could be subject to significant disruption, and we could suffer monetary and other losses and reputational harm, in the event of such incidents and claims. our efforts to expand into new products and services may subject us to additional risks. in recent years, we have invested in emerging opportunities in interactive entertainment played on mobile platforms, including tablets and smartphones, and online platforms, including social networks. we have also grown our product offerings that are available through digital download. we are actively investing to capitalize on these trends in order to diversify our product mix, reduce our operating risks, and increase our revenue. there are risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. there is no assurance that we will be able to attract a sufficiently large number of customers or recover costs incurred for developing and marketing these new products or services. external factors, such as competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of any new products or services. failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we depend on our key management and product development personnel. our continued success will depend to a significant extent on our senior management team and our relationship with zelnickmedia corporation ("zelnickmedia"). our executive chairman/chief executive officer and president are partners of zelnickmedia. we are also highly dependent on the expertise, skills and knowledge of certain of our rockstar employees and other key creative personnel responsible for 11 table of contents content creation and development of our grand theft auto titles and titles based on other brands. we may not be able to continue to retain these personnel at current compensation levels, or at all. the loss of the services of our executive officers, zelnickmedia, our key rockstar employees or other key creative personnel could significantly harm our business. in addition, if one or more key employees were to join a competitor or form a competing company, we may lose additional personnel, experience material interruptions in product development, delays in bringing products to market and difficulties in our relationships with licensors, suppliers and customers, which would significantly harm our business. failure to continue to attract and retain other qualified management and creative personnel could adversely affect our business and prospects. declines in consumer spending and other adverse changes in the economy could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. most of our products involve discretionary spending on the part of consumers. we believe that consumer spending is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. this makes our products particularly sensitive to general economic conditions and economic cycles as consumers are generally more willing to make discretionary purchases, including purchases of products like ours, during periods in which favorable economic conditions prevail. adverse economic conditions such as a prolonged u.s. or international general economic downturn, including periods of increased inflation, unemployment levels, tax rates, interest rates, energy prices or declining consumer confidence could also reduce consumer spending. reduced consumer spending has and may in the future continue to result in reduced demand for our products and may also require increased selling and promotional expenses, which has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, during periods of relative economic weakness, our consolidated credit risk, reflecting our counterparty dealings with distributors, customers, capital providers and others may increase, perhaps materially so. furthermore, uncertainty and adverse changes in the economy could also increase the risk of material losses on our investments, increase costs associated with developing and publishing our products, increase the cost and availability of sources of financing, and increase our exposure to material losses from bad debts, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. if economic conditions worsen, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and in various other jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes, and in the ordinary course of business there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are required to estimate future taxes. although we currently believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the estimate process is inherently uncertain, and such estimates are not binding on tax authorities. further, our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including changes in the business, including the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax elections, and changes in applicable tax laws. additionally, tax determinations are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities and developments in those audits could adversely affect our income tax provision. should the ultimate tax liability exceed estimates, our income tax provision and net income or loss could be adversely affected. historically, we recorded a valuation allowance against most of our u.s. deferred tax assets. we expect to provide a valuation allowance on future u.s. tax benefits until we can sustain a level of profitability or until other significant positive evidence arises that suggest that these benefits are more likely than not to be realized. further, our tax determinations are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities and developments 12 table of contents in those audits could adversely affect our income tax provision. should our ultimate tax liability exceed our estimates, our income tax provision and net income or loss could be materially affected. we earn a significant amount of our operating income, and hold a significant portion of our cash, outside the u.s. any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions may result in higher effective tax rates for the company. in addition, there have been proposals to change u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form this proposed legislation will pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse impact on our income tax provision and financial condition. we are also required to pay taxes other than income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions. we are regularly under examination by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations, changes in our business or changes in applicable tax rules will not have an adverse effect on our net income or loss and financial condition. our quarterly operating results are dependent on the release of "hit" titles and are highly seasonal which may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate significantly. we have experienced and may continue to experience wide fluctuations in quarterly operating results. the release of a "hit" title typically leads to a high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. in addition, the interactive entertainment industry is highly seasonal, with sales typically higher during the fourth calendar quarter, due primarily to increased demand for games during the holiday season. demand for and sales of our sports titles are also seasonal in that they are typically released just prior to the start of the sport season which they depict. if a key event or sports season to which our product release schedule is tied were to be delayed or cancelled, our sales might also suffer disproportionately. our failure or inability to produce "hit" titles or introduce products on a timely basis to meet seasonal fluctuations in demand could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. the uncertainties associated with software development, manufacturing lead times, production delays and the approval process for products by hardware manufacturers and other licensors make it difficult to predict the quarter in which our products will ship and therefore may cause us to fail to meet financial expectations. returns of our published titles by our customers and price concessions granted to our customers may adversely affect our operating results. we are exposed to the risk of product returns and price concessions with respect to our customers. our distribution arrangements with customers generally do not give them the right to return titles to us or to cancel firm orders. however, we sometimes accept product returns from our distribution customers for stock balancing and negotiate accommodations for customers, which include credits and returns, when demand for specific products falls below expectations. we accept returns and grant price concessions in connection with our publishing arrangements and revenue is recognized after deducting estimated reserves for returns and price concessions. while we believe that we can reliably estimate future returns and price concessions, if return rates and price concessions for our products exceed our reserves, our revenue could decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. increased sales of used video game products could lower our sales. certain of our larger customers sell used video games, which are generally priced lower than new video games. if our customers increase their sales of used video games, it could negatively affect our sales of new video games and have an adverse influence on our business, financial condition and operating results. 13 table of contents a limited number of customers account for a significant portion of our sales. the loss of a principal customer or other significant business relationship could seriously hurt our business. a substantial portion of our product sales are made to a limited number of customers. sales to our five largest customers during the fiscal year ended march 31, 2015 accounted for approximately 64.6% of our net revenue, with gamestop accounting for 21.0%. our sales are made primarily pursuant to purchase orders without long-term agreements or other commitments, and our customers may terminate their relationship with us at any time. certain of our customers may decline to carry products containing mature content. the loss of our relationships with principal customers or a decline in sales to principal customers, including as a result of a product being rated "ao" (age 18 and over) could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. furthermore, our customers may also be placed into bankruptcy, become insolvent or be liquidated due to economic downturns, global contractions of credit or for other factors. bankruptcies or consolidations of certain large retail customers could seriously hurt our business, including as a result of uncollectible accounts receivable from such customers and the concentration of purchasing power among remaining large retailers. in addition, our results of operations may be adversely affected if certain of our customers who purchase on credit terms are no longer eligible to purchase on such terms due to their financial distress, which may reduce the quantity of products they demand from us. if our marketing and advertising efforts fail to resonate with consumers, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. our products are marketed worldwide through a diverse spectrum of advertising and promotional programs such as television and online advertising, print advertising, retail merchandising, website development and event sponsorship. our ability to sell our products and services is dependent in part on the success of these programs. if the marketing for our products and services fails to resonate with consumers, particularly during the holiday season or other key selling periods, or if advertising rates or other media placement costs increase, these factors could have a material adverse influence on our business, financial condition and operating results. the interactive entertainment software industry is highly competitive. we compete for both licenses to properties and the sale of interactive entertainment software with sony and microsoft, each of which is a large developer and marketer of software for its own platforms. we also compete with domestic game publishers, such as activision blizzard and electronic arts and international publishers, such as capcom, sega, square enix and ubisoft. as our business is dependent upon our ability to develop hit titles, which require increasing budgets for development and marketing, the availability of significant financial resources has become a major competitive factor in developing and marketing software games. some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, personnel and other resources than we do and are able to finance larger budgets for development and marketing and make higher offers to licensors and developers for commercially desirable properties. our titles also compete with other forms of entertainment, such as social media and casual games, in addition to motion pictures, television and audio and video products featuring similar themes, online computer programs and other entertainment, which may be less expensive or provide other advantages to consumers. a number of software publishers who compete with us have developed and commercialized or are currently developing online games for use by consumers over the internet. if technological advances significantly increase the availability of online games and if consumer acceptance of online gaming grows substantially, it could result in a decline in our platform-based software sales and negatively affect sales of such products. 14 table of contents increased competition for limited shelf space and promotional support from retailers could affect the success of our business and require us to incur greater expenses to market our titles. retailers have limited shelf space and promotional resources and competition is intense among newly introduced interactive entertainment software titles for adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support. competition for retail shelf space is expected to continue to increase, which may require us to increase our marketing expenditures to maintain desirable sales levels of our titles. competitors with more extensive lines and more popular titles may have greater bargaining power with retailers. accordingly, we may not be able, or we may have to pay more than our competitors, to achieve similar levels of promotional support and shelf space. our business is partly dependent on our ability to enter into successful software development arrangements with third-parties. our success depends on our ability to continually identify and develop new titles on a timely basis. we rely on third-party software developers for the development of some of our titles. quality third-party developers are continually in high demand. software developers who have developed titles for us in the past may not be available to develop software for us in the future. due to the limited number of third-party software developers and the limited control that we exercise over them, these developers may not be able to complete titles for us on a timely basis or within acceptable quality standards, if at all. we have entered into agreements with third-parties to acquire the rights to publish and distribute interactive entertainment software as well as to use licensed intellectual properties in our titles. these agreements typically require us to make development payments, pay royalties and satisfy other conditions. our development payments may not be sufficient to permit developers to develop new software successfully, which could result in material delays and significantly increase our costs to bring particular products to market. software development costs, promotion and marketing expenses and royalties payable to software developers and third-party licensors have increased significantly in recent years and reduce potential profits derived from sales of our software. future sales of our titles may not be sufficient to recover development payments and advances to software developers and licensors, and we may not have adequate financial and other resources to satisfy our contractual commitments to such developers. if we fail to satisfy our obligations under agreements with third-party developers and licensors, the agreements may be terminated or modified in ways that are burdensome to us, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we cannot publish our titles without the approval of hardware licensors that are also our competitors. we are required to obtain licenses from sony and microsoft, which are also our competitors, to develop and publish titles for their respective hardware platforms. our existing platform licenses require that we obtain approval for the publication of new titles on a title-by-title basis. as a result, the number of titles we are able to publish for these hardware platforms, our ability to manage the timing of the release of these titles and, accordingly, our net revenue from titles for these hardware platforms, may be limited. if a licensor chooses not to renew or extend our license agreement at the end of its current term, or if a licensor were to terminate our license for any reason or does not approve one or more of our titles, we may be unable to publish that title as well as additional titles for that licensor's platform. termination of any such agreements or disapproval of titles could seriously hurt our business and prospects. we may be unable to continue to enter into license agreements for certain current generation platforms on satisfactory terms or at all. failure to enter into any such agreement could also seriously hurt our business. we rely on a limited number of channel partners some of whom influence the fee structures for online distribution of our games on their platforms. we rely on a limited number of channel partners, some of whom have retained the right to change the fee structures for online distribution of both paid content and free content (including patches and corrections) 15 table of contents that we license to them for distribution on their platforms. such channel partners' ability to set or influence royalty rates may increase costs, which could negatively affect our operating margins. we may be unable to distribute our content in a cost-effective or profitable manner through such distribution channel, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. outside of fee arrangements, our agreements with our channel partners sometimes give them significant control over other aspects of the distribution of our products and services that we develop for their platform. if our channel partners establish terms that restrict our offerings through their channels, or significantly impact the financial terms on which these products or services are offered to our customers, we may be unable to distribute our product offerings through them or be forced to do so on a materially worse financial or business terms. we may not be able to adequately adjust our cost structure in a timely fashion in response to a sudden decrease in demand. in the event of a significant decline in revenue, we may not be able to dispose of facilities, reduce personnel or make other changes to our cost structure without disruption to our operations or without significant termination and exit costs. management may not be able to implement such actions in a timely manner, if at all, to offset an immediate shortfall in revenue and profit. moreover, reducing costs may impair our ability to produce and develop software titles at sufficient levels in the future. the increasing importance of digital sales to our business exposes us to the risks of that business model, including greater competition. the proportion of our revenues derived from digital content delivery, as compared to traditional retail sales, may continue to increase. the increased importance of digital content delivery in our industry increases our potential competition, as the minimum capital needed to produce and publish a digitally delivered game is significantly less than that needed to produce and publish one that is purchased through retail distribution and is played on a game console. this will also require us to dedicate capital to developing and implementing alternative marketing strategies, which we may not do successfully. if either occurs, we may be unable to effectively market and distribute our products, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, a continuing shift to digital delivery could result in a deprioritization of our products by traditional retailers. we depend on servers and internet bandwidth to operate our games and digital services with online features. if we were to lose server capacity or lack sufficient internet bandwidth for any reason, our business could suffer. we rely on data servers, including those owned or controlled by third parties, to enable our customers to download our games and other downloadable content, and to operate our online games and other products with online functionality. events such as limited hardware failure, any broad-based catastrophic server malfunction, a significant intrusion by hackers that circumvents security measures, or a failure of disaster recovery services would likely interrupt the functionality of our games with online services and could result in a loss of sales for games and related services. an extended interruption of service could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. we expect a significant portion of our games to be on-line enabled in the future, and therefore we must project our future server needs and make advance purchases of servers or server capacity to accommodate expected business demands. if we underestimate the amount of server capacity our business requires or if our business were to grow more quickly than expected, our consumers may experience service problems, such as slow or interrupted gaming access. insufficient server capacity may result in decreased sales, a loss of our consumer base and adverse consequences to our reputation. conversely, if we overestimate the amount of server capacity required by our business, we may incur additional operating costs. 16 table of contents because of the potential importance of our online business to our revenues and results of operations, our ability to access adequate internet bandwidth and online computational resources to support our business is critical. if the price of either such resource increases, we may not be able to increase our prices or subscriber levels to compensate for such costs, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. we submit our products for rating by the entertainment software rating board ("esrb") in the united states and other voluntary or government ratings organizations in foreign countries. failure to obtain a target rating for certain of our products could negatively affect our ability to distribute and sell those games, as could the re-rating of a game for any reason. we voluntarily submit our game products to the esrb, a u.s.-based non-profit and independent ratings organization. the esrb system provides consumers with information about game content using a rating symbol that generally suggests the appropriate player age group and specific content descriptors, such as graphic violence, profanity or sexually explicit material. the esrb may impose significant penalties on game publishers for violations of its rules related to rating or marketing games, including revocation of a rating or monetary fines up to $1 million. other countries require voluntary or government backed ratings as prerequisites for product sales. in some instances, we may have to modify our products in order to market them under the target rating, which could delay or disrupt the release of our products. in addition, some of our titles may not be sold at all or without extensive edits in certain countries, such as germany. in the united states, if the esrb rates a game as "ao" (age 18 and older), platform licensors may not certify the game and retailers may refuse to sell it. in addition, some consumers have reacted to re-ratings or controversial game content by refusing to purchase such games, demanding refunds for games that they had already purchased, and refraining from buying other games published by us. many of our rockstar titles and certain of our 2k titles have been rated "m" (age 17 and older) by the esrb. if we are unable to obtain "m" ratings and instead receive "ao" ratings on future versions of those or similar titles as a result of changes in the esrb's ratings standards or for other reasons, including the adoption of legislation in this area, our business and prospects could be negatively affected. if any of our games are re-rated by the esrb or other foreign based ratings organizations, we could be exposed to litigation, administrative fines and penalties and other potential liabilities, and our operating results and financial condition could be significantly affected. we have implemented processes to comply with the requirements of the esrb and other ratings organizations and properly display the designated rating symbols and content descriptions. nonetheless, these processes are subject to human error, circumvention, overriding and reasonable resource constraints. if a video game we published were found to contain undisclosed pertinent content, the esrb could re-rate a game, retailers could refuse to sell it and demand that we accept the return of any unsold copies or returns from customers, and consumers could refuse to buy it or demand that we refund their money. this could have a material negative affect on our operating results and financial condition. in addition, we may be exposed to litigation, administrative fines and penalties and our reputation could be harmed, which could affect sales of other video games we sell. if any of these consequences were to occur, our business and financial performance could be significantly harmed. content policies adopted by retailers, consumer opposition and litigation could negatively affect sales of our products. retailers may decline to sell interactive entertainment software containing what they judge to be graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other content that they deem inappropriate for their businesses. if retailers decline to sell our products based upon their opinion that they contain objectionable themes, graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other generally objectionable content, or if any of our previously "m" rated series products are rated "ao," we might be required to significantly change or discontinue particular titles or series, which in the case of our best-selling grand theft auto titles could 17 table of contents seriously affect our business. consumer advocacy groups have opposed sales of interactive entertainment software containing objectionable themes, violence or sexual material or other objectionable content by pressing for legislation in these areas and by engaging in public demonstrations and media campaigns. additionally, although lawsuits seeking damages for injuries allegedly suffered by third-parties as a result of video games have generally been unsuccessful in the courts, claims of this kind have been asserted against us from time to time and may be asserted and be successful in the future. we are subject to risks and uncertainties of international trade, including fluctuations in the values of local foreign currencies against the dollar. sales in international markets, primarily in europe, have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenue. for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2015, approximately 42.5% of our net revenue was earned outside the united states. we have also expanded our asian operations in an effort to increase our geographical scope and diversify our revenue base. we are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased credit risks, tariffs and duties, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, shipping delays, and international political, regulatory and economic developments, all of which can have a significant influence on our operating results. many of our international sales are made in local currencies, which could fluctuate against the dollar. while we may use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our operating results could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. we face risks from our international operations. we are subject to certain risks because of our international operations, particularly as we continue to grow our business and presence in asia, latin america and other parts of the world. changes to and compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations may increase our cost of doing business and our inability or failure to obtain required approvals could harm our international and domestic sales. trade legislation in either the united states or other countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, import/export compliance laws or other trade laws or policies, could adversely affect our ability to sell or to distribute in international markets. we incur additional legal compliance costs associated with our international operations and could become subject to legal penalties in foreign countries if we do not comply with local laws and regulations which may be substantially different from those in the united states. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by united states laws and regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, and by local laws, such as laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials. although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, including those based in or from countries where practices which violate such laws may be customary, will not take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. if we are unable to protect the intellectual property relating to our software, the commercial value of our products will be adversely affected and our competitive position could be harmed. we develop proprietary software and have obtained the rights to publish and distribute software developed by third-parties. we attempt to protect our software and production techniques under copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as well as through contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and distribution. our software is susceptible to piracy and unauthorized copying. unauthorized third-parties may be able to copy or to reverse engineer our software to obtain and use programming or production techniques that we regard as proprietary. well organized piracy operations have also proliferated in recent years, resulting in the ability to download pirated copies of our software over the internet. although we attempt to incorporate protective measures into our software, piracy of our products could negatively affect our future profitability. 18 table of contents if we infringe on or are alleged to infringe on the intellectual property rights of third-parties, our business could be adversely affected. as our industry grows, we may be subject to an increasing amount of litigation that is common in the software industry based on allegations of infringement or other alleged violations of patent, copyright and/or trademarks. in addition, we believe that interactive entertainment software will increasingly become the subject of claims that such software infringes on the intellectual property rights of others with both the growth of online functionality and advances in technology, game content and software graphics as games become more realistic. from time to time, we receive notices from third-parties or are named in lawsuits by third-parties alleging infringement of their proprietary rights. although we believe that our software and technologies and the software and technologies of third-party developers and publishers with whom we have contractual relations do not and will not infringe or violate proprietary rights of others, it is possible that infringement of proprietary rights of others may occur. any claims of infringement, with or without merit, could be time consuming, costly and difficult to defend. moreover, intellectual property litigation or claims could require us to discontinue the distribution of products, obtain a license or redesign our products, which could result in additional substantial costs and material delays. our software is susceptible to errors, which can harm our financial results and reputation. the technological advancements of new hardware platforms result in the development of more complex software products. as software products become more complex, the risk of undetected errors in new products increases. we may need to produce and distribute patches in order to repair such errors, which could be costly and may distract our developers from working on new products. if, despite testing, errors are found in new products or releases after shipments have been made, we could experience a loss of or delay in timely market acceptance, product returns, loss of revenue, increases in costs relating to the repair of such errors and damage to our reputation. if we acquire or invest in other businesses, intellectual properties or other assets, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired and/or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for such transactions. if appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may acquire or make investments in businesses, intellectual properties and other assets that we believe are strategic. we may not be able to identify, negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment successfully. even if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a business, intellectual property or other asset, such acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including: retaining key employees and maintaining the key business and customer relationships of the businesses we acquire; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from an acquired company or business into our organization; the possibility that the combined company would not achieve the expected benefits, including any anticipated operating and product synergies, of the acquisition as quickly as anticipated or that the costs of, or operational difficulties arising from, an acquisition would be greater than anticipated; significant acquisition-related accounting adjustments, particularly relating to an acquired company's deferred revenue, that may cause reported revenue and profits of the combined company to be lower than the sum of their stand-alone revenue and profits; significant accounting charges resulting from the completion and integration of a sizeable acquisition and increased capital expenditures, including potential impairment charges incurred to write down the carrying amount of intangible assets generated as a result of an acquisition; 19 table of contents the possibility that we will not discover important facts during due diligence that could have a material adverse effect on the value of the businesses we acquire, including the possibility that a change of control of a company we acquire triggers a termination of contractual or intellectual property rights important to the operation of its business; the need to integrate an acquired company's accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management and timely reporting, and the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company in an acquired company that, prior to the acquisition, lacked these controls, procedures and policies; litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risks as a result of, an acquisition, including claims from terminated employees, customers or other third-parties; and to the extent that we engage in strategic transactions outside of the united states, we face additional risks, including risks related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. future acquisitions and investments could also involve the issuance of our equity and equity-linked securities (potentially diluting our existing stockholders), the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, write-offs of goodwill, intangibles, or acquired in-process technology, or other increased cash and non-cash expenses such as stock- based compensation. any of the foregoing factors could harm our financial condition or prevent us from achieving improvements in our financial condition and operating performance that could have otherwise been achieved by us on a stand-alone basis. our stockholders may not have the opportunity to review, vote on or evaluate future acquisitions or investments. our ability to acquire and maintain licenses to intellectual property, especially for sports titles, affects our revenue and profitability. competition for these licenses may make them more expensive and increase our costs. certain of our products are based on or incorporate intellectual property owned by others. for example, certain of our 2k products include rights licensed from major sports leagues and players' associations. similarly, some of our other titles are based on licenses of popular entertainment products. competition for these licenses is intense. if we are unable to maintain these licenses or obtain additional licenses on reasonable economic terms or with significant commercial value, our revenue and profitability could decline significantly. competition for these licenses may also increase the advances, guarantees and royalties that we must pay to the licensor, which could significantly increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability. in addition, on certain intellectual property licenses, we are subject to guaranteed minimum payments, royalties or standards of performance and may not be able to terminate these agreements prior to their stated expiration. if such licensed products do not generate revenues in excess of such minimum guarantees, our profitability will be adversely affected. we may need additional capital if we incur losses. if we incur losses in the future, we may be required to raise additional capital in order to fund our operations. we could seek to raise capital in a number of ways, including through the issuance of debt or equity, or through other financing arrangements. in august 2014, we entered into a third amendment to the second amended and restated credit agreement (as amended, the "credit agreement"), which requires us to make periodic interest or other debt service payments. in addition, we issued 1.75% convertible notes due 2016 in november 2011 and 1.00% convertible notes due 2018 in june 2013 (the "1.75% convertible notes" and together with the 1.00% convertible notes, the "convertible notes"), which require us to make periodic interest payments to the holders of the convertible notes. if we borrow additional funds, further debt service payments would probably be necessary. in addition, the terms of 20 table of contents additional debt may impose significant restrictions on our ability to operate our business. if we seek financing through the sale of equity or equity-based securities (such as our convertible notes), our current stockholders will suffer dilution in their percentage ownership of common stock. we cannot be certain as to our ability to raise additional capital in the future or under what terms capital would be available. if we need to raise capital and are not successful in doing so, we will have to consider other options that may include, but are not limited to, a reduction in our expenditures for internal and external new product development, reductions in overhead expenses, and sales of intellectual property and other assets. these actions, should they become necessary, will likely result in a reduction in the size of our operations and could materially affect the prospects of our business. we are subject to contractual covenants which place certain limitations on how we manage our business . our credit agreement and the indentures governing our convertible notes may limit our ability to take various actions, including incurring additional debt, paying dividends, repurchasing shares and acquiring or disposing of assets or businesses. in addition, we have granted a security interest in connection with certain compensatory arrangements which limits our ability to incur senior debt in excess of certain amounts. accordingly, we may be restricted from taking actions that management believes would be desirable and in the best interests of us and our stockholders. our credit agreement and the indentures also require us to satisfy specified financial and non-financial covenants. a breach of any of the covenants contained in our credit agreement could result in an event of default under the agreement and under the indentures governing our convertible notes and would allow our lenders and noteholders to pursue various remedies, including accelerating the repayment of any outstanding indebtedness. our business and products are subject to potential legislation. the adoption of such proposed legislation could limit the retail market for our products. several proposals have been made for federal legislation to regulate our industry. such proposals seek to prohibit the sale of products containing certain content included in some of our games. if any such proposals are enacted into law, it may limit the potential market for some of our games in the united states, and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. other countries, such as germany, have adopted laws regulating content both in packaged games and those transmitted over the internet that are stricter than current united states laws. in the united states, proposals have also been made by numerous state legislators to regulate and prohibit the sale of interactive entertainment software products containing certain types of violent or sexual content to under 17 or 18 audiences, such as the state of california's "ultraviolent video games law" that sought to ban the sale or rental of violent video games to minors. while such legislation to date has been enjoined by industry and retail groups or been found unconstitutional, the adoption into law of such legislation in federal and/or in state jurisdictions in which we do significant business could severely limit the retail market for some of our games. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill becomes impaired. we are required under u.s. generally accepted accounting principles to review our goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating a requirement to reevaluate whether our goodwill continues to be recoverable, include a significant decline in stock price and market capitalization, slower growth rates in our industry or other materially adverse events. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill is determined. this may adversely affect our operating results. 21 table of contents our reported financial results could be adversely affected by the application of existing or future accounting standards to our business as it evolves. our reported financial results are affected by the accounting policies promulgated by the sec and national accounting standards bodies and the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies. for example, standards regarding software revenue recognition have and could further significantly affect the way we account for revenue related to our products and services. as we enhance, expand and diversify our business and product offerings, the application of existing or future financial accounting standards, particularly those relating to the way we account for revenue, could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results although not necessarily on our cash flows. risks relating to our common stock for purposes of this section "risks relating to our common stock," references to "the company," "we," "our," and "us" refer only to take-two interactive software, inc. and not to its subsidiaries. additional issuances of equity securities by us would dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders. we may issue equity or equity-based securities (such as our convertible notes) in the future in connection with acquisitions or strategic transactions, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, including through repayment of outstanding debt, to fund expansion of our operations or for other purposes. to the extent we issue additional equity securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders would be reduced. there is no guarantee that we will do additional share repurchases in the future. the share repurchase program authorized by the board of directors, which authorized the repurchase of up to 7,500,000 shares of our common stock and had 3,283,000 shares available for repurchase as of march 31, 2015, does not obligate the company to make any purchases at any specific time or situation. on may 13, 2015, our board of directors approved an increase to the share repurchase authorization, increasing the total number of shares that the company is permitted to repurchase to up to 10,000,000 shares of our common stock. discontinuing repurchases could adversely affect the price of the company's common stock. the program may be suspended or discontinued at any time for any reason. future sales or other issuances of our common stock could adversely affect its market price. the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect its price. the sale or the availability for sale of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause the price of our common stock to decline. the issuance of shares of our common stock upon conversion of our convertible notes could also adversely affect the price of our common stock. our stock price has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate significantly. the market price of our common stock historically has been, and we expect will continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations. these fluctuations may be due to factors specific to us including those discussed in the risk factors in this section as well as others not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material, to changes in securities analysts' earnings estimates or ratings, to our results or future financial guidance falling below our expectations and analysts' and investors' expectations, to factors affecting the computer, software, entertainment, media or electronics industries, or to national or international economic conditions. stock markets, in general, have experienced over the years, and continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected market prices for companies such as ours and that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. these broad 22 table of contents market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. delaware law, our charter documents and provisions of our debt agreements may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline. we are a delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third-party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. our board of directors has the power, without stockholder approval, to adopt a stockholder rights plan and/or to designate the terms of one or more series of preferred stock and issue shares of preferred stock. in addition, we may under certain circumstances involving a change of control, be obligated to repurchase all or a portion of our convertible notes and any potential acquirer would be required to assume our obligations related to any outstanding convertible notes. we or any possible acquirer may not have available financial resources necessary to repurchase those notes. the ability of our board of directors to create and issue a new series of preferred stock and certain provisions of delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the indenture governing our notes could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market price of our common stock and the value of any outstanding notes. our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to reduce future years' taxes could be substantially limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in the internal revenue code. section 382 of the internal revenue code contains rules that limit the ability of a company to use its net operating loss carryforwards in years after an ownership change, which is generally defined as any change in ownership of more than 50% of its stock over a three-year testing period. these rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes among stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of the stock of a company and/or any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by the company. if, as a result of future transactions involving our common stock, including purchases or sales of stock by 5% stockholders, we undergo cumulative ownership changes which exceed 50% over the testing period, our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards would be subject to additional limitations under section 382. generally, if an ownership change occurs, the annual taxable income limitation on the use of net operating loss carryforwards is equal to the product of the applicable long-term tax exempt rate and the value of the company's stock immediately before the ownership change. depending on the resulting limitation, a portion of our net operating loss carryforwards could expire before we would be able to use them. our inability to fully utilize our net operating losses to offset taxable income generated in the future could have a material and negative affect on our future financial position and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 54 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential loss arising from fluctuations in market rates and prices. our market risk exposures primarily include fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rate risk historically, fluctuations in interest rates have not had a significant effect on our operating results. under our credit agreement, outstanding balances bear interest at our election of (a) 0.50% to 1.00% above a certain base rate (3.75% at march 31, 2015), or (b) 1.50% to 2.00% above the libor rate (approximately 1.76% at march 31, 2015), with the margin rate subject to the achievement of certain average liquidity levels. changes in market rates may affect our future interest expense if there is an outstanding balance on our line of credit. the 1.75% convertible notes and the 1.00% convertible notes pay interest semi-annually at a fixed rate of 1.75% and 1.00%, respectively, per annum and we expect that there will be no fluctuation related to the convertible notes affecting our cash component of interest expense. for additional details on our convertible notes see note 10 to our consolidated financial statements. foreign currency exchange rate risk we transact business in foreign currencies and are exposed to risks resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. accounts relating to foreign operations are translated into united states dollars using prevailing exchange rates at the relevant period end. translation adjustments are included as a separate component of stockholders' equity. for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2015 and 2014, our foreign currency translation adjustment was approximately $32.7 million loss and $6.4 million gain, respectively. we recognized a foreign currency exchange transaction loss of $2.1 million for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2015, a foreign currency gain of $0.2 million for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2014, and a foreign currency exchange transaction loss for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2013 of $0.8 million, in interest and other, net in our consolidated statements of operations. cash flow hedging activities we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with forecasted transactions involving non-functional currency denominated expenditures. these contracts, which are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges, are accounted for as derivatives whereby the fair value of the contracts is reported as either assets or liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. the effective portion of gains or losses resulting from changes in the fair value of these hedges is initially reported, net of tax, as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders' equity. the gross amount of the effective portion of gains or losses resulting from changes in the fair value of these hedges is subsequently reclassified into cost of goods sold or research and development expenses, as appropriate, in the period when the forecasted transaction is recognized in our consolidated statements of operations. in the event that the gains or losses in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are deemed to be ineffective, the ineffective portion of gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value, if any, is reclassified to interest and other, net, in our consolidated statements of operations. in the event that the underlying forecasted transactions do not occur, or it becomes probable that they will not occur, within the defined hedge period, the gains or losses on the related cash flow hedges are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to interest and other, net, in our consolidated statements of operations. during the reporting periods presented, all forecasted transactions occurred, and therefore, there were no such gains or losses reclassified into interest and other, net. we do not enter into derivative financial contracts for speculative or trading purposes. at march 31, 2015 we did not have cash flow hedging contracts outstanding and at march 31, 2014, we had $0.9 million, of forward contracts outstanding to buy foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars all of which had maturities of less than one year. as of march 31, 2014, the fair value of these outstanding forward contracts was immaterial and is 54 table of contents included in prepaid expenses and other. the fair value of these outstanding forward contracts is estimated based on the prevailing exchange rates of the various hedged currencies as of the end of the period. balance sheet hedging activities we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with non-functional currency denominated cash balances and inter-company funding loans, non-functional currency denominated accounts receivable and non-functional currency denominated accounts payable. these transactions are not designated as hedging instruments and are accounted for as derivatives whereby the fair value of the contracts is reported as either assets or liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, and gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair value are reported in interest and other, net, in our consolidated statements of operations. we do not enter into derivative financial contracts for speculative or trading purposes. at march 31, 2015, we had $4.1 million of forward contracts outstanding to buy foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars and $72.5 million of forward contracts outstanding to sell foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars all of which have maturities of less than one year. at march 31, 2014, we had $68.5 million of forward contracts outstanding to sell foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars all of which have maturities of less than one year. for the fiscal years ended march 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, we recorded a gain of $18.5 million, a loss of $18.4 million and a gain of $2.2 million, respectively, related to foreign currency forward contracts in interest and other, net on the consolidated statements of operations. as of march 31, 2015 the fair value of these outstanding forward contracts was a loss of $0.6 million and as of march 31, 2014 was immaterial and is included in prepaid expenses and other. the fair value of these outstanding forward contracts is estimated based on the prevailing exchange rates of the various hedged currencies as of the end of the period. our hedging programs are designed to reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the effect of currency exchange rate movements. we believe the counterparties to these foreign currency forward contracts are creditworthy multinational commercial banks and that the risk of counterparty nonperformance is not material. notwithstanding our efforts to mitigate some foreign currency exchange rate risks, there can be no assurance that our hedging activities will adequately protect us against the risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations. for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2015, 42.5% of the company's revenue was generated outside the united states. using sensitivity analysis, a hypothetical 10% increase in the value of the u.s. dollar against all currencies would decrease revenues by 4.3%, while a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of the u.s. dollar against all currencies would increase revenues by 4.3%. in the opinion of management, a substantial portion of this fluctuation would be offset by cost of goods sold and operating expenses incurred in local currency.risk factors 8 risk factors our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. because of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other factors affecting our operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance and our business and financial performance could be harmed and the market value of our securities could decline. risks relating to our business we are dependent on the future success of our grand theft auto products and we must continue to publish "hit" titles or sequels to such "hit" titles in order to compete successfully in our industry. grand theft auto and certain of our other titles are "hit" products and have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our revenue. grand theft auto products contributed 54.5% of the company's net revenue for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2016 and the five best-selling franchises (including grand theft auto ), which may change year over year, in the aggregate accounted for 93.7% of the company's net revenue for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2016. if we fail to continue to develop and sell new commercially successful "hit" titles or sequels to such "hit" titles or experience any delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our "hit" titles or their sequels, our revenue and profits may decrease substantially and we may incur losses. in addition, competition in our industry is intense and a relatively small number of hit titles account for a large portion of total revenue in our industry. hit products offered by our competitors may take a larger share of consumer spending than we anticipate, which could cause revenue generated from our products to fall below our expectations. if our competitors develop more successful products or services at lower price points or based on payment models perceived as offering better value, or if we do not continue to develop consistently high quality and well-received products and services, our revenue and profitability may decline. in addition, both the online and mobile games marketplaces are characterized by frequent product introductions, relatively low barriers to entry, and new and evolving business methods, technologies and platforms for development. widespread consumer adoption of these new platforms for games and other technological advances in online or mobile game offerings could negatively affect our sales of console and traditional pc products before we have an opportunity to develop profitable businesses in such markets. we are subject to product development risks which could result in delays and additional costs, and we must adapt to changes in software technologies. we depend on our internal development studios and third-party software developers to develop new interactive entertainment software within anticipated release schedules and cost projections. the development cycle for new titles generally ranges from 12 months for annual sports releases, to multiple years for certain of our top-selling titles. therefore our development costs can be substantial. if we or our third party developers experience unanticipated development delays, financial difficulties or additional costs, we may not be able to release titles according to our schedule and at budgeted costs. there can be no assurance that our products will be sufficiently successful so that we can recoup these costs or make a profit on these products. additionally, in order to stay competitive, our internal development studios must anticipate and adapt to rapid technological changes affecting software development. any inability to respond to technological advances and implement new technologies could render our products obsolete or less marketable. 8 table of contents the inability of our products to achieve significant market acceptance, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our products may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. new products may not achieve significant market acceptance, generate sufficient sales or be introduced in a timely manner to permit us to recover development, manufacturing and marketing costs associated with these products. the life cycle of a title generally involves a relatively high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. because sales associated with an initial product launch generally constitute a high percentage of the total sales associated with the life of a product, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of one or more new products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results and cause our operating results to be materially different from our expectations. our business is subject to our ability to develop commercially successful products for the current video game platforms. we derive most of our revenue from the sale of products made for video game platforms manufactured by third parties, such as sony's ps4 and ps3 and microsoft's xbox one and xbox 360, which comprised 82.6% of the company's net revenue by product platform for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2016. the success of our business is subject to the continued popularity of these platforms and our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. connectivity issues could affect our ability to sell and provide online services for our products and could affect our profitability. we rely upon third-party digital delivery platforms, such as microsoft's xbox live, sony entertainment network, steam and other third-party service providers, to provide connectivity from the consumer to our digital products and our online services. connectivity issues could prevent customers from accessing this content and our ability to successfully market and sell our products could be adversely affected. in addition, we could experience similar issues related to services we host on our internal servers. such issues also could affect our ability to provide online services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. our business could be adversely affected if our consumer data protection measures are not seen as adequate or there are breaches of our security measures or unintended disclosures of our consumer data. we are collecting and storing consumer information, including personal information. we take measures to protect our consumer data from unauthorized access or disclosure. it is possible that our security controls over consumer data may not prevent the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information. in addition, due to the high profile nature of our products, we may draw a disproportionately higher amount of attention and attempts to breach our security controls than companies with lower profile products. a security breach that leads to disclosure of consumer account information (including personally identifiable information) could harm our reputation, compel us to comply with disparate breach notification laws in various jurisdictions and otherwise subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. a resulting perception that our products or services do not adequately protect the privacy of personal information could result in a loss of current or potential consumers and business partners. in addition, if any of our business partners experience a security breach that leads to disclosure of consumer account information, our reputation could be harmed, resulting in loss of revenue. in addition, certain of our products are online enabled. the ability of our products to offer online functionality, and our ability to offer content through a video game platform's digital distribution channel, is dependent upon the continued operation and security of such platform's online network. these third 9 table of contents party networks, as well as our own internal systems and websites, and the security measures related thereto may be breached as a result of third-party action, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and result in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our customers' data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information, or our information technology systems. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. if an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, we may lose business, suffer irreparable damage to our reputation, and/or incur significant costs and expenses relating to the investigation and possible litigation of claims relating to such event. the laws and regulations concerning data privacy and certain other aspects of our business are continually evolving. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could harm our business. we are subject to certain privacy and data protection laws, including those in the united states. certain aspects of our activities are subject to the e.u.-u.s. privacy shield and certain activities related to e.u. customers are registered with our u.k. data controller. the u.s. children's online privacy protection act also regulates the collection, use, and disclosure of personal information from children under 13 years of age. failure to comply with privacy laws, data protection laws, or age restrictions may increase our costs, subject us to expensive and distracting government investigations, and result in substantial fines. privacy and data protection laws are rapidly changing and likely will continue to do so for the foreseeable future, which could impact our approach to operating and marketing our games. for example, the court of justice of the european union's recent decision to invalidate the e.u.-u.s. safe harbor regime that legitimized the transfer of certain personal data from the e.u. to the u.s. was a material change to laws on data privacy applicable to our business. the european commission and the u.s. government have recently agreed to a new framework for transatlantic data flows known as the "e.u.-u.s. privacy shield," which is intended to replace the safe harbor regime, but the details of how this will operate in practice and the compliance implications for our business are not yet clear. the u.s. government, including the federal trade commission and the department of commerce, is continuing to review the need for greater regulation over the collection of personal information and information about consumer behavior on the internet and on mobile devices, and the e.u. has proposed reforms to its existing data protection legal framework. various government and consumer agencies worldwide have also called for new regulation and changes in industry practices. player use of our games is subject to our privacy policy, end user license agreements, and terms of service. if we fail to comply with our posted privacy policy, eulas, or terms of service, or if we fail to comply with existing privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations, it could result in proceedings or litigation against us by governmental authorities or others, which could result in fines or judgments against us, damage our reputation, impact our financial condition and harm our business. if regulators, the media, or consumers raise any concerns about our privacy and data protection or consumer protection practices, even if unfounded, this could also result in fines or judgments against us, damage our reputation, negatively impact our financial condition, and damage our business. it is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted or construed to apply to us in the united states and elsewhere that could restrict the interactive entertainment industry, including player privacy, advertising, taxation, content suitability, copyright, distribution and antitrust. furthermore, the growth and development of electronic commerce and virtual goods may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on companies such as ours conducting business through digital sales. any such changes would require us to devote legal and other resources to address such regulation. for example, existing laws or new laws regarding the regulation of currency, banking institutions and unclaimed property may be interpreted to cover virtual currency or virtual goods. if that were to occur we may be required to seek licenses, authorizations or approvals from relevant 10 table of contents regulators, the granting of which may be dependent on us meeting certain capital and other requirements and we may be subject to additional regulation and oversight, all of which could significantly increase our operating costs. changes in current laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws and regulations in the united states or elsewhere regarding these activities may lessen the growth of the interactive entertainment industry and impair our business, financial condition, and operating results. security breaches involving the source code for our products or other sensitive and proprietary information could adversely affect our business. we securely store the source code for our interactive entertainment software products as it is created. a breach, whether physical, electronic or otherwise, of the systems on which such source code and other sensitive data are stored could lead to damage or piracy of our software. in addition, certain parties with whom we do business are given access to our sensitive and proprietary information in order to provide services and support our team. these third parties may misappropriate our information and engage in unauthorized use of it. if we are subject to data security breaches, we may have a loss in sales or increased costs arising from the restoration or implementation of additional security measures which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. any theft and/or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an event could adversely affect our competitive position, reputation, brand, and future sales of our products. our business could be subject to significant disruption, and we could suffer monetary and other losses and reputational harm, in the event of such incidents and claims. we rely on complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business. any significant system or network disruption could negatively impact our business. we rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks, some of which are within take-two and some of which are managed and/or hosted by third-party providers. all information technology systems and networks are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including but not limited to cyber-attacks, malicious software, security breach, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. we may also face sophisticated attacks, referred to as advanced persistent threats, which are cyber-attacks aimed at compromising our intellectual property and other commercially-sensitive information, such as the source code and game assets for our software or confidential customer or employee information, which remain undetected for prolonged periods of time. information technology system or network failure or security breach could negatively impact our business continuity, operations and financial results. these risks extend to the networks and e-commerce sites of console platform providers and other partners who sell and host our content online. we may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches. our efforts to expand into new products and services may subject us to additional risks. in recent years, we have invested in emerging opportunities in interactive entertainment played on mobile platforms, including tablets and smartphones, and online platforms, including social networks. we have also grown our product offerings that are available through digital download. we are actively investing to capitalize on these trends in order to diversify our product mix, reduce our operating risks, and increase our revenue. there are risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. there is no assurance that we will be able to attract a sufficiently large number of customers or recover costs incurred for developing and marketing these new products or services. external factors, such as competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful implementation of any new products or services. failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 11 table of contents we depend on our key management and product development personnel. our continued success will depend to a significant extent on our senior management team and our relationship with zelnickmedia corporation ("zelnickmedia"). our executive chairman/chief executive officer and president are partners of zelnickmedia. we are also highly dependent on the expertise, skills and knowledge of certain of our rockstar employees and other key creative personnel responsible for content creation and development of our grand theft auto titles and titles based on other brands. we may not be able to continue to retain these personnel at current compensation levels, or at all. the loss of the services of our executive officers, zelnickmedia, our key rockstar employees or other key creative personnel could significantly harm our business. in addition, if one or more key employees were to join a competitor or form a competing company, we may lose additional personnel, experience material interruptions in product development, delays in bringing products to market and difficulties in our relationships with licensors, suppliers and customers, which would significantly harm our business. failure to continue to attract and retain other qualified management and creative personnel could adversely affect our business and prospects. declines in consumer spending and other adverse changes in the economy could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. most of our products involve discretionary spending on the part of consumers. we believe that consumer spending is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. this makes our products particularly sensitive to general economic conditions and economic cycles as consumers are generally more willing to make discretionary purchases, including purchases of products like ours, during periods in which favorable economic conditions prevail. adverse economic conditions such as a prolonged u.s. or international general economic downturn, including periods of increased inflation, unemployment levels, tax rates, interest rates, energy prices or declining consumer confidence could also reduce consumer spending. reduced consumer spending has and may in the future continue to result in reduced demand for our products and may also require increased selling and promotional expenses, which has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, during periods of relative economic weakness, our consolidated credit risk, reflecting our counterparty dealings with distributors, customers, capital providers and others may increase, perhaps materially so. furthermore, uncertainty and adverse changes in the economy could also increase the risk of material losses on our investments, increase costs associated with developing and publishing our products, increase the cost and availability of sources of financing, and increase our exposure to material losses from bad debts, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. if economic conditions worsen, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and in various other jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes, and in the ordinary course of business there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are required to estimate future taxes. although we currently believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the estimate process is inherently uncertain, and such estimates are not binding on tax authorities. further, our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including changes in the business, including the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax elections, and changes in applicable tax laws. additionally, tax determinations are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities and developments in those audits could adversely affect our income tax provision. should the ultimate tax liability exceed estimates, our income tax provision and net income or loss could be adversely affected. 12 table of contents historically, we recorded a valuation allowance against most of our u.s. deferred tax assets. we expect to provide a valuation allowance on future u.s. tax benefits until we can sustain a level of profitability or until other significant positive evidence arises that suggest that these benefits are more likely than not to be realized. further, our tax determinations are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities and developments in those audits could adversely affect our income tax provision. should our ultimate tax liability exceed our estimates, our income tax provision and net income or loss could be materially affected. we earn a significant amount of our operating income, and hold a significant portion of our cash, outside the u.s. any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions may result in higher effective tax rates for the company. in addition, there have been proposals to change u.s. tax laws that would significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form this proposed legislation will pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse impact on our income tax provision and financial condition. we are also required to pay taxes other than income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions. we are regularly under examination by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations, changes in our business or changes in applicable tax rules will not have an adverse effect on our net income or loss and financial condition. unclaimed property audits by governmental authorities could adversely impact our operating results. we are subject to unclaimed property (escheat) laws which require us to turn over to certain government authorities the property of others held by us that has been unclaimed for a specified period of time. we are subject to audit by individual u.s. states with regard to our escheatment practices. the legislation and regulations related to unclaimed property matters tend to be complex and subject to varying interpretations by both government authorities and taxpayers. although management believes that the positions we have taken are reasonable, various taxing authorities may challenge certain of the positions we have taken, which may also potentially result in additional liabilities for unclaimed property and interest in excess of accrued liabilities. our positions are reviewed as events occur such as the availability of new information, the lapsing of applicable statutes of limitations, the measurement of additional estimated liability based on current calculations or the rendering of relevant court decisions. an unfavorable resolution of assessments by a governmental authority could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods. our quarterly operating results are dependent on the release of "hit" titles and are highly seasonal which may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate significantly. we have experienced and may continue to experience wide fluctuations in quarterly operating results. the release of a "hit" title typically leads to a high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. in addition, the interactive entertainment industry is highly seasonal, with sales typically higher during the fourth calendar quarter, due primarily to increased demand for games during the holiday season. demand for and sales of titles in our nba 2k series are also seasonal in that they are typically released just prior to the start of the nba season. if a key event or sports season to which our product release schedule is tied were to be delayed or cancelled, our sales might also suffer disproportionately. our failure or inability to produce "hit" titles or introduce products on a timely basis to meet seasonal fluctuations in demand could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. the uncertainties associated with software development, manufacturing lead times, production delays and the approval process for products by hardware manufacturers and other licensors make it difficult to predict the quarter in which our products will ship and therefore may cause us to fail to meet financial expectations. 13 table of contents price protection granted to our customers and returns of our published titles by our customers may adversely affect our operating results. we are exposed to the risk of price protection and product returns with respect to our customers. our distribution arrangements with customers generally do not give them the right to return titles to us or to cancel firm orders. however, we sometimes accept product returns from our distribution customers for stock balancing and negotiate accommodations for customers, which include credits and returns, when demand for specific products falls below expectations. we grant price protection and accept returns in connection with our publishing arrangements and revenue is recognized after deducting estimated price protection and reserves for returns. while we believe that we can reliably estimate future price protection and returns, if price protection and return rates for our products exceed our reserves, our revenue could decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. increased sales of used video game products could lower our sales. certain of our larger customers sell used video games, which are generally priced lower than new video games. if our customers increase their sales of used video games, it could negatively affect our sales of new video games and have an adverse influence on our business, financial condition and operating results. a limited number of customers account for a significant portion of our sales. the loss of a principal customer or other significant business relationship could seriously hurt our business. a substantial portion of our product sales are made to a limited number of customers. sales to our five largest customers during the fiscal year ended march 31, 2016 accounted for 58.9% of our net revenue, with sony and microsoft each accounting for more than 10.0% of our net revenue during the fiscal year ended march 31, 2016. our sales are made primarily pursuant to purchase orders without long-term agreements or other commitments, and our customers may terminate their relationship with us at any time. certain of our customers may decline to carry products containing mature content. the loss of our relationships with principal customers or a decline in sales to principal customers, including as a result of a product being rated "ao" (age 18 and over) could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, if our customers are subject to pricing pressures due to deteriorating demand for our products, competitive pressure, or otherwise, such customers may pass those pricing pressures through to us, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. furthermore, our customers may also be placed into bankruptcy, become insolvent or be liquidated due to economic downturns, global contractions of credit or for other factors. bankruptcies or consolidations of certain large retail customers could seriously hurt our business, including as a result of uncollectible accounts receivable from such customers and the concentration of purchasing power among remaining large retailers. in addition, our results of operations may be adversely affected if certain of our customers who purchase on credit terms are no longer eligible to purchase on such terms due to their financial distress, which may reduce the quantity of products they demand from us. if our marketing and advertising efforts fail to resonate with consumers, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. our products are marketed worldwide through a diverse spectrum of advertising and promotional programs such as television and online advertising, social media advertising, print advertising, retail merchandising, website development and event sponsorship. our ability to sell our products and services is dependent in part on the success of these programs. if the marketing for our products and services fails to resonate with consumers, particularly during the holiday season or other key selling periods, or if 14 table of contents advertising rates or other media placement costs increase, these factors could have a material adverse influence on our business, financial condition and operating results. the interactive entertainment software industry is highly competitive. we compete for both licenses to properties and the sale of interactive entertainment software with sony and microsoft, each of which is a large developer and marketer of software for its own platforms. we also compete with game publishers, such as activision blizzard, inc. and electronic arts inc. and ubisoft entertainment s.a. as our business is dependent upon our ability to develop hit titles, which require increasing budgets for development and marketing, the availability of significant financial resources has become a major competitive factor in developing and marketing software games. some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, personnel and other resources than we do and are able to finance larger budgets for development and marketing and make higher offers to licensors and developers for commercially desirable properties. our titles also compete with other forms of entertainment, such as social media and casual games, in addition to motion pictures, television and audio and video products featuring similar themes, online computer programs and other entertainment, which may be less expensive or provide other advantages to consumers. a number of software publishers who compete with us have developed and commercialized or are currently developing online games for use by consumers over the internet. if technological advances significantly increase the availability of online games and if consumer acceptance of online gaming grows substantially, it could result in a decline in our platform-based software sales and negatively affect sales of such products. increased competition for limited shelf space and promotional support from retailers could affect the success of our business and require us to incur greater expenses to market our titles. retailers have limited shelf space and promotional resources and competition is intense among newly introduced interactive entertainment software titles for adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support. competition for retail shelf space is expected to continue to increase, which may require us to increase our marketing expenditures to maintain desirable sales levels of our titles. competitors with more extensive lines and more popular titles may have greater bargaining power with retailers. accordingly, we may not be able, or we may have to pay more than our competitors, to achieve similar levels of promotional support and shelf space. our business is partly dependent on our ability to enter into successful software development arrangements with third-parties. our success depends on our ability to continually identify and develop new titles on a timely basis. we rely on third-party software developers for the development of some of our titles. quality third-party developers are continually in high demand. software developers who have developed titles for us in the past may not be available to develop software for us in the future. due to the limited number of third-party software developers and the limited control that we exercise over them, these developers may not be able to complete titles for us on a timely basis or within acceptable quality standards, if at all. we have entered into agreements with third-parties to acquire the rights to publish and distribute interactive entertainment software as well as to use licensed intellectual properties in our titles. these agreements typically require us to make development payments, pay royalties and satisfy other conditions. our development payments may not be sufficient to permit developers to develop new software successfully, which could result in material delays and significantly increase our costs to bring particular products to market. software development costs, promotion and marketing expenses and royalties payable to software developers and third-party licensors have increased significantly in recent years and reduce potential profits derived from sales of our software. future sales of our titles may not be sufficient to recover development payments and advances to software developers and licensors, and we may not have adequate financial and other 15 table of contents resources to satisfy our contractual commitments to such developers. if we fail to satisfy our obligations under agreements with third-party developers and licensors, the agreements may be terminated or modified in ways that are burdensome to us, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we cannot publish our titles without the approval of hardware licensors that are also our competitors. we are required to obtain licenses from sony and microsoft, which are also our competitors, to develop and publish titles for their respective hardware platforms. our existing platform licenses require that we obtain approval for the publication of new titles on a title-by-title basis. as a result, the number of titles we are able to publish for these hardware platforms, our ability to manage the timing of the release of these titles and, accordingly, our net revenue from titles for these hardware platforms, may be limited. if a licensor chooses not to renew or extend our license agreement at the end of its current term, or if a licensor were to terminate our license for any reason or does not approve one or more of our titles, we may be unable to publish that title as well as additional titles for that licensor's platform. termination of any such agreements or disapproval of titles could seriously hurt our business and prospects. we may be unable to continue to enter into license agreements for certain current generation platforms on satisfactory terms or at all. failure to enter into any such agreement could also seriously hurt our business. we rely on a limited number of channel partners some of whom influence the fee structures for online distribution of our games on their platforms. we rely on a limited number of channel partners, some of whom have retained the right to change the fee structures for online distribution of both paid content and free content (including patches and corrections) that we license to them for distribution on their platforms. such channel partners' ability to set or influence royalty rates may increase costs, which could negatively affect our operating margins. we may be unable to distribute our content in a cost-effective or profitable manner through such distribution channel, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. outside of fee arrangements, our agreements with our channel partners sometimes give them significant control over other aspects of the distribution of our products and services that we develop for their platform. if our channel partners establish terms that restrict our offerings through their channels, or significantly impact the financial terms on which these products or services are offered to our customers, we may be unable to distribute our product offerings through them or be forced to do so on a materially worse financial or business terms. we may not be able to adequately adjust our cost structure in a timely fashion in response to a sudden decrease in demand. in the event of a significant decline in revenue, we may not be able to dispose of facilities, reduce personnel or make other changes to our cost structure without disruption to our operations or without significant termination and exit costs. management may not be able to implement such actions in a timely manner, if at all, to offset an immediate shortfall in revenue and profit. moreover, reducing costs may impair our ability to produce and develop software titles at sufficient levels in the future. the increasing importance of digital sales to our business exposes us to the risks of that business model, including greater competition. the proportion of our revenues derived from digital content delivery, as compared to traditional retail sales, may continue to increase. the increased importance of digital content delivery in our industry increases our potential competition, as the minimum capital needed to produce and publish a digitally delivered game is significantly less than that needed to produce and publish one that is purchased through retail distribution and is played on a game console. this will also require us to dedicate capital to 16 table of contents developing and implementing alternative marketing strategies, which we may not do successfully. if either occurs, we may be unable to effectively market and distribute our products, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, a continuing shift to digital delivery could result in a deprioritization of our products by traditional retailers. the increasing importance of digital sales to our business could also result in increasing issues with our digital distribution process, including difficulties our distributors have with collecting from consumers and any associated rebates we would owe. we use open source software in connection with certain of our games and services, which may pose particular risks to our proprietary software, products, and services in a manner that could have a negative impact on our business. we use open source software in connection with certain of our games and the services we offer. some open source software licenses require users who distribute open source software as part of their software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software or make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. the terms of various open source licenses have not been interpreted by courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our use of the open source software. were it determined that our use was not in compliance with a particular license, we may be required to release our proprietary source code, pay damages for breach of contract, re-engineer our games, discontinue distribution in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis or take other remedial action that may divert resources away from our game development efforts, any of which could harm our business. we depend on servers and internet bandwidth to operate our games and digital services with online features. if we were to lose server capacity or lack sufficient internet bandwidth for any reason, our business could suffer. we rely on data servers, including those owned or controlled by third parties, to enable our customers to download our games and other downloadable content, and to operate our online games and other products with online functionality. events such as limited hardware failure, any broad-based catastrophic server malfunction, a significant intrusion by hackers that circumvents security measures, or a failure of disaster recovery services would likely interrupt the functionality of our games with online services and could result in a loss of sales for games and related services. an extended interruption of service could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. we expect a significant portion of our games to be on-line enabled in the future, and therefore we must project our future server needs and make advance purchases of servers or server capacity to accommodate expected business demands. if we underestimate the amount of server capacity our business requires or if our business were to grow more quickly than expected, our consumers may experience service problems, such as slow or interrupted gaming access. insufficient server capacity may result in decreased sales, a loss of our consumer base and adverse consequences to our reputation. conversely, if we overestimate the amount of server capacity required by our business, we may incur additional operating costs. because of the potential importance of our online business to our revenues and results of operations, our ability to access adequate internet bandwidth and online computational resources to support our business is critical. if the price of either such resource increases, we may not be able to increase our prices or subscriber levels to compensate for such costs, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 17 table of contents we submit our products for rating by the entertainment software rating board ("esrb") in the united states and other voluntary or government ratings organizations in foreign countries. failure to obtain a target rating for certain of our products could negatively affect our ability to distribute and sell those games, as could the re-rating of a game for any reason. we voluntarily submit our game products to the esrb, a u.s.-based non-profit and independent ratings organization. the esrb system provides consumers with information about game content using a rating symbol that generally suggests the appropriate player age group and specific content descriptors, such as graphic violence, profanity or sexually explicit material. the esrb may impose significant penalties on game publishers for violations of its rules related to rating or marketing games, including revocation of a rating or monetary fines. other countries require voluntary or government backed ratings as prerequisites for product sales. in some instances, we may have to modify our products in order to market them under the target rating, which could delay or disrupt the release of our products. in addition, some of our titles may not be sold at all or without extensive edits in certain countries, such as germany. in the united states, if the esrb rates a game as "ao" (age 18 and older), platform licensors may not certify the game and retailers may refuse to sell it. in addition, some consumers have reacted to re-ratings or controversial game content by refusing to purchase such games, demanding refunds for games that they had already purchased, and refraining from buying other games published by us. many of our rockstar titles and certain of our 2k titles have been rated "m" (age 17 and older) by the esrb. if we are unable to obtain "m" ratings and instead receive "ao" ratings on future versions of those or similar titles as a result of changes in the esrb's ratings standards or for other reasons, including the adoption of legislation in this area, our business and prospects could be negatively affected. if any of our games are re-rated by the esrb or other foreign based ratings organizations, we could be exposed to litigation, administrative fines and penalties and other potential liabilities, and our operating results and financial condition could be significantly affected. we have implemented processes to comply with the requirements of the esrb and other ratings organizations and properly display the designated rating symbols and content descriptions. nonetheless, these processes are subject to human error, circumvention, overriding and reasonable resource constraints. if a video game we published were found to contain undisclosed pertinent content, the esrb could re-rate a game, retailers could refuse to sell it and demand that we accept the return of any unsold copies or returns from customers, and consumers could refuse to buy it or demand that we refund their money. this could have a material negative affect on our operating results and financial condition. in addition, we may be exposed to litigation, administrative fines and penalties and our reputation could be harmed, which could affect sales of other video games we sell. if any of these consequences were to occur, our business and financial performance could be significantly harmed. content policies adopted by retailers, consumer opposition and litigation could negatively affect sales of our products. retailers may decline to sell interactive entertainment software containing what they judge to be graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other content that they deem inappropriate for their businesses. if retailers decline to sell our products based upon their opinion that they contain objectionable themes, graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other generally objectionable content, or if any of our previously "m" rated series products are rated "ao," we might be required to significantly change or discontinue particular titles or series, which in the case of our best-selling grand theft auto titles could seriously affect our business. consumer advocacy groups have opposed sales of interactive entertainment software containing objectionable themes, violence or sexual material or other objectionable content by pressing for legislation in these areas and by engaging in public demonstrations and media campaigns. additionally, although lawsuits seeking damages for injuries allegedly suffered by third-parties as a result of video games have generally been unsuccessful in the courts, claims of this kind have been asserted against us from time to time and may be asserted and be successful in the future. 18 table of contents our results of operations or reputation may be harmed as a result of offensive consumer-created content. we are subject to risks associated with the collaborative online features in our games which allow consumers to post narrative comments, in real time, that are visible to other consumers. from time to time, objectionable and offensive consumer content may be posted to a gaming or other site with online chat features or game forums which allow consumers to post comments. we may be subject to lawsuits, governmental regulation or restrictions, and consumer backlash (including decreased sales and harmed reputation), as a result of consumers posting offensive content. we may also be subject to consumer backlash from comments made in response to postings we make on social media sites such as facebook, youtube and twitter. we are subject to risks and uncertainties of international trade, including fluctuations in the values of local foreign currencies against the dollar. sales in international markets, primarily in europe, have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenue. for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2016, 47.4% of our net revenue was earned outside the united states. we are continuing to execute on our growth initiatives in asia, where our strategy is to broaden the distribution of our existing products and expand our online gaming presence, especially in china and south korea. we are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased credit risks, tariffs and duties, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, shipping delays, and international political, regulatory and economic developments, all of which can have a significant influence on our operating results. many of our international sales are made in local currencies, which could fluctuate against the dollar. while we may use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our operating results could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. we face risks from our international operations. we are subject to certain risks because of our international operations, particularly as we continue to grow our business and presence in asia, latin america and other parts of the world. changes to and compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations may increase our cost of doing business and our inability or failure to obtain required approvals could harm our international and domestic sales. trade legislation in either the united states or other countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, import/export compliance laws or other trade laws or policies, could adversely affect our ability to sell or to distribute in international markets. we incur additional legal compliance costs associated with our international operations and could become subject to legal penalties in foreign countries if we do not comply with local laws and regulations which may be substantially different from those in the united states. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by united states laws and regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, and by local laws, such as laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials. although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, including those based in or from countries where practices which violate such laws may be customary, will not take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. if we are unable to protect the intellectual property relating to our software, the commercial value of our products will be adversely affected and our competitive position could be harmed. we develop proprietary software and have obtained the rights to publish and distribute software developed by third-parties. we attempt to protect our software and production techniques under patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as well as through contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and distribution. our software is susceptible to piracy and unauthorized copying. unauthorized third-parties 19 table of contents may be able to copy or to reverse engineer our software to obtain and use programming or production techniques that we regard as proprietary. well organized piracy operations have also proliferated in recent years, resulting in the ability to download pirated copies of our software over the internet. although we attempt to incorporate protective measures into our software, piracy of our products could negatively affect our future profitability. if we infringe on or are alleged to infringe on the intellectual property rights of third-parties, our business could be adversely affected. as our industry grows, we may be subject to an increasing amount of litigation that is common in the software industry based on allegations of infringement or other alleged violations of patent, copyright and/or trademarks. in addition, we believe that interactive entertainment software will increasingly become the subject of claims that such software infringes on the intellectual property rights of others with both the growth of online functionality and advances in technology, game content and software graphics as games become more realistic. from time to time, we receive notices from third-parties or are named in lawsuits by third-parties alleging infringement of their proprietary rights. although we believe that our software and technologies and the software and technologies of third-party developers and publishers with whom we have contractual relations do not and will not infringe or violate proprietary rights of others, it is possible that infringement of proprietary rights of others may occur. any claims of infringement, with or without merit, could be time consuming, costly and difficult to defend. moreover, intellectual property litigation or claims could require us to discontinue the distribution of products, obtain a license or redesign our products, which could result in additional substantial costs and material delays. our software is susceptible to errors, which can harm our financial results and reputation. the technological advancements of new hardware platforms result in the development of more complex software products. as software products become more complex, the risk of undetected errors in new products increases. we may need to produce and distribute patches in order to repair such errors, which could be costly and may distract our developers from working on new products. if, despite testing, errors are found in new products or releases after shipments have been made, we could experience a loss of or delay in timely market acceptance, product returns, loss of revenue, increases in costs relating to the repair of such errors and damage to our reputation. if we acquire or invest in other businesses, intellectual properties or other assets, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired and/or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for such transactions. if appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may acquire or make investments in businesses, intellectual properties and other assets that we believe are strategic. we may not be able to identify, negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment successfully. even if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a business, intellectual property or other asset, such acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including: retaining key employees and maintaining the key business and customer relationships of the businesses we acquire; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from an acquired company or business into our organization; the possibility that the combined company would not achieve the expected benefits, including any anticipated operating and product synergies, of the acquisition as quickly as anticipated or that the costs of, or operational difficulties arising from, an acquisition would be greater than anticipated; 20 table of contents significant acquisition-related accounting adjustments, particularly relating to an acquired company's deferred revenue, that may cause reported revenue and profits of the combined company to be lower than the sum of their stand-alone revenue and profits; significant accounting charges resulting from the completion and integration of a sizeable acquisition and increased capital expenditures, including potential impairment charges incurred to write down the carrying amount of intangible assets generated as a result of an acquisition; the possibility that we will not discover important facts during due diligence that could have a material adverse effect on the value of the businesses we acquire, including the possibility that a change of control of a company we acquire triggers a termination of contractual or intellectual property rights important to the operation of its business; the need to integrate an acquired company's accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management and timely reporting, and the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company in an acquired company that, prior to the acquisition, lacked these controls, procedures and policies; litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risks as a result of, an acquisition, including claims from terminated employees, customers or other third-parties; and to the extent that we engage in strategic transactions outside of the united states, we face additional risks, including risks related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. future acquisitions and investments could also involve the issuance of our equity and equity-linked securities (potentially diluting our existing stockholders), the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, write-offs of goodwill, intangibles, or acquired in-process technology, or other increased cash and non-cash expenses such as stock-based compensation. any of the foregoing factors could harm our financial condition or prevent us from achieving improvements in our financial condition and operating performance that could have otherwise been achieved by us on a stand-alone basis. our stockholders may not have the opportunity to review, vote on or evaluate future acquisitions or investments. our ability to acquire and maintain licenses to intellectual property, especially for sports titles, affects our revenue and profitability. competition for these licenses may make them more expensive and increase our costs. certain of our products are based on or incorporate intellectual property owned by others. for example, certain of our 2k products include rights licensed from major sports leagues and players' associations. similarly, some of our other titles are based on licenses of popular entertainment products. competition for these licenses is intense. if we are unable to maintain these licenses or obtain additional licenses on reasonable economic terms or with significant commercial value, our revenue and profitability could decline significantly. competition for these licenses may also increase the advances, guarantees and royalties that we must pay to the licensor, which could significantly increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability. in addition, on certain intellectual property licenses, we are subject to guaranteed minimum payments, royalties or standards of performance and may not be able to terminate these agreements prior to their stated expiration. if such licensed products do not generate revenues in excess of such minimum guarantees, our profitability will be adversely affected. we are subject to contractual covenants which place certain limitations on how we manage our business . our second amended and restated credit agreement (as amended, the "credit agreement") and the indentures governing our 1.75% convertible notes due 2016 in november 2011 (" the 1.75% convertible 21 table of contents notes") and 1.00% convertible notes due 2018 in june 2013 (the "1.00% convertible notes" and together with the 1.75% convertible notes, the "convertible notes") may limit our ability to take various actions, including incurring additional debt, paying dividends, repurchasing shares and acquiring or disposing of assets or businesses. in addition, we have granted a security interest in connection with certain compensatory arrangements which limits our ability to incur senior debt in excess of certain amounts. accordingly, we may be restricted from taking actions that management believes would be desirable and in the best interests of us and our stockholders. our credit agreement and the indentures also require us to satisfy specified financial and non-financial covenants. a breach of any of the covenants contained in our credit agreement could result in an event of default under the agreement and under the indentures governing our convertible notes and would allow our lenders and noteholders to pursue various remedies, including accelerating the repayment of any outstanding indebtedness. our business and products are subject to potential legislation. the adoption of such proposed legislation could limit the retail market for our products. several proposals have been made for federal legislation to regulate our industry. such proposals seek to prohibit the sale of products containing certain content included in some of our games. if any such proposals are enacted into law, it may limit the potential market for some of our games in the united states, and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. other countries, such as germany, have adopted laws regulating content both in packaged games and those transmitted over the internet that are stricter than current united states laws. in the united states, proposals have also been made by numerous state legislators to regulate and prohibit the sale of interactive entertainment software products containing certain types of violent or sexual content to under 17 or 18 audiences, such as the state of california's "ultraviolent video games law" that sought to ban the sale or rental of violent video games to minors. while such legislation to date has been enjoined by industry and retail groups or been found unconstitutional, the adoption into law of such legislation in federal and/or in state jurisdictions in which we do significant business could severely limit the retail market for some of our games. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill becomes impaired. we are required under u.s. generally accepted accounting principles to review our goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating a requirement to reevaluate whether our goodwill continues to be recoverable, include a significant decline in stock price and market capitalization, slower growth rates in our industry or other materially adverse events. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill is determined. this may adversely affect our operating results. our reported financial results could be adversely affected by the application of existing or future accounting standards to our business as it evolves. our reported financial results are affected by the accounting policies promulgated by the sec and national accounting standards bodies and the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies. for example, standards regarding revenue recognition have and could further significantly affect the way we account for revenue related to our products and services. we expect that an increasing number of our games will be online-enabled in the future and that we could be required to recognize the related revenues over a period of time rather than at the time of sale. further, as we increase our downloadable content and add new features to our online services, our estimate of the service period may change and we could be required to recognize revenues, and defer related costs, over a shorter or longer period of time than we initially allocated. as we enhance, expand and diversify our business and product offerings, the application of existing or future financial accounting standards, particularly those 22 table of contents relating to the way we account for revenue, could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results although not necessarily on our cash flows. risks relating to our common stock for purposes of this section "risks relating to our common stock," references to "the company," "we," "our," and "us" refer only to take-two interactive software, inc. and not to its subsidiaries. additional issuances or sales of equity securities by us would dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. we may issue equity or equity-based securities (such as our convertible notes) in the future in connection with acquisitions or strategic transactions, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, including through repayment of outstanding debt, to fund expansion of our operations or for other purposes. to the extent we issue additional equity securities, including upon conversion of our outstanding convertible notes, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders would be reduced. the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect its price. the sale or the availability for sale of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause the price of our common stock to decline. the issuance of shares of our common stock upon conversion of our convertible notes could also adversely affect the price of our common stock. there is no guarantee that we will do additional share repurchases in the future. the share repurchase program authorized by the board of directors, which authorized the repurchase of up to 14,217,683 shares of our common stock and had 9,046,353 shares available for repurchase as of march 31, 2016, does not obligate the company to make any purchases at any specific time or situation. discontinuing repurchases could adversely affect the price of the company's common stock. the program may be suspended or discontinued at any time for any reason. our stock price has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate significantly. the market price of our common stock historically has been, and we expect will continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations. these fluctuations may be due to factors specific to us including those discussed in the risk factors in this section as well as others not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material, to changes in securities analysts' earnings estimates or ratings, to our results or future financial guidance falling below our expectations and analysts' and investors' expectations, to factors affecting the computer, software, entertainment, media or electronics industries, or to national or international economic conditions. stock markets, in general, have experienced over the years, and continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected market prices for companies such as ours and that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. delaware law, our charter documents and provisions of our debt agreements may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline. we are a delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third-party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. our board of directors has the power, without stockholder approval, to adopt a stockholder rights plan and/or to designate the terms of one or more series of preferred stock and issue shares of preferred stock. in addition, we may under certain circumstances involving a change of control, be obligated to repurchase all or a portion of our convertible notes and any 23 table of contents potential acquirer would be required to assume our obligations related to any outstanding convertible notes. we or any possible acquirer may not have available financial resources necessary to repurchase those notes. the ability of our board of directors to create and issue a new series of preferred stock and certain provisions of delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the indenture governing our notes could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market price of our common stock and the value of any outstanding notes. our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to reduce future years' taxes could be substantially limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in the internal revenue code. section 382 of the internal revenue code contains rules that limit the ability of a company to use its net operating loss carryforwards in years after an ownership change, which is generally defined as any change in ownership of more than 50% of its stock over a three-year testing period. these rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes among stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of the stock of a company and/or any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by the company. if, as a result of future transactions involving our common stock, including purchases or sales of stock by 5% stockholders, we undergo cumulative ownership changes which exceed 50% over the testing period, our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards would be subject to additional limitations under section 382. generally, if an ownership change occurs, the annual taxable income limitation on the use of net operating loss carryforwards is equal to the product of the applicable long-term tax exempt rate and the value of the company's stock immediately before the ownership change. depending on the resulting limitation, a portion of our net operating loss carryforwards could expire before we would be able to use them. our inability to fully utilize our net operating losses to offset taxable income generated in the future could have a material and negative affect on our future financial position and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 54 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential loss arising from fluctuations in market rates and prices. our market risk exposures primarily include fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rate risk our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates relates primarily to our short-term investment portfolio and variable rate debt under the credit agreement. we seek to manage our interest rate risk by maintaining a short-term investment portfolio that includes corporate bonds with high credit quality and maturities less than two years. since short-term investments mature relatively quickly and can be reinvested at the then-current market rates, interest income on a portfolio consisting of short-term securities is more subject to market fluctuations than a portfolio of longer term maturities. however, the fair value of a short-term portfolio is less sensitive to market fluctuations than a portfolio of longer term securities. we do not currently use derivative financial instruments in our short-term investment portfolio. our investments are held for purposes other than trading. 54 table of contents as of march 31, 2016, we had $470.8 million of short-term investments which included $205.3 million of available-for-sale securities. the available-for-sale securities were recorded at fair market value with unrealized gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, in stockholders' equity. we also had $798.7 million of cash and cash equivalents that are comprised primarily of money market funds and bank-time deposits. we determined that, based on the composition of our investment portfolio, there was no material interest rate risk exposure to our consolidated financial statements or liquidity as of march 31, 2016. historically, fluctuations in interest rates have not had a significant effect on our operating results. under our credit agreement, outstanding balances bear interest at our election of (a) 0.25% to 0.75% above a certain base rate (3.75% at march 31, 2016), or (b) 1.25% to 1.75% above the libor rate (approximately 1.68% at march 31, 2016), with the margin rate subject to the achievement of certain average liquidity levels. changes in market rates may affect our future interest expense if there is an outstanding balance on our line of credit. at march 31, 2016, there were no outstanding borrowings under our credit agreement. the 1.75% convertible notes and the 1.00% convertible notes pay interest semi-annually at a fixed rate of 1.75% and 1.00%, respectively, per annum and we expect that there will be no fluctuation related to the convertible notes affecting our cash component of interest expense. for additional details on our convertible notes see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. foreign currency exchange rate risk we transact business in foreign currencies and are exposed to risks resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. accounts relating to foreign operations are translated into united states dollars using prevailing exchange rates at the relevant period end. translation adjustments are included as a separate component of stockholders' equity. for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2016 and 2015, our foreign currency translation adjustment loss was $7.4 million and $32.7 million, respectively. we recognized a foreign currency exchange transaction loss of $1.4 million and $2.1 million for the fiscal years ended march 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and a foreign currency exchange transaction gain of $0.2 million for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2014, in interest and other, net in our consolidated statements of operations. balance sheet hedging activities we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with non-functional currency denominated cash balances and inter-company funding loans, non-functional currency denominated accounts receivable and non-functional currency denominated accounts payable. these transactions are not designated as hedging instruments and are accounted for as derivatives whereby the fair value of the contracts is reported as either assets or liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, and gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair value are reported in interest and other, net, in our consolidated statements of operations. we do not enter into derivative financial contracts for speculative or trading purposes. at march 31, 2016, we had $2.4 million of forward contracts outstanding to buy foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars and $54.5 million of forward contracts outstanding to sell foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars all of which have maturities of less than one year. at march 31, 2015, we had $4.1 million of forward contracts outstanding to buy foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars and $72.5 million of forward contracts outstanding to sell foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars all of which have maturities of less than one year. for the fiscal years ended march 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, we recorded gains of $0.1 million and $18.5 million and a loss of $18.4 million, respectively, related to foreign currency forward contracts in interest and other, net on the consolidated statements of operations. as of march 31, 2016 the fair value of these outstanding forward contracts was a loss of $0.1 million and is included in accrued and other current liabilities. as of march 31, 2015 the fair value of these outstanding forward contracts was $0.6 million and is included in prepaid expenses and 55 table of contents other. the fair value of these outstanding forward contracts is estimated based on the prevailing exchange rates of the various hedged currencies as of the end of the period. our hedging programs are designed to reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the effect of currency exchange rate movements. we believe the counterparties to these foreign currency forward contracts are creditworthy multinational commercial banks and that the risk of counterparty nonperformance is not material. notwithstanding our efforts to mitigate some foreign currency exchange rate risks, there can be no assurance that our hedging activities will adequately protect us against the risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations. for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2016, 47.4% of our revenue was generated outside the united states. using sensitivity analysis, a hypothetical 10% increase in the value of the u.s. dollar against all currencies would decrease revenues by 4.7%, while a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of the u.s. dollar against all currencies would increase revenues by 4.7%. in the opinion of management, a substantial portion of this fluctuation would be offset by cost of goods sold and operating expenses incurred in local currency.risk factors 19 - risk factors for further discussion of the transition to next-generation hardware platforms and the impact on our business. the entertainment software rating board ( esrb ), through its ratings system, requires game publishers to provide consumers with information relating to video game content, including graphic violence, profanity or sexually explicit material contained in software titles. consumer advocacy groups have opposed sales of interactive entertainment software containing graphic violence or sexually explicit material by pressing for legislation in these areas and by engaging in public demonstrations and media campaigns, and various governmental bodies have proposed regulation aimed at our industry to prohibit the sale to minors of software containing such material. additionally, retailers may decline to sell interactive entertainment software containing graphic violence or sexually explicit material that they deem inappropriate for their businesses. some of our titles have received an m rating (age 17 and over). if retailers decline to sell our m rated products or if our products are rated ao (age 18 and over), we might be required to significantly change or discontinue particular titles, which in the case of our best selling grand theft auto titles could seriously hurt our business. see item 1a risk factors. 10 we anticipate an expanding market for interactive entertainment software as more powerful computing capabilities, increasingly realistic graphics, backwards compatibility of software, broadband connectivity, greater online functionality, online marketplace opportunities and expanded artificial intelligence capabilities of new platforms create new consumer awareness and demand for this compelling entertainment medium. software content and licensing we have established a portfolio of successful proprietary software content. we own all of the intellectual property rights associated with the following brands: grand theft auto, midnight club, bully, rockstar games presents table tennis, sid meier civilization, sid meier railroads!, sid meier pirates, manhunt, red dead revolver, max payne, smuggler run, spec ops, bioshock, top spin, amped, links, railroad tycoon and xcom. we believe that content ownership facilitates our internal product development efforts and maximizes profit potential. in 2006 we renewed our licensing relationship with the national hockey league (nhl) and the national hockey league players association (nhlpa). we also entered into an agreement to publish and distribute a video game based on the columbia pictures film ghost rider on multiple platforms. in 2005 we acquired rights to other popular entertainment properties and sports licenses, including long-term, third-party exclusive licensing relationships with major league baseball properties (mlbp), the major league baseball players association (mlbpa) and major league baseball advanced media (mlbam) and a non-exclusive long-term licensing relationship with the national basketball association (nba). our agreements with licensors grant us intellectual property rights and require us to make significant license payments. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contractual obligations and contingent liabilities and commitments. intellectual property we develop proprietary software titles and have obtained the rights to publish and distribute software titles developed by third parties. we attempt to protect our software and production techniques under copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as well as through contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and distribution. although we generally do not hold any patents, we obtain trademark and copyright registrations for our products. interactive entertainment software is susceptible to piracy and unauthorized copying. unauthorized third parties may be able to copy or to reverse engineer our titles to obtain and use programming or production techniques that we regard as proprietary. well organized piracy operations have proliferated in recent years, resulting in the ability to download pirated copies of software over the internet. although we attempt to incorporate protective measures into our software, piracy of our products could negatively impact our future profitability. see item 1a. - risk factors. as the amount of interactive entertainment software in the market increases and the functionality of this software further overlaps, we believe that interactive entertainment software will increasingly become the subject of claims that such software infringes the copyrights or patents of others. from time to time, we receive notices from third parties or are named in lawsuits by third parties alleging infringement of their proprietary rights. although we believe that our titles and the titles and technologies of third-party developers and publishers with whom we have contractual relationships do not and will not infringe or violate proprietary rights of others, it is possible that infringement of proprietary rights of others may occur. any claims of infringement, with or without merit, could be time consuming, costly and difficult to defend. see item 1a. - risk factors, 11 software development rockstar. we develop most of our software titles for our rockstar label through our internal development studios: rockstar north, the developer of grand theft auto and manhunt ; rockstar san diego, the developer of midnight club, rockstar games presents table tennis, smuggler run and red dead revolver ; rockstar toronto, the developer of the warriors for playstation 2 and xbox, as well as the playstation 2 version of max payne ; rockstar vancouver, the developer of bully ; and rockstar leeds, the developer of the psp versions of grand theft auto: liberty city stories, grand theft auto: vice city stories; midnight club 3: dub edition, and the warriors . rockstar also announced an arrangement with team bondi pty ltd to develop l.a. noire , a crime thriller for next-generation systems. 2k games. while many of our 2k games titles are developed by third-party developers, we also develop software titles for our 2k games label through our internal development studios: irrational studios, acquired in fiscal 2005, the developer of the third-party titles system shock 2, swat 4 , freedom force and the upcoming proprietary title bioshock; and firaxis, the developer of sid meier railroads!, sid meier pirates!, and sid meier civilization . 2k sports. in fiscal 2006, 2k sports continued to expand its internal development studios . visual concepts entertainment and kush games, which we acquired in fiscal 2005, continue to develop the majority of our sports titles, including the major league baseball 2k series, nba 2k series, nhl 2k series and college hoops 2k series. pam developments, which was also acquired in fiscal 2005, develops our top spin tennis series. global star software. while the majority of our global star titles are developed by third-party developers, we also develop software titles for our global star label through our internal development studio cat daddy games, the developer of mall tycoon 3 and deal or no deal . research and development. as of october 31, 2006, we had a research and development staff of 1,214 employees with the technical capabilities to develop and localize software titles for all major current and next-generation console and handheld hardware platforms and the pc in all major territories. localization involves translating game text into foreign languages and making other changes appropriate to territory. external product development. certain of our titles are developed by third parties. agreements with developers generally give us exclusive publishing and marketing rights and require us to make advance royalty payments, pay royalties based on product sales and satisfy other conditions. royalty advances for software titles are typically recoupable against royalties otherwise due to developers. our agreements with developers generally provide us with the right to monitor development efforts and to cease making advance payments if specified development milestones are not satisfied. we monitor the level of advances in light of expected sales for the related titles and write off unrecoverable advances to cost of sales in the period in which we determine the advance will not be fully recovered. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contractual obligations and contingent liabilities and commitments. the development cycle for new console, handheld and pc titles generally ranges from 12 to more than 36 months. although we often simultaneously develop our software for multiple platforms, in certain cases it can take nine to 12 months to adapt a product for additional hardware platforms after initial development for one platform is completed. the cost to develop a frontline software product generally ranges from $5 million to $20 million. we expect that development costs will continue to increase for next-generation platforms. arrangements with platform manufacturers we have entered into license agreements with sony, microsoft and nintendo to develop and publish software in north america and europe for the playstation, playstation 2, psp, xbox, xbox 360, nintendo 12 gamecube and game boy advance. we are not required to obtain any licenses to develop titles for the pc. sony. in may 2000, we entered into a licensed publisher agreement with sony computer entertainment america, inc. under the terms of the agreement, sony granted us the right and license to develop, market, publish and distribute software titles for the playstation 2 in north america. the agreement requires us to submit products to sony for its approval. the agreement provides for sony to be the exclusive manufacturer of our products for the playstation 2 and for us to pay royalties to sony based on the number of units manufactured. the agreement with sony is automatically renewable for successive one-year terms, unless terminated by sony in the event of a breach by us or our bankruptcy or insolvency. sony may also terminate the agreement on a title-by-title basis. upon expiration or termination of this agreement, we have certain rights to sell off existing inventories. we also entered into a similar agreement with sony for the playstation 2 covering european territories and australia. in september 2004, we entered into a three-year agreement with sony pursuant to which sony granted us the right and license to develop, market, publish and distribute software titles for the psp in north america. we also signed a similar agreement with sony for the psp covering european territories and australia. we entered into a four-year licensed publisher agreement with sony in april 2004 under which sony granted us the right and license to develop, market, publish and distribute software titles for the playstation in north america. we also entered into a similar agreement with sony for playstation covering european territories and australia. we expect to enter into a platform license with sony for the playstation 3. microsoft. in november 2005, we entered into a three-year publisher license agreement with microsoft whereby microsoft granted us the right and license to develop, market, publish and distribute software titles for microsoft xbox 360 in territories to be determined on a title-by-title basis. the agreement requires us to submit products to microsoft for approval and for us to make royalty payments to microsoft based on the number of units manufactured. in addition, products are required to be manufactured by microsoft approved manufacturers. the agreement, which expires on november 22, 2008, is automatically renewable for successive one-year terms, unless either party gives the other prior notice of non-renewal. the agreement may be terminated by either party in the event of a material breach. microsoft also has the right to terminate on a title-by-title basis. upon expiration or termination of the agreement, we have certain rights to sell off existing inventories. we also have a similar agreement in place with microsoft for game development and distribution on its previous generation xbox system. in may 2006, we announced that we would launch grand theft auto iv on the xbox 360 and playstation 3 platforms in october 2007. in addition, our rockstar subsidiary and microsoft announced that rockstar will offer exclusive episodic content for grand theft auto iv on xbox live , microsoft online entertainment and gaming network. the digitally delivered episodic content will be available for purchase by xbox live subscribers, allowing them to expand their grand theft auto iv gameplay experience. nintendo. we entered into a confidential license agreement with nintendo that expires in december 2007. under the agreement, nintendo granted us the right and license to develop, market, publish and distribute software for nintendo gamecube in the western hemisphere. the agreement requires us to submit products to nintendo for its approval. the agreement also provides for nintendo to be the exclusive manufacturer of our products and for us to make royalty payments to nintendo based on the number of units manufactured. the agreement may be terminated by either party in the event of a breach and may be terminated by nintendo in the event of our bankruptcy. upon termination of all of our agreements with nintendo, we have certain rights to sell off existing inventories. we also entered into a similar three-year agreement with nintendo for gamecube covering european territories. 13 we also entered into an agreement with nintendo that expires in july 2007, granting us the right and license to develop software for nintendo game boy advance in the western hemisphere. we entered into a similar agreement with nintendo for european territories. we expect to enter into a platform license with nintendo for wii and ds. manufacturing sony and nintendo are the sole manufacturers of software products sold for use on their respective hardware platforms. we begin the manufacturing process for our published titles by placing a purchase order for the manufacture of our products with sony or nintendo and utilizing our line of credit with the manufacturer. we then send software code and a prototype of the product to the manufacturer, together with related artwork, user instructions, warranty information, brochures and packaging designs for approval, defect testing and manufacture. games manufactured by sony and nintendo are generally shipped within two weeks of receipt of our manufacturing order. the same procedure applies to games for the xbox and xbox 360, although xbox and xbox 360 games must be manufactured by manufacturers pre-approved by microsoft. production of pc software includes cd-rom pressing, assembly of components, printing of packaging and user manuals and shipping of finished goods, which is performed by third-party vendors in accordance with our specifications, and, to a limited extent, by us. we believe that there are alternative sources for these services that could be obtained without delay. we send software code and a prototype of a title, together with related artwork, user instructions, warranty information, brochures and packaging designs to the manufacturers. games are generally shipped within two weeks of receipt of our manufacturing order. to date, we have not experienced any material difficulties or delays in the manufacture of our titles or material delays due to manufacturing defects. our software titles carry a 90-day limited warranty. sales and marketing we sell software titles to retail outlets in north america and europe through direct relationships with large retail customers and third-party distributors. our customers in north america include best buy, blockbuster, circuit city, gamestop, target, toys r us, wal-mart and other leading mass merchandisers; video, electronic and toy stores; national and regional drug stores; supermarket and discount store chains; and specialty retailers. our european customers include carrefour, dixons, karstadt, and media saturn. we have sales and marketing operations in australia, austria, canada, china france, germany, the netherlands, italy, new zealand, spain, switzerland, japan and the united kingdom. sales to our five largest customers in fiscal 2006 accounted for approximately 49.4% of our revenue, with wal-mart, gamestop and best buy accounting for 15.4%, 12.6% and 10.2%, respectively, of our net revenue. no other customer accounted for more than 10.0% of our revenue for this year. our marketing and promotional efforts are intended to maximize exposure and broaden distribution of our titles, promote brand name recognition, assist retailers and properly position, package and merchandise our titles. we market titles by implementing public relations campaigns, using print and online advertising, television, radio spots and outdoor advertising. we believe that we label and market our products in accordance with esrb principles and guidelines. we continue to actively pursue relationships with participants in the music and entertainment industries. we believe that the shared demographics between various media and some of the software titles marketed by our publishing labels provide excellent cross-promotional opportunities. we continue to work with popular recording artists to create sophisticated game soundtracks, enter into agreements to license high-profile names and likenesses, and make arrangements for co-branding opportunities. 14 we have numerous titles that have been designated sony greatest hits program for playstation 2 and psp, and microsoft platinum hits program titles for xbox. to qualify for these programs under our agreements with hardware manufacturers, our products had to satisfy certain shelf life and sales requirements. in connection with these programs, we receive manufacturing discounts from sony and microsoft. nintendo has also established a player choice program for the wii and gamecube. we seek to stimulate continued sales and maximize profit potential by reducing the wholesale prices of our products to retailers at various times during the life of a product. price concessions may occur at any time in a product life cycle, but typically occur six to nine months after a product initial launch. in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, price concessions to retailers amounted to $73.9 million, $30.4 million and $52.8 million, respectively, and are often related to products designated as a greatest or platinum hits program title offered by sony and microsoft. in certain international markets, we provide volume rebates to stimulate continued product sales. we also employ various other marketing methods designed to promote consumer awareness, including in-store promotions and point-of-purchase displays, direct mail, co-operative advertising, as well as attendance at trade shows. we employ separate sales forces for our publishing and distribution operations. as of october 31, 2006, we had a sales and marketing staff of 256. distribution we distribute our own titles as well as third-party software, hardware and accessories in north america through our jack of all games subsidiary. we distribute three major categories of third-party console, handheld and pc products, consisting principally of newly released and popular software titles, budget and catalog software titles, and hardware. we procure products from suppliers principally using standard purchase orders based on our assessment of market demand, as well as pre-orders from retailers. we periodically enter into agreements with our suppliers that provide exclusive distribution rights to certain products. we carry inventory quantities that we believe are necessary to provide rapid response to retailer orders. we utilize electronic data interchange with many of our retailers to enhance the efficiency of placing and shipping orders and receiving payments. our jack of all games subsidiary maintains warehouse facilities and sales offices in ohio and ontario, canada. products arrive at our warehouses to be picked, packed and shipped to customers. we generally ship products by common carrier. backlog is not material to our business as we generally ship products within seven days of receipt of orders. competition in our publishing business, we compete both for licenses to properties and the sale of interactive entertainment software with sony, microsoft and nintendo, each of which is a large developer and marketer of software for its own platforms. each of these competitors has the financial resources to withstand significant price competition and to implement extensive advertising campaigns, particularly with prime-time television spots. these companies may also increase their own software development efforts. on certain occasions, we have been able to negotiate marketing reimbursements from the console manufacturers, which has allowed us to increase marketing exposure for certain of our titles. we also compete with domestic companies such as electronic arts, activision, thq, midway games and atari and international companies such as sega, vivendi, ubisoft, sci entertainment, capcom, konami and namco-bandai. competition in the entertainment software industry is based on product quality and features, brand name recognition, access to distribution channels, price and effectiveness of marketing. our business is also driven by hit titles, which require increasing budgets for development and marketing. the availability of significant financial resources has become a major competitive factor in developing and 15 marketing software games. some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, personnel and other resources than we do, and are able to finance larger budgets for development and marketing and make higher offers to licensors and developers for commercially desirable intellectual properties. retailers have limited shelf space and promotional resources, and competition is intense among an increasing number of newly introduced entertainment software titles and hardware for adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support. competition for retail shelf space is expected to increase, which may require us to increase our marketing expenditures to maintain current sales levels of our titles. competitors with more extensive product lines and popular titles may have greater bargaining power with retailers. accordingly, we may not be able to achieve the levels of support and shelf space that such competitors receive. similarly, as competition for popular properties increases, our cost of acquiring licenses for such properties is likely to increase, resulting in reduced margins. prolonged price competition, increased licensing costs or reduced operating margins would cause our profits to decrease significantly. competition for our titles is influenced by the timing of competitive product releases and the similarity of such products to our titles and may result in loss of shelf space or a reduction in sell-through of our titles at retail stores. our titles also compete with other forms of entertainment such as motion pictures, television and audio and video products featuring similar themes, online computer programs and other forms of entertainment which may be less expensive or provide other advantages to consumers. as the installed base of console and handheld platforms has increased and as new console and handheld platforms have been introduced, a growing market for used video games has emerged. we and other software developers have produced a wide variety of software titles, and to the extent that original purchasers have made titles available in second-hand markets, consumers have increasingly opted to purchase used video games rather than pay full retail price for new games. competition from this secondary market most impacts our older software titles and titles we have published for past hardware platforms. in our distribution business, we compete with large national companies as well as smaller regional distributors. we also compete with the efforts of the major entertainment software companies that distribute directly to retailers or over the internet. some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, personnel and other resources than we do, and are able to carry larger inventories, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, and provide more comprehensive product selection than we can. international operations sales in international markets, principally in the united kingdom and other countries in europe, have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenue. for fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, approximately 39.4%, 39.8% and 36.8%, respectively, of our net revenue was earned outside the united states. we are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased credit risks, tariffs and duties, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, shipping delays and international political, regulatory and economic developments, all of which can have a significant impact on our operating results. see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. segment information see note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for more information regarding our reportable segments. employees as of october 31, 2006, we had approximately 2,020 full-time employees. none of our employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. we consider our relations with employees to be satisfactory. 16 executive officers and directors the company executive officers and directors as of january 1, 2007 are as follows: name age position paul eibeler 51 chief executive officer and president and director karl h. winters 47 chief financial officer samuel a. judd 49 senior vice president, planning and administration grover c. brown, esq. 71 director todd emmel 43 director robert flug 59 director oliver r. grace, jr. 52 director john f. levy 51 director mark lewis 57 director michael j. malone 62 director steven tisch 57 director paul eibeler has been chief executive officer of the company since january 2005 and president and a director of the company since april 2004. mr. eibeler was also president of the company from july 2000 to june 2003 and a director from december 2000 to february 2003. prior to that time, mr. eibeler was a consultant for microsoft xbox launch team. from july 2003 to october 2003, mr. eibeler was president and chief operating officer of acclaim entertainment north america division, a company engaged in publishing video games and, from 1998 to 1999, mr. eibeler served as acclaim north america executive vice-president and general manager. acclaim filed a petition under chapter 7 of the federal bankruptcy code in september 2004. during the seven years prior to 1998, mr. eibeler held various executive positions with impact, inc., a leading supplier of licensed toys and school supplies. mr. eibeler received a b.a. from loyola college. karl h. winters has been chief financial officer of the company since february 2002. from april 2000 to june 2001, mr. winters was the chief financial officer of modelwire, inc., a company engaged in marketing imaging database products. from 1993 to 1999, mr. winters served in various positions, most recently as vice president of trace international holdings, inc., a private holding company that held significant interests in united auto group, inc., a consolidator of new car dealerships, and foamex international inc., a manufacturer of polyurethane products. during such period, mr. winters also held executive positions at united auto and foamex, most recently as united auto chief financial officer and executive vice president. from 1983 to 1993, mr. winters was a senior audit manager for coopers &amp; lybrand. mr. winters is a c.p.a. and received an m.b.a. from the university of michigan and a b.a. in business economics with a concentration in accounting from calvin college. samuel a. judd has been senior vice president of planning and administration of the company since july 2004. prior to joining the company mr. judd served as chief financial officer and senior vice president of operations at the simon &amp; schuster division of viacom, inc. mr. judd received his b.a. in economics from cornell university and an m.b.a. from the university of pennsylvania wharton school of business. grover c. brown, esq. has been a director of the company since march 2006 and chairman of its corporate governance committee since december 2006. mr. brown, a former judge, has been special counsel at the law firm of gordon, fournaris &amp; mammarella, p.a. since march 2000. previously, mr. brown was a partner at the law firm of morris, james, hitchens &amp; williams from 1985 to 2000. mr. brown served as chancellor and vice chancellor of the delaware court of chancery from 1973 until 1985 and was a family court judge for the state of delaware prior to that time. mr. brown is admitted to practice before the federal district courts in delaware and the district of columbia, and the united 17 states court of appeals for the third circuit. mr. brown is a director of cablevision systems corporation, a publicly traded leading media, entertainment and telecommunications company. he received his law degree from the george washington university and is a member of the american bar and delaware bar associations. todd emmel has been a director of the company since february 2002 and was interim chairman of the company audit committee from january 2006 until march 2006. mr. emmel served as chairman of the company audit committee from april 2004 to july 2004. since august 2003, mr. emmel has served as director, structured products for john hancock financial services, a financial and insurance services company. from november 1999 until june 2002, mr. emmel was a first vice president at ambac assurance corporation, a financial insurance company. mr. emmel received an m.b.a. from carnegie mellon university and a b.s. in accounting from miami university. robert flug has been a director of the company since february 1998 and interim non-executive chairman of the company board of directors since january 2006. since september 1987, mr. flug has held various executive positions with s.l. danielle survivor (formerly s.l. danielle), a women apparel company, most recently as president and chief executive officer. mr. flug received a b.s. in business administration from new york university. oliver r. grace, jr. has been a director of the company since april 1997. since 1990, mr. grace, a private investor, has been the chairman of the board of moscow cablecom corp. (formerly known as anderson group, inc.), which provides broadband cable services to the city of moscow. mr. grace is a general partner of anglo american security fund, l.p., a private investment fund. mr. grace received a b.a. in business administration from vanderbilt university. john f. levy has been a director of the company and chairman of its audit committee and compensation committee since march 2006 and december 2006, respectively. since may 2005, mr. levy has served as the chief executive officer of board advisory services, a consulting firm which advises public companies in the areas of corporate governance, corporate compliance, financial reporting and financial strategies. from november 1997 to august 2004, mr. levy served as chief financial officer of mediabay, inc., a nasdaq company and leading provider of premium spoken word audio content. while at mediabay, he also served for a period as its vice chairman. mr. levy is a certified public accountant with nine years experience with the national public accounting firms of ernst &amp; young, laventhol &amp; horwath and grant thornton. mr. levy is a director and chairman of the audit committee of gilman+cioccia, inc., a publicly traded company which provides tax preparation and financial planning services to individuals. mr. levy has a b.s. degree in economics from the wharton school of the university of pennsylvania and received his m.b.a. from st. joseph university in philadelphia. mark lewis has been a director of the company since may 2001. for the fifteen years prior to february 2001, mr. lewis held various positions with electronic arts, inc., a company engaged in publishing video games, most recently as senior vice president of international operations. mr. lewis has been a director of muse communications corp., a broadband technology company, since november 1997. mr. lewis received a b.a. in english and graduated cum laude from yale university. michael j. malone has been a director of the company since january 2006. from may 2001 through february 2005, mr. malone served as non-executive chairman of maxide acquisition, inc., a holding company for dmx music, inc. (formerly aei music network, inc.), a supplier of music services that he founded in 1971. in february 2005, maxide acquisition, inc. filed for chapter 11 protection with the u.s. bankruptcy court for the district of delaware. from 2001 through 2004, mr. malone served as non-executive chairman of dmx music, and from 1971 through 2001, mr. malone served as chief executive officer and non-executive chairman of aei music network, inc. from 1995 through 2005, mr. malone served as chairman of mtm management, a national hotel management company. since 1985, mr. malone has served as chairman of erin air, inc., a national jet charter company based in seattle. 18 since 1999, mr. malone has served on the board of directors and audit committee of expeditors international of washington, inc., a publicly traded global logistics services company. mr. malone received a b.a. in business administration from the university of washington. steven tisch has been a director of the company since april 2002. since 1986, mr. tisch has been an independent motion picture producer. mr. tisch is the oscar award winning producer of forrest gump, the 1994 winner for best picture. since may 2000, mr. tisch has been a partner of escape artists, a private independent film company, and a director of classic media, an owner of franchise entertainment properties. since june 2002, mr. tisch has been a director of film roman, inc., a publicly traded television and motion picture production company. from 1976 to 1986, mr. tisch was a principal of tisch/avnet productions, a production company with credits such as risky business. mr. tisch is a member of the board of directors of the tisch school of the arts at new york university and the geffen theatre in los angeles. mr. tisch received a b.a. in sociology from tufts university. item 1a. risk factors our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. because of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other factors affecting our operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance and our business and financial performance could be harmed and the market value of our securities could decline. the matters relating to the investigation by the special committee of our board of directors and the restatement of our consolidated financial statements may result in additional sec inquiries, litigation and governmental enforcement actions. in june 2006, our board of directors directed a special committee consisting of three independent members of the board of directors to conduct an independent investigation relating to our past stock option grants. the special committee was assisted in the investigation by outside independent legal counsel and independent accountants. on december 11, 2006, we announced that the special committee preliminarily found that there were improprieties in the process of granting and documenting stock options and that incorrect measurement dates for certain stock option grants were used for financial accounting purposes. as described in the explanatory note immediately preceding part i, item 1, and in note 2 restatement of consolidated financial statements in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k, as a result of the internal review and independent investigation, management has concluded, and the audit committee agrees, that incorrect measurement dates were used for financial accounting purposes for stock-based compensation awards made in certain prior periods. as a result, we have recorded additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense, and related tax effects, with regard to certain past stock-based awards, and we have restated certain previously filed financial statements included in this form 10-k. the internal review, the independent investigation, and related activities have required us to incur substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services, have diverted management attention from our business, and could in the future harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. while we believe that we have made appropriate judgments in determining the correct measurement dates for our stock-based compensation awards, the sec may disagree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported the financial impact. accordingly, there is a risk that we may have to further restate our prior financial statements, amend prior filings with the sec, or take other actions not currently contemplated. 19 our past stock option granting practices and the restatement of prior financial statements have exposed us to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. as described in part i, item 3, legal proceedings , several derivative complaints and a class action complaint have been filed in state and federal courts against our directors and certain of our executive officers pertaining to, among other things, allegations relating to stock option grants. in addition, we have responded to the previously disclosed subpoenas and informal requests for documents and additional information from these agencies. we intend to continue to fully cooperate with these investigations. no assurance can be given regarding the outcomes from litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions relating to our past stock compensation practices. the resolution of these matters will be time consuming, expensive, and will distract management from the conduct of our business. furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions, we could be required to pay damages, fines or penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in august 2006, we received a nasdaq staff determination letter stating that, as a result of the delayed filing of our form 10-q for the quarter ended july 31, 2006 (the third quarter form 10-q ), we were not in compliance with the filing requirements for continued listing as set forth in marketplace rule 4310(c)(14) and were therefore subject to delisting from the nasdaq stock market. on december 29, 2006, the nasdaq listing qualifications panel granted our request for continued listing, subject to our filing of the third quarter form 10-q, and any required restatements, with the sec by march 19, 2007, holding our combined 2005 and 2006 annual meeting by march 27, 2006 and providing certain information regarding the special committee independent investigation to nasdaq by on or about january 15, 2007, which we have provided. we anticipate filing our third quarter form 10-q with the sec promptly following the filing of this form 10-k. we anticipate holding our annual meeting on or about march 23, 2007. we believe that when we hold our combined 2005 and 2006 annual meeting, we will have remedied our non-compliance with marketplace rule 4310(c)(14) and other applicable marketplace rules, subject to nasdaq affirmative completion of our compliance protocols. however, if the sec disagrees with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial impact of past stock-based compensation awards, there could be further delays in filing subsequent sec reports that might result in delisting of our common stock from the nasdaq stock market. we have incurred significant losses for the year ended october 31, 2006, and we may incur future losses. although we achieved increasing levels of revenue and generated profits in each of the years ended october 31, 2002 through 2005, we incurred a significant loss for the year ended october 31, 2006. we expect to incur increased levels of expenses associated with significant product development and licensing commitments over the next year in connection with the diversification of our product offerings and the transition to next-generation platforms. we anticipate that we will continue to incur losses until such time as we generate sufficient levels of revenue to offset these increased costs. continued losses could adversely affect the price of our common stock and our business. our business is highly dependent on the success, timely release and availability of new video game platforms, on the continued availability of existing video game platforms, as well as our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. we derive most of our revenue from the sale of products for play on video game platforms manufactured by third parties, such as sony playstation 2, playstation 3 and psp; and microsoft xbox and xbox 360. the success of our business is driven in large part by the availability of an adequate supply of current generation video game platforms (such as the playstation 2), the adequate supply, and, increasingly, the success of new video game hardware systems (such as the xbox 360, playstation 3 and the wii), our ability to accurately predict which platforms will be successful in the marketplace, and our ability to develop 20 commercially successful products for these platforms. we must make product development decisions and commit significant resources well in advance of the anticipated introduction of a new platform. a new platform for which we are developing products may not succeed or may have a shorter life cycle than anticipated. alternatively, a platform for which we have not devoted significant resources could be more successful than we had initially anticipated, causing us to miss a meaningful revenue opportunity. if the platforms for which we are developing products are not available in adequate quantities to meet consumer demand or are lower than our expectations, or do not attain wide market acceptance, our revenue will suffer, we may be unable to fully recover the investments we have made in developing our products, and our financial performance will be harmed. we expect the average price of current generation software titles to continue to decline. consumer demand for software for current generation platforms has declined as newer and more advanced hardware platforms achieve market acceptance. as the gaming software industry transitions to next-generation platforms, we expect few, if any, current generation titles will be able to command premium price points and we expect that these titles will be subject to price reductions earlier in their product life cycles than we have seen in prior years. as a result, we have reduced prices for our current generation software titles and we expect to continue to reduce prices for our current generation software titles which will have a negative impact on our operating results. the market for our titles is characterized by short product life cycles. delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our products may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. the market for our titles is characterized by short product life cycles and frequent introductions of new products. new products may not achieve significant market acceptance or generate sufficient sales to permit us to recover development, manufacturing and marketing costs associated with these products. the life cycle of a title generally involves a relatively high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. because revenues associated with an initial product launch generally constitute a high percentage of the total revenue associated with the life of a product, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of one or more new products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cause our operating results to be materially different from expectations. we have experienced delays in product releases and in fiscal 2005 our revenue was negatively impacted by product returns due to the re-rating by the esrb of grand theft auto: san andreas from m (age 17 and older) to ao (age 18 and older). such delays and disruptions may occur in the future. we are dependent on the future success of our grand theft auto products and we must continue to publish hit titles in order to successfully compete in our industry. grand theft auto and certain of our other titles are hit products and have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our revenues. if we fail to continue to develop and sell new commercially successful hit titles or experience any delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our hit titles, our revenues and profits may decrease substantially and we may incur losses. for the years ended october 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 our grand theft auto titles accounted for 22.4%, 38.2% and 34.3% of our total revenue, respectively, and our ten best selling titles accounted for approximately 38.4%, 48.2% and 46.3% of our net revenues, respectively. in addition, competition in our industry is intense and a relatively small number of hit titles account for a large portion of total revenue in our industry. hit products offered by our competitors may take a larger share of consumer spending than we anticipate, which could cause revenue generated from our products and services to fall below our expectations. if our competitors develop more successful products or services at lower price points or based on payment models perceived as offering better value (such as pay-for play or subscription-based models), or if we do 21 not continue to develop consistently high quality and well-received products and services, our revenue and profitability will decline. our software titles compete for the leisure and entertainment time of consumers, which has intensified in part due to advances in technology. we face increasing competition for the leisure and entertainment time of consumers. our publishing business competes with all other sources of information and entertainment, including television, movies, music, live events, radio broadcasts, home video products, print media and the internet. technological advancements, such as new streaming capabilities and downloading entertainment via the internet, have increased the number of media and entertainment choices available to consumers and presents challenges as our audience becomes more fragmented. the increasing number of choices available to consumers could negatively impact demand for our products, or require us to use additional resources to develop more sophisticated software, or both. if we do not respond effectively to increases in the leisure and entertainment choices available to consumers, it could have an adverse effect on our competitive position and revenues. if we fail to retain creative and product development personnel, our business could be seriously harmed. we are highly dependent on the expertise, skills and knowledge of certain of our rockstar employees responsible for content creation and development of grand theft auto and other titles. although we entered into employment agreements with our key rockstar employees, and we have granted them incentives including an internal royalty program based on sales of rockstar published products, we may not be able to continue to retain these personnel at current compensation levels, or at all. the compensation arrangements with such rockstar employees could result in increased expenses and have a negative impact on our operating results. in addition, if one or more of these individuals leave our company, we may lose additional personnel, experience material interruptions in product development and delays in bringing products to market, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. we depend on our key management personnel. our continued success will depend to a significant extent on our senior management. the loss of the services of our executive officers could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, if one or more key employees join a competitor or form a competing company, we may lose additional personnel, experience material interruptions in product development, delays in bringing products to market and difficulties in our relationships with licensors, suppliers and customers, which could significantly harm our business, financial condition and operating results. additionally, failure to continue to attract and retain qualified management personnel could adversely affect our business and prospects. our ability to acquire licenses to intellectual property, especially for sports titles, impacts our revenue and profitability. competition for these licenses may make them more expensive and increase our costs. many of our products are based on or incorporate intellectual property owned by others. for example, our 2k sports products include rights licensed from major sports leagues and players associations. similarly, some of our other titles are based on key film and television licenses. competition for these licenses is intense. if we are unable to maintain these licenses or obtain additional licenses with significant commercial value, our revenues and profitability will decline significantly. competition for these licenses may also drive up the advances, guarantees and royalties that we must pay to the licensor, which could significantly increase our costs. 22 our business is dependent on our ability to enter into successful software development arrangements with third parties. our success depends on our ability to continually identify and develop new titles on a timely basis. we rely on third-party software developers for the development of certain of our titles. quality third-party developers are continually in high demand. software developers who have developed titles for us in the past may not be available to develop software for us in the future. due to the limited number of third-party software developers and the limited control that we exercise over them, these developers may not be able to complete titles for us on a timely basis or within acceptable quality standards, if at all. we have entered into agreements with third parties to acquire the rights to publish and distribute interactive entertainment software as well as to use licensed intellectual properties in our titles. these agreements typically require us to make advance payments, pay royalties and satisfy other conditions. our advance payments may not be sufficient to permit developers to develop new software successfully, which could result in material delays and significantly increase our costs to bring particular products to market. software development costs, promotion and marketing expenses and royalties payable to software developers and third-party licensors have increased significantly in recent years and reduce potential profits derived from sales of our software. future sales of our titles may not be sufficient to recover advances to software developers and licensors, and we may not have adequate financial and other resources to satisfy our contractual commitments to such developers. if we fail to satisfy our obligations under agreements with third-party developers and licensors, the agreements may be terminated or modified in ways that are burdensome to us, and materially adversely affect our operating results. we are subject to product development risks which could result in delays and additional costs, and we must adapt to changes in software technologies. we depend on third-party software developers and our internal development studios to develop new interactive entertainment software within anticipated release schedules and cost projections. the development cycle for new titles ranges from twelve to thirty-six months and is expected to increase in connection with the development of next-generation software. after development of a product, it may take between nine to twelve additional months to develop the product for other hardware platforms. if developers experience financial difficulties, additional costs or unanticipated development delays, we will not be able to release titles according to our schedule and at budgeted costs. certain of our licensing and marketing agreements also contain provisions that would impose penalties in the event that we fail to meet agreed upon software release dates. additionally, in order to stay competitive, our internal development studios must anticipate and adapt to rapid technological changes affecting software development. any inability to respond to technological advances and implement new technologies could render our products obsolete or less marketable. the interactive entertainment software industry is highly competitive both for our publishing and distribution operations. we compete for both licenses to properties and the sale of interactive entertainment software with sony, microsoft and nintendo, each of which is a large developer and marketer of software for its own platforms. each of these competitors has the financial resources to withstand significant price competition and to implement extensive advertising campaigns, particularly for television spots. these companies may also increase their own software development efforts or focus on developing software products for third-party platforms. we also compete with domestic game publishers such as electronic arts, activision, thq, midway games and atari and international publishers, such as sega, vivendi, ubisoft, sci entertainment, capcom, konami and namco-bondai. as our business is driven by hit titles, which require increasing budgets for development and marketing, the availability of significant financial resources has become a major competitive factor in developing and marketing software games. some of our competitors 23 have greater financial, technical, personnel and other resources than we do and are able to finance larger budgets for development and marketing and make higher offers to licensors and developers for commercially desirable properties. our titles also compete with other forms of entertainment such as motion pictures, television and audio and video products featuring similar themes, online computer programs and forms of entertainment which may be less expensive or provide other advantages to consumers. our distribution business also operates in a highly competitive environment. competition is based primarily on breadth, availability and quality of product lines; price; terms and conditions of sale; credit terms and availability; speed and accuracy of delivery; and effectiveness of sales and marketing programs. our competitors include regional, national and international distributors, as well as hardware manufacturers and software publishers. we may lose market share or be forced in the future to reduce our prices in response to our competitors. our distribution business has been adversely affected by lower sales volume of software titles, a decrease in average selling prices of interactive entertainment products as our industry transitions to next-generation technology and increased competition in the value software market. a number of software publishers who compete with us have developed and commercialized or are currently developing online games for use by consumers over the internet. future increased consumer acceptance and increases in the availability of online games or technological advances in online game software sales or the internet could result in a decline in platform-based software sales and negatively impact sales of our products. direct sales of software over the internet by our competitors could materially adversely affect our distribution business. increased competition for limited shelf space and promotional support from retailers could affect the success of our business and require us to incur greater expenses to market our titles. retailers have limited shelf space and promotional resources, and competition is intense among newly introduced interactive entertainment software titles for adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support. competition for retail shelf space is expected to increase, which may require us to increase our marketing expenditures to maintain desirable levels of sales of our titles. competitors with more extensive lines and popular titles may have greater bargaining power with retailers. accordingly, we may not be able, or we may have to pay more than our competitors, to achieve similar levels of promotional support and shelf space. a limited number of customers account for a significant portion of our sales. the loss of a principal customer could seriously hurt our business. a substantial portion of our product sales are made to a limited number of customers. sales to our five largest customers accounted for approximately 49.4% and 40.7% of our net revenues, for the year ended october 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, with wal-mart, gamestop and best buy accounting for 15.4%, 12.6% and 10.2%, respectively, of such revenues for the year ended october 31, 2006. our sales are made primarily pursuant to purchase orders without long-term agreements or other commitments, and our customers may terminate their relationship with us at any time. certain of our customers may decline to carry products containing mature content. the loss of our relationships with principal customers or a decline in sales to principal customers, including as a result of a product being rated ao (age 18 and over), could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. bankruptcies or consolidations of certain large retail customers could seriously hurt our business. 24 returns of our published titles by our customers and price concessions granted to our customers may adversely affect our operating results. we are exposed to the risk of product returns and price concessions with respect to our customers. our distribution arrangements with customers generally do not give them the right to return titles to us or to cancel firm orders. however, we sometimes accept product returns from our distribution customers for stock balancing and negotiate accommodations to customers which include credits and returns, when demand for specific products falls below expectations. we accept returns and grant price concessions in connection with our publishing arrangements and revenue is recognized after deducting estimated reserves for returns and price concessions. while we believe that we can reliably estimate future returns and price concessions, if return rates and price concessions for our published titles exceed our reserves, our revenues could decline. failure to collect our accounts receivable on a timely basis will negatively impact our cash flow. our sales are typically made on credit. we do not hold any collateral to secure payment by our customers. as a result, we are subject to credit risks, particularly in the event that a significant amount of our receivables represent sales to a limited number of retailers or are concentrated in foreign markets. although we continually assess the creditworthiness of our customers, which are principally large, national retailers, if we are unable to collect our accounts receivable as they become due, it could adversely affect our financial condition and cash flow. from time to time we purchase insurance from financial institutions on our receivables, with certain limits, to help protect us from loss in the event of a customer bankruptcy or insolvency. we are subject to the rating of our content by the entertainment software rating board. failure to obtain a target rating for certain of our products could negatively impact our sales as could a game re-rating. we submit our game products to the esrb, a voluntary ratings organization that requires publishers to submit game content for rating. the esrb system provides consumers with information about game content using a rating symbol that suggests the appropriate player age group, and content descriptor information, such as graphic violence, profanity, or sexually explicit material. the esrb rating is printed on each game package and retailers may use the rating to restrict sales to the recommended age groups. the esrb may impose significant penalties on game publishers for violations of its rules on rating or marketing a game, including revocation of a rating or monetary fines. certain countries have also established similar rating systems as prerequisites for product sales in those countries. we believe that we comply with rating system requirements and properly display the designated rating symbols and content descriptors. in some instances, we may have to modify our products in order to market them under the expected rating, which could delay or disrupt the release of our products. sales of some of our titles, however, have been prohibited in certain countries. in the united states, we expect our software titles to receive esrb ratings of e (age 6 and older), e10+ (age 10 and older), t (age 13 and over) or m (age 17 and over). in addition to these ratings, the esrb may also rate a game as ao (age 18 and over). many of our rockstar titles and certain of our 2k games titles have been rated m by the esrb. if we are unable to obtain m ratings as a result of changes in the esrb ratings standards or for other reasons, including the adoption of legislation in this area, our business and prospects could be negatively affected. in the event any of our games are re-rated by the esrb, we may be required to record a reserve for anticipated product returns and inventory obsolescence which could expose us to additional litigation, administrative fines and penalties and other potential liabilities, and could adversely affect our operating results. 25 we entered into a consent order with the staff of the federal trade. the federal trade commission ( ftc ) has concluded its previously reported inquiry regarding the advertising claims for grand theft auto: san andreas following the re-rating of the title by the esrb. in july 2006, we entered into an agreement with the staff of the ftc containing a consent order that settled all outstanding matters pending before the ftc. under the terms of the consent order, we established, and must implement, and maintain a comprehensive system reasonably designed to ensure that all content in an electronic game is considered and reviewed in preparing submissions to a u.s. rating authority. the companies also agreed to accurately represent the rating and content descriptors for games they publish and to disclose to consumers the presence of any content relevant to the rating that was not disclosed to the rating authority. if we fail to comply with the terms of the consent order, we could be required to pay substantial fines, penalties and judgments and our operations could be significantly harmed. we are currently in litigation that could negatively impact our financial results. we are currently named as a defendant in class actions complaints alleging consumer deception, false advertising and common law fraud, class action and derivative complaints alleging violations of certain federal securities laws, an action brought by the city attorney of los angeles and actions brought by the estates of certain individuals claiming violations of state manufacturing liability and wrongful death statutes. we cannot predict the outcome of these pending matters, which could result in the imposition of significant fines and penalties and/or judgments that could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant legal and other professional fees and expenses in connection with pending litigation as well as pending regulatory matters which have also diverted management attention from our business. see item 3 legal proceedings . we have received requests for information from certain state and federal regulatory authorities. we have received grand jury subpoenas issued by the district attorney of the county of new york requesting production of documents covering various periods beginning on january 1, 1997, including those relating to, among other things: the so-called hot coffee scenes in grand theft auto: san andreas; the work of our board of directors, all board committees, and the special litigation committee; certain acquisitions entered into by us ; billing and payment records relating to pricewaterhouse coopers llc ( pwc ) and the termination of pwc as our auditors; communications to financial analysts and stockholders about acquisitions and financial results; compensation and human resources documents of certain of our directors and employees; stock-based compensation; the sec june 2006 inquiry; legal services performed for employees; corporate credit card and expense records of certain individuals; the sec bar of our former chief executive officer, ryan brant; and ethics, securities, and conflict of interest policies and questionnaires. we are fully cooperating and providing the documents and information called for by the subpoenas. we have also received notice from the sec that it is conducting an informal non-public investigation into certain stock option grants made by us from january 1997 to the present. we and the special committee are fully cooperating with the sec. we have also received requests for documents and information relating to grand theft auto: san andreas from certain state attorneys general, which matters have been dormant for some time. we have also received a request for information from the internal revenue service that includes a request for records relating to the grant and exercise of options and tax deductions taken by us pursuant to internal 26 revenue code section 162(m) for the period from october 31, 2000 to october 31, 2004. we are fully cooperating and providing the requested documents. these regulatory matters could divert resources away from our business, which could undermine our ability to effectively compete and seriously hurt our business and prospects. while under review, our ability to enter into capital-raising, strategic and other potential corporate transactions on favorable terms could be severely hampered. we cannot predict the outcome of these pending reviews, which could ultimately result in the imposition of significant fines and other penalties and/or judgments that could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. our business and products are subject to increasing potential legislation. the adoption of such proposed legislation could limit the retail market for our products. several proposals have been made for federal legislation to regulate our industry, including a senate bill, referred to as the family entertainment protection act. this bill proposes to prohibit the sale of m rated, ao rated and rating pending products to under-17 audiences. if the bill is adopted into law, it may limit the potential market for our m rated products, and adversely affect our operating results. other countries, such as germany, have adopted laws regulating content both in packaged games and those transmitted over the internet that are stricter than current united states laws. in the united states, proposals have also been made by numerous state legislators to regulate the sale of interactive entertainment software products containing violent or sexually explicit material by prohibiting the sale of such products to under 17 or 18 audiences and proposing penalties for noncompliance, and certain states have recently sought to adopt laws regulating m or ao rated products or products otherwise depicting violent or sexually explicit materials. while such legislation has been successfully enjoined by industry and retail groups, the adoption into law of such legislation in federal and/or in state jurisdictions in which we do significant business could severely limit the retail market for our m rated titles. content policies adopted by retailers, consumer opposition and litigation could negatively impact sales of our products . retailers may decline to sell interactive entertainment software containing graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other content that they deem inappropriate for their businesses. if retailers decline to sell our m rated products or products containing graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other objectionable content generally, or if our m rated products are rated ao, we might be required to significantly change or discontinue particular titles, which in the case of our best selling grand theft auto titles could seriously hurt our business. consumer advocacy groups have opposed sales of interactive entertainment software containing graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other objectionable content by pressing for legislation in these areas and by engaging in public demonstrations and media campaigns. additionally, although lawsuits seeking damages for injuries allegedly suffered by third parties as a result of video games have been unsuccessful in the courts, claims of this kind have been asserted against us from time to time. see item 3. legal proceedings. we cannot publish our console titles without the approval of hardware licensors who are also our competitors. we are required to obtain a license from sony, microsoft and nintendo, who are also our competitors, to develop and publish titles for their respective hardware platforms. our existing platform licenses require that we obtain approval for the publication of new titles on a title-by-title basis. as a result, the number of titles we are able to publish for these hardware platforms, and our ability to manage the timing of the release of these titles and, accordingly, our net revenues from titles for these hardware platforms, may be limited. if any licensor chooses not to renew or extend our license agreement at the end of its current term, or if the licensor were to terminate our license for any reason, we would be unable to publish additional 27 titles for that licensor platform. termination of any such agreements could seriously hurt our business and prospects. microsoft released its next-generation hardware platform into the north american marketplace in november 2005, and each of sony and nintendo introduced their respective next-generation platforms into the marketplace during november 2006. certain platform licensors have retained the right to change fee structures for online gameplay, and each licensor ability to set royalty rates makes it difficult for us to forecast our costs. increased costs could negatively impact our operating margins. we may be unable to enter into license agreements for certain next-generation platforms on satisfactory terms or at all. failure to enter into any such agreement could also seriously hurt our business. our quarterly operating results are highly seasonal and may fluctuate significantly, which could cause our stock price to decline. we have experienced and may continue to experience wide fluctuations in quarterly operating results. the interactive entertainment industry is highly seasonal, with sales typically higher during the fourth calendar quarter (our fourth and first fiscal quarters), due primarily to increased demand for games during the holiday buying season. our failure or inability to introduce products on a timely basis to meet seasonal fluctuations in demand could adversely affect our business and operating results. the uncertainties associated with software development, manufacturing lead times, production delays and the approval process for products by hardware manufacturers and other licensors make it difficult to predict the quarter in which our products will ship and therefore may cause us to fail to meet financial expectations. in future quarters, our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors and the price of our stock could decline significantly. our expansion and acquisitions may strain our operations, and we may not have sufficient financial resources to continue to expand our operations at previous levels. we have expanded through internal growth and acquisitions, which has placed and may continue to place a significant strain on our management, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. we have expanded our publishing operations, significantly increased our advances to licensors and developers and manufacturing expenditures and enlarged our work force. to successfully manage this growth, we must continue to implement and improve our operating systems as well as hire, train and manage a substantial and increasing number of management, technical, marketing, administrative and other personnel. we may be unable to effectively manage our expanding and geographically dispersed operations. we have acquired rights to various properties and businesses, and we intend to continue to pursue opportunities by making selective acquisitions consistent with our business strategy. we may be unable to successfully integrate new personnel, properties or businesses into our operations. if we are unable to successfully integrate personnel, properties or businesses into our operations, we may incur significant charges. our publishing and distribution activities require significant cash resources. we may be required to seek debt or equity financing to fund the cost of continued expansion and there is no guarantee that could obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. the issuance of equity securities would result in dilution to the interests of our stockholders. our business is subject to risks generally associated with the entertainment industry, and we may fail to properly assess consumer tastes and preferences. our business is subject to all of the risks generally associated with the entertainment industry and, accordingly, our future operating results will depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including 28 the popularity, price and timing of new hardware platforms being released; economic, political and military conditions that adversely affect discretionary consumer spending; changes in consumer demographics; the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment; and critical reviews and public tastes and preferences, which may change rapidly and cannot be predicted. in order to plan for acquisition and promotional activities, we must anticipate and respond to rapid changes in consumer tastes and preferences. a decline in the popularity of certain game genres or particular platforms could cause sales of our titles to decline dramatically. the period of time necessary to develop new game titles, obtain approvals of platform licensors and produce finished products is unpredictable. during this period, consumer appeal for a particular title may decrease, causing product sales to fall short of expectations. we cannot be certain of the future effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting or the impact of the same on our operations or the market price for our common stock. pursuant to section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, we are required to include in our annual report on form 10-k our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. furthermore, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to audit our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and separately report on whether it believes we maintain, in all material respects, effective internal controls over financial reporting. although we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we cannot be certain that future material changes to our internal controls over financial reporting will be effective. if we cannot adequately maintain the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the sec. any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock. we may not be able to protect our proprietary rights or avoid claims that we infringe on the proprietary rights of others. we develop proprietary software and have obtained the rights to publish and distribute software developed by third parties. we attempt to protect our software and production techniques under copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as well as through contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and distribution. our software is susceptible to piracy and unauthorized copying. unauthorized third parties may be able to copy or to reverse engineer our software to obtain and use programming or production techniques that we regard as proprietary. well organized piracy operations have also proliferated in recent years resulting in the ability to download pirated copies of our software over the internet. although we attempt to incorporate protective measures into our software, piracy of our products could negatively impact our future profitability. with advances in technology, game content and software graphics are expected to become more realistic. as a result, we believe that interactive entertainment software will increasingly become the subject of claims that such software infringes the intellectual property rights of others. from time to time, we receive notices from third parties or are named in lawsuits by third parties alleging infringement of their proprietary rights. although we believe that our software and technologies and the software and technologies of third-party developers and publishers with whom we have contractual relations do not and will not infringe or violate proprietary rights of others, it is possible that infringement of proprietary rights of others has or may occur. any claims of infringement, with or without merit, could be time consuming, costly and difficult to defend. moreover, intellectual property litigation or claims could require us to discontinue the distribution of products, obtain a license or redesign our products, which could result in additional substantial costs and material delays. 29 our software is susceptible to errors, which can harm our financial results and reputation. the technological advancements of new hardware platforms result in the development of more complex software products. as software products become more complex, the risk of undetected errors in products when first introduced increases. if, despite testing, errors are found in new products or releases after shipments have been made, we could experience a loss of or delay in timely market acceptance, product returns, loss of revenues and damage to our reputation. gross margins relating to our distribution business have been historically narrow which increases the impact of variations in costs on our operating results. as a result of intense price competition, our gross margins in our distribution business have historically been narrow and may continue to be narrow in the future. accordingly, slight variations in operating costs and expenses could result in losses in our distribution business from period to period. we may not be able to adequately adjust our cost structure in a timely fashion in response to a sudden decrease in demand. a significant portion of our selling and general and administrative expense is comprised of personnel and facilities. in the event of a significant decline in revenues, we may not be able to exit facilities, reduce personnel, or make other changes to our cost structure without disruption to our operations or without significant termination and exit costs. management may not be able to implement such actions in a timely manner, if at all, to offset an immediate shortfall in revenues and profit. moreover, reducing costs may impair our ability to produce and develop software titles at sufficient levels in the future. our distribution business is dependent on suppliers to maintain an adequate supply of products to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis. our ability to obtain particular products in required quantities and to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis is important to our success. in most cases, we have no guaranteed price or delivery agreements with suppliers. in certain product categories, limited price concessions or return rights offered by publishers may have a bearing on the amount of product we may be willing to purchase. our industry may experience significant hardware supply shortages from time to time due to the inability of certain manufacturers to supply certain products on a timely basis. as a result, we have experienced, and may in the future continue to experience, short-term hardware inventory shortages. further, manufacturers or publishers who currently distribute their products through us may decide to distribute, or to substantially increase their existing distribution, through other distributors, or directly to retailers. if manufacturers do not supply us with finished titles on favorable terms without delays, our operations would be materially interrupted, and we would be unable to obtain sufficient amounts of our product to sell to our customers. if we cannot obtain sufficient product supplies, our net revenues will decline and we could incur losses. we are subject to the risk that our inventory values may decline and protective terms under supplier arrangements may not adequately cover the decline in values. the interactive entertainment software and hardware industry is characterized by the introduction of new and enhanced generations of products and evolving industry standards. these changes may cause inventory to decline substantially in value over time or to become obsolete. we are exposed to inventory risk in our distribution business to the extent that supplier price concessions are not available to us on all products or quantities. in addition, suppliers may become insolvent and unable to fulfill price concession obligations. 30 we are subject to risks and uncertainties of international trade, including fluctuations in the values of local foreign currencies against the dollar. sales in international markets, primarily in the united kingdom and other territories in europe, have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenues. sales in international markets accounted for approximately 39.4% and 39.8%, respectively, of our net revenues for the years ended october 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. we are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased credit risks; tariffs and duties; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; shipping delays; and international political, regulatory and economic developments, all of which can have a significant impact on our operating results. all of our international sales are made in local currencies, which could fluctuate against the dollar. while we may use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile as a result of, among other things, factors affecting the industry. the market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile. factors such as our operating results, announcements by us or our competitors and various factors affecting the interactive entertainment software industry may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. we seek to manage our business with a view to achieving long-term results, and this could have a negative effect on short-term trading. we focus on creation of shareholder value over time, and we intend to make decisions that will be consistent with this long-term view. as a result, some of our decisions, such as whether to make or discontinue operating investments, manage our balance sheet and capital structure, or pursue or discontinue strategic initiatives, may be in conflict with the objectives of short-term traders. further, this could adversely affect our quarterly or other short-term results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are subject to market risks in the ordinary course of our business, primarily risks associated with interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations. historically, fluctuations in interest rates have not had a significant impact on our operating results. at october 31, 2006, we had no outstanding variable rate indebtedness. we transact business in foreign currencies and are exposed to risks resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. accounts relating to foreign operations are translated into united states dollars using prevailing exchange rates at the relevant fiscal quarter or year end. translation adjustments are included as a separate component of stockholders equity. for 2006, our foreign currency translation adjustment loss was $6.2 million and our foreign exchange transaction gain was $2.2 million.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 33 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (dollars in thousands) we are subject to market risks in the ordinary course of our business, primarily risks associated with interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations. historically, fluctuations in interest rates have not had a significant impact on our operating results. at october 31, 2004, we had no outstanding variable rate indebtedness. we transact business in foreign currencies and are exposed to risks resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. accounts relating to foreign operations are translated into united states dollars using prevailing exchange rates at the relevant fiscal quarter or year end. translation adjustments are included as a separate component of stockholders equity. for fiscal 2004 our foreign currency translation adjustment gain was $7,290 and our foreign exchange transaction gain was $1,199. a hypothetical 10% change in applicable currency exchange rates at october 31, 2004 would result in a material translation adjustment.risk factors 11 risk factors we anticipate that we will incur a net loss for the quarter ending january 31, 2006, and we may incur future net losses. although we have achieved increasing levels of revenue and have generated profits in each of our last three fiscal years, we anticipate that we will incur a net loss for the quarter ending january 31, 2006 primarily as a result of a weak retail environment during the holiday season. we expect to incur increased levels of expenses associated with significant product development and licensing commitments over the next year in connection with the diversification of our product offerings. we may not generate sufficient levels of revenues to offset these increased costs, and we may incur losses in future periods. continued losses could adversely affect the price of our common stock. the market for our titles is characterized by short product life cycles. delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our products may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. the market for our titles is characterized by short product life cycles and frequent introductions of new products. new products may not achieve significant market acceptance or generate sufficient sales to permit us to recover development, manufacturing and marketing costs associated with these products. the life cycle of a title generally involves a relatively high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. because revenues associated with an initial product launch generally constitute a high percentage of the total revenues associated with the life of a product, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of one or more new products could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and cause our operating results to be materially different from expectations. we have experienced delays in product releases and in fiscal 2005 our revenues were negatively impacted by product returns due to the re-rating by the esrb of grand theft auto: san andreas from m (age 17 and older) to ao (age 18 and older). such delays and disruptions may occur in the future. in addition, if we release a limited number of new products during any period, the failure of one or more of such products to achieve market acceptance could result in lower than anticipated revenues and significant operating losses. rapidly changing technology and hardware cycles could adversely affect our operations and our ability to forecast our operating results. the interactive entertainment industry is cyclical and is associated with rapidly changing technology. microsoft introduced its next generation hardware platform into the marketplace in november 2005, and we expect that sony and nintendo will introduce their respective next generation hardware platforms in 2006. as a result, we anticipate that as these newer and more advanced hardware platforms achieve market acceptance, consumer demand for software for older platforms will decline. during the transition to next generation platforms, we expect to continue to devote significant development resources on products designed for current generation platforms, including sony's playstation 2 and microsoft's xbox. consumers may elect to defer purchases of game software for these platforms until newer platforms become available. if consumer demand for these platforms declines generally or as a result of a next generation platform transition or if we are required to reduce prices for our current generation titles sooner than anticipated, we may experience lower than expected sales or losses from products designed for older platforms. during the transition to next generation platforms, we also expect to devote significant development resources on products designed for next generation hardware platforms, initially for the xbox 360 video game and entertainment system from microsoft. our ultimate success will depend on our ability to accurately predict which platforms will achieve widespread consumer acceptance. the time, resources and costs associated with the development of next generation software have increased substantially, which increases our risk of loss in the event that new platforms do not achieve commercial success. it is difficult to anticipate hardware development cycles, and we have made and will continue to make both internal and external software development commitments and product investment decisions well in advance of the introduction of new hardware platforms, resulting in cash outflows without corresponding revenues. if new hardware platforms are delayed or do not achieve 11 back to index consumer acceptance, we may be unable to recover our investments and our business and operating results could be materially adversely affected. furthermore, during such transition, our operating results may become more volatile and more difficult to predict, which could cause wide fluctuations in our stock price. a number of software publishers who compete with us have developed and commercialized or are currently developing online games for use by consumers over the internet. future increased consumer acceptance and increases in the availability of online games or technological advances in online game software or the internet could result in a decline in platform-based software and negatively impact sales of our products. direct sales of software over the internet by competitors could materially adversely affect our distribution business. a substantial portion of our revenues is derived from a limited number of titles, and we must continue to publish hit titles in order to succeed. grand theft auto and certain of our other titles are hit products and have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our revenues. for the year ended october 31, 2005, our ten best selling titles accounted for approximately 48.2% of our revenues, with grand theft auto: san andreas for the playstation 2 accounting for 25.6% of our revenues; midnight club 3: dub edition for the playstation 2 accounting for 4.4% of our revenues; grand theft auto: san andreas for xbox accounting for 4.1% of our revenues; and grand theft auto: liberty city stories for the psp accounting for 3.0% of our revenues. for the year ended october 31, 2004, our ten best selling titles accounted for approximately 46.3% of our revenues, with grand theft auto: san andreas for the playstation 2 accounting for 20.9% of our revenues; grand theft auto double pack for the xbox accounting for 5.7% of our revenues; grand theft auto: vice city for the playstation 2 accounting for 3.6% of our revenues; and max payne 2: the fall of max payne for the playstation 2 accounting for 3.2% of our revenues. for the year ended october 31, 2003, our ten best selling titles accounted for approximately 50.6% of our revenues, with grand theft auto: vice city for the playstation 2 and pc accounting for 36.2% of our revenues. if we fail to continue to develop and sell new commercially successful hit titles or experience any delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our hit titles, our revenues and profits may decrease substantially and we may incur losses. we are dependent on our management and other key personnel for our success. if we fail to retain creative and product development personnel, our business could be seriously harmed. we rely on our management and other key personnel for the successful operation of our business. in particular, we are highly dependent on the expertise, skills and knowledge of certain of our rockstar employees responsible for content creation and development of grand theft auto and other titles. we have reached an agreement in principle with respect to mutually satisfactory incentive compensation arrangements to retain these individuals for a three-year period, subject to the execution of a definitive agreement. the compensation arrangements could result in increased expenses and have a negative impact on our operating results. if we are unable to enter into a definitive agreement to continue to retain these individuals, or if one or more of these individuals otherwise leave the company, we may lose additional personnel, experience material interruptions in product development and delays in bringing products to market (including delays to our previously announced product release schedule), which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. additionally, failure to continue to attract and retain qualified management personnel could adversely affect our business and prospects. our efforts to diversify our product offerings and expand into the market for sports and other licensed titles may not be successful. our significant investments in licenses for sports titles may not result in profitable operations. we have recently diversified our product offerings by capitalizing on significant growth opportunities in the market for sports and other licensed action and strategy titles. our success in this market will depend in part on our ability to attract licensors with popular properties and to enter into favorable arrangements with these licensors, including licensors representing the major sports leagues and players' associations. competition for sports and other licensed properties is intense. if we are unable to continue to obtain and maintain licenses to popular properties, our revenue and profitability with respect to these products could decline dramatically. competition for licenses has also increased advances and royalties payable to licensors, which currently represent substantial financial commitments on our behalf. we may be unable to continue to enter into favorable license agreements, for financial or other reasons, and despite our efforts to diversify our product offerings, we may be unable to achieve increased levels of revenues or profitability. 12 back to index our business is dependent on our ability to enter into favorable publishing and intellectual property licensing arrangements with third parties. our success depends on our ability to continually identify and develop new titles on a timely basis. we have entered into agreements with third parties to acquire the rights to publish and distribute interactive entertainment software as well as to use licensed intellectual properties in our titles. these agreements typically require us to make advance payments, pay royalties and satisfy other conditions. our advance payments may not be sufficient to permit developers to develop new software successfully, which could result in material delays and significantly increase our costs to bring particular products to market. software development costs, promotion and marketing expenses and royalties payable to software developers and third-party licensors have increased significantly in recent years and reduce potential profits derived from sales of our software. future sales of our titles may not be sufficient to recover advances to software developers and licensors, and we may not have adequate financial and other resources to satisfy our contractual commitments, which are approximately $60.0 million for licensing and marketing and approximately $50.0 million for software development for the fiscal year ending october 31, 2006. if we fail to satisfy our obligations under agreements with third-party developers and licensors, the agreements may be terminated or modified in ways that may be burdensome to us, and materially adversely affect our operating results. failure to commercialize products that require significant investments could result in corresponding charges to earnings. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contractual obligations and contingent liabilities and commitments. we are subject to product development risks which could result in delays and additional costs, and we must adapt to changes in software technologies. we rely on third-party software developers for the development of certain of our titles. quality third-party developers are continually in high demand. software developers who have developed titles for us in the past may not be available to develop software for us in the future. due to the limited number of third-party software developers and the limited control that we exercise over them, these developers may not be able to complete titles for us on a timely basis or within acceptable quality standards, if at all. we depend on third-party software developers and our internal development studios to develop new interactive entertainment software within anticipated release schedules and cost projections. the development cycle for new titles ranges from twelve to thirty-six months and is expected to increase in connection with the development of next generation software. after development of a product, it may take between nine to twelve additional months to develop the product for other hardware platforms. if developers experience financial difficulties, additional costs or unanticipated development delays, we will not be able to release titles according to our schedule and at budgeted costs. additionally, in order to stay competitive, our internal development studios must anticipate and adapt to rapid technological changes affecting software development. any inability to respond to technological advances and implement new technologies could render our products obsolete or less marketable. the interactive entertainment software industry is highly competitive both for our publishing and distribution operations. we compete for both licenses to properties and the sale of interactive entertainment software with sony, microsoft and nintendo, each of which is a large developer and marketer of software for its own platforms. each of these competitors has the financial resources to withstand significant price competition and to implement extensive advertising campaigns, particularly for television spots. these companies may also increase their own software development efforts or focus on developing software products for third-party platforms. we also compete with domestic game publishers such as electronic arts, activision, thq, midway games and atari and international publishers, such as sega, vivendi, ubi soft, sci entertainment, capcom, konami and namco. as our business is driven by hit titles, which require increasing budgets for development and marketing, the availability of significant financial resources has become a major competitive factor in developing and marketing software games. some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, personnel and other resources than we do and are able to finance larger budgets for development and marketing and make higher offers to licensors and developers for commercially desirable properties. our titles also compete with other forms of entertainment such as motion pictures, television and audio and video products featuring 13 back to index similar themes, online computer programs and forms of entertainment which may be less expensive or provide other advantages to consumers. our distribution business also operates in a highly competitive environment. competition is based primarily on breadth, availability and quality of product lines; price; terms and conditions of sale; credit terms and availability; speed and accuracy of delivery; and effectiveness of sales and marketing programs. our competitors include regional, national and international distributors, as well as hardware manufacturers and software publishers. we may lose market share or be forced in the future to reduce our prices in response to our competitors. our distribution business has been adversely affected by lower sales volume of software titles, a decrease in average selling prices of interactive entertainment products as our industry transitions to next generation technology and increased competition in the value software market. increased competition for limited shelf space and promotional support from retailers could affect the success of our business and require us to incur greater expenses to market our titles. retailers have limited shelf space and promotional resources, and competition is intense among an increasing number of newly introduced interactive entertainment software titles for adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support. competition for retail shelf space is expected to increase, which may require us to increase our marketing expenditures to maintain desirable levels of sales of our titles. competitors with more extensive lines and popular titles may have greater bargaining power with retailers. accordingly, we may not be able to achieve the levels of promotional support and shelf space that such competitors receive. a limited number of customers account for a significant portion of our sales. the loss of a principal customer could seriously hurt our business. a substantial portion of our product sales are made to a limited number of customers, two of which have recently merged. sales to our five largest customers accounted for approximately 40.7% and 38.9% of our net revenues, respectively, for the fiscal years ended october 31, 2005 and 2004. for the fiscal year ended october 31, 2005, sales of our products to wal-mart accounted for 14.9% of our net revenues. our sales are made primarily pursuant to purchase orders without long-term agreements or other commitments, and our customers may terminate their relationship with us at any time. certain of our customers may decline to carry products containing mature content. the loss of our relationships with principal customers or a decline in sales to principal customers, including as a result of a product being re-rated to ao (age 18 and over), could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. bankruptcies or consolidations of certain large retail customers could seriously hurt our business. returns of our published titles by our customers and price concessions granted to our customers may adversely affect our operating results. we are exposed to the risk of product returns and price concessions with respect to our customers. our distribution arrangements with customers generally do not give them the right to return titles to us or to cancel firm orders. however, we sometimes accept product returns from our distribution customers for stock balancing and negotiate accommodations to customers which include credits and returns, when demand for specific products falls below expectations. we accept returns and grant price concessions in connection with our publishing arrangements and revenue is recognized after deducting estimated reserves for returns and price concessions. while we believe that we can reliably estimate future returns and price concessions, if return rates and price concessions for our published titles exceed our reserves, our revenues could decline. failure to collect our accounts receivables on a timely basis will negatively impact our cash flow. our sales are typically made on credit. we do not hold any collateral to secure payment by our customers. as a result, we are subject to credit risks, particularly in the event that any of our receivables represent sales to a limited number of retailers or are concentrated in foreign markets. although we continually assess the creditworthiness of our customers, which are principally large, national retailers, if we are unable to collect our accounts receivable as they become due, it could adversely affect our financial condition and cash flow. from time to time we purchase insurance from financial institutions on our receivables, with certain limits, to help protect us from loss in the event of a customer's bankruptcy or insolvency. 14 back to index we are subject to the rating of our content by the entertainment software rating board. failure to obtain m ratings for certain of our products could negatively impact our sales. we are also subject to a federal trade commission inquiry, class action complaints and a certain civil complaint. the entertainment software rating board, sometimes referred to as the esrb, requires game publishers to provide consumers with information relating to graphic violence, profanity or sexually explicit material contained in software titles, and imposes significant penalties for noncompliance. certain countries have also established similar rating systems as prerequisites for product sales in those countries. in some instances, we may be required to modify our products to comply with the requirements of rating systems, which could delay or disrupt the release of our products. sales of certain of our titles have been prohibited in certain countries. our software titles receive a rating of e (age 6 and older), e10+ (age 10 and older), t (age 13 and over) or m (age 17 and over). many of our rockstar titles have received an m rating. we believe that we comply with rating systems and properly display the ratings and content descriptions received for our titles. although game publishers have been able to modify content to satisfy esrb ratings standards for m ratings, if we are unable to obtain m ratings as a result of changes in the esrb's ratings standards or for other reasons, including the adoption of legislation in this area, our business and prospects could be negatively affected. the esrb requires publishers to conduct pertinent content audit certifications with respect to certain top selling titles, the objective of which is to assess what portion, if any, of the games on the market include undisclosed pertinent content on the disc that undermines the accuracy of the esrb rating. this self audit procedure applies to certain current titles and may be applied to additional titles in the future. we are currently conducting a self audit in accordance with the esrb requirements. it is possible that there may be content in our games that could be determined to be pertinent content that causes a change to our current esrb rating. in such event, we may be required to record a reserve for anticipated product returns and inventory obsolescence which could expose us to additional litigation, administrative fines and penalties and other potential liabilities, and could adversely affect our operating results. in july 2005, we were notified that the staff of the federal trade commission's division of advertising practices is conducting an inquiry into advertising claims made for grand theft auto: san andreas following the re-rating of the title by the esrb from an m rating to an ao rating (18 and over). this title was re-rated after an unauthorized third-party made certain content accessible that was not intended by us to be accessible in the playable version of the title. we have also received requests for documents and information relating to such title from certain states, and we are subject to class action complaints alleging consumer deception, false advertising and common law fraud and an action brought by the city attorney of los angeles. we cannot predict the outcome of these pending matters, which could result in the imposition of significant fines and penalties and judgments. additionally, we have incurred and may continue to incur significant legal and other professional fees and expenses in connection with pending regulatory matters and litigation, and these matters have also diverted management's attention from our business. see legal proceedings. our business and products are subject to increasing potential legislation. the adoption of such proposed legislation could limit the retail market for our products. several proposals have been made for federal legislation to regulate our industry, including a bill, referred to as the family entertainment protection act, which was recently introduced into the senate. such bill proposes to prohibit the sale of m rated, ao rated and rating pending products to under-17 audiences. if the bill is adopted into law, it may limit the potential market for our m rated products, and adversely affect our operating results. several proposals have also been made by state legislators (including in california, michigan and illinois) to regulate the sale of interactive entertainment software products containing violent or sexually explicit material by prohibiting the sale of such products to under 17 or 18 audiences and proposing penalties for noncompliance. while such legislation has been successfully enjoined by industry and retail groups, the adoption into law of such legislation in federal and/or in state jurisdictions in which we do significant business could severely limit the retail market for our m rated titles. content policies adopted by retailers, consumer opposition and litigation could negatively impact sales of our products. retailers may decline to sell interactive entertainment software containing graphic violence or sexually explicit material that they deem inappropriate for their businesses. if retailers decline to sell our m rated products or products containing graphic violence or sexually explicit material generally, or if our m rated products are re-rated ao, we might be required to significantly change or discontinue particular titles, which in the case of our best selling grand theft auto titles could seriously hurt our business. consumer advocacy groups have opposed sales of interactive entertainment software containing graphic violence or sexually explicit material by pressing for legislation in these areas and by engaging in public demonstrations and media campaigns. additionally, although lawsuits seeking damages for injuries allegedly suffered by third parties as a result of video games have been unsuccessful in the courts, claims of this kind have been asserted against us from time to time. see legal proceedings. 15 back to index we cannot publish our console titles without the approval of hardware licensors who are also our competitors. we are required to obtain a license from sony, microsoft and nintendo, who are also our competitors, to develop and publish titles for their respective hardware platforms. our existing platform licenses require that we obtain approval for the publication of new titles on a title-by-title basis. as a result, the number of titles we are able to publish for these hardware platforms, and our ability to manage the timing of the release of these titles and, accordingly, our net revenues from titles for these hardware platforms, may be limited. if any licensor chooses not to renew or extend our license agreement at the end of its current term, or if the licensor were to terminate our license for any reason, we would be unable to publish additional titles for that licensor's platform. termination of any such agreements could seriously hurt our business and prospects. microsoft released its next generation hardware platform into the marketplace in november 2005, and we expect that each of sony and nintendo will introduce their respective next generation platforms into the marketplace in 2006. in order to publish products for a new platform, we will be required to enter into a license agreement in advance of a platform's commercial introduction, which gives the platform licensor the opportunity to set our fee structure. certain platform licensors have retained the right to change fee structures for online game play, and each licensor's ability to set royalty rates makes it difficult for us to forecast our costs. increased costs could negatively impact our operating margins. we may be unable to enter into license agreements for certain next generation platforms on satisfactory terms or at all. failure to enter into any such agreement could also seriously hurt our business. sony and nintendo are the sole manufacturers of the titles we publish under license from them. games for the xbox and xbox 360 must be manufactured by manufacturers pre-approved by microsoft. each of these manufacturers also publishes software for its own platforms and manufactures titles for all of its other licensees and may choose to give priority to its own titles or those of other publishers if it has insufficient manufacturing capacity or if there is increased demand for its or other publishers' products. in addition, these manufacturers may not have sufficient production capacity to satisfy our scheduling requirements during any period of sustained demand. if manufacturers do not supply us with finished titles on favorable terms without delays, our operations would be materially interrupted, and we would be unable to obtain sufficient amounts of our product to sell to our customers. if we cannot obtain sufficient product supplies, our net revenues will decline and we could incur losses. our quarterly operating results are highly seasonal and may fluctuate significantly, which could cause our stock price to decline. we have experienced and may continue to experience wide fluctuations in quarterly operating results. the interactive entertainment industry is highly seasonal, with sales typically higher during the fourth calendar quarter (our fourth and first fiscal quarters), due primarily to increased demand for games during the holiday buying season. our failure or inability to introduce products on a timely basis to meet seasonal fluctuations in demand could adversely affect our business and operating results. the uncertainties associated with software development, manufacturing lead times, production delays and the approval process for products by hardware manufacturers and other licensors make it difficult to predict the quarter in which our products will ship and therefore may cause us to fail to meet financial expectations. in future quarters, our operating results may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors and the price of our stock could decline significantly. our expansion and acquisitions may strain our operations, and we may not have sufficient financial resources to continue to expand our operations at previous levels. we have expanded through internal growth and acquisitions, which has placed and may continue to place a significant strain on our management, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. we have expanded our publishing operations, significantly increased our advances to licensors and developers and manufacturing expenditures and enlarged our work force. to successfully manage this growth, we must continue to implement and improve our operating systems as well as hire, train and manage a substantial and increasing number of management, technical, marketing, administrative and other personnel. we may be unable to effectively manage our expanding and geographically dispersed operations. 16 back to index we have acquired rights to various properties and businesses, and we intend to continue to pursue opportunities by making selective acquisitions consistent with our business strategy. we may be unable to successfully integrate new personnel, properties or businesses into our operations. if we are unable to successfully integrate personnel, properties or businesses into our operations, we may incur significant charges. our publishing and distribution activities require significant cash resources. we may be required to seek debt or equity financing to fund the cost of continued expansion. the issuance of equity securities would result in dilution to the interests of our stockholders. our business is subject to risks generally associated with the entertainment industry, and we may fail to properly assess consumer tastes and preferences. our business is subject to all of the risks generally associated with the entertainment industry and, accordingly, our future operating results will depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including the popularity, price and timing of new hardware platforms being released; economic, political and military conditions that adversely affect discretionary consumer spending; changes in consumer demographics; the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment; and critical reviews and public tastes and preferences, which may change rapidly and cannot be predicted. in order to plan for acquisition and promotional activities, we must anticipate and respond to rapid changes in consumer tastes and preferences. a decline in the popularity of certain game genres or particular platforms could cause sales of our titles to decline dramatically. the period of time necessary to develop new game titles, obtain approvals of platform licensors and produce finished products is unpredictable. during this period, consumer appeal for a particular title may decrease, causing product sales to fall short of expectations. we may not be able to protect our proprietary rights or avoid claims that we infringe on the proprietary rights of others. we develop proprietary software and have obtained the rights to publish and distribute software developed by third parties. we attempt to protect our software and production techniques under copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as well as through contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and distribution. our software is susceptible to piracy and unauthorized copying. unauthorized third parties may be able to copy or to reverse engineer our software to obtain and use programming or production techniques that we regard as proprietary. well organized piracy operations have also proliferated in recent years resulting in the ability to download pirated copies of our software over the internet. although we attempt to incorporate protective measures into our software, piracy of our products could negatively impact our future profitability. with advances in technology, game content and software graphics are expected to become more realistic. as a result, we believe that interactive entertainment software will increasingly become the subject of claims that such software infringes the intellectual property rights of others. from time to time, we receive notices from third parties or are named in lawsuits by third parties alleging infringement of their proprietary rights. although we believe that our software and technologies and the software and technologies of third-party developers and publishers with whom we have contractual relations do not and will not infringe or violate proprietary rights of others, it is possible that infringement of proprietary rights of others has or may occur. any claims of infringement, with or without merit, could be time consuming, costly and difficult to defend. moreover, intellectual property litigation or claims could require us to discontinue the distribution of products, obtain a license or redesign our products, which could result in additional substantial costs and material delays. our software is susceptible to errors, which can harm our financial results and reputation. the technological advancements of new hardware platforms results in the development of more complex software products. as software products become more complex, the risk of undetected errors in products when first introduced increases. if, despite testing, errors are found in new products or releases after shipments have been made, we could experience a loss of or delay in timely market acceptance, product returns, loss of revenues and damage to our reputation. 17 back to index gross margins relating to our distribution business have been historically narrow which increases the impact of variations in costs on our operating results . as a result of intense price competition, our gross margins in our distribution business have historically been narrow and may continue to be narrow in the future. accordingly, slight variations in operating costs and expenses could result in losses in our distribution business from period to period. we may not be able to adequately adjust our cost structure in a timely fashion in response to a sudden decrease in demand. a significant portion of our selling and general and administrative expense is comprised of personnel and facilities. in the event of a significant decline in revenues, we may not be able to exit facilities, reduce personnel, or make other changes to our cost structure without disruption to our operations or without significant termination and exit costs. management may not be able to implement such actions in a timely manner, if at all, to offset an immediate shortfall in revenues and profit. our distribution business is dependent on suppliers to maintain an adequate supply of products to fulfil customer orders on a timely basis. our ability to obtain particular products in required quantities and to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis is important to our success. in most cases, we have no guaranteed price or delivery agreements with suppliers. in certain product categories, limited price concessions or return rights offered by publishers may have a bearing on the amount of product we may be willing to purchase. our industry may experience significant hardware supply shortages from time to time due to the inability of certain manufacturers to supply certain products on a timely basis. as a result, we have experienced, and may in the future continue to experience, short-term hardware inventory shortages. further, manufacturers or publishers who currently distribute their products through us may decide to distribute, or to substantially increase their existing distribution, through other distributors, or directly to retailers. we are subject to the risk that our inventory values may decline and protective terms under supplier arrangements may not adequately cover the decline in values. the interactive entertainment software and hardware industry is characterized by the introduction of new and enhanced generations of products and evolving industry standards. these changes may cause inventory to decline substantially in value over time or to become obsolete. we are exposed to inventory risk in our distribution business to the extent that supplier price concessions are not available to us on all products or quantities. in addition, suppliers may become insolvent and unable to fulfil price concession obligations. we are subject to risks and uncertainties of international trade, including fluctuations in the values of local foreign currencies against the dollar. sales in international markets, primarily in the united kingdom and other countries in europe, have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenues. sales in international markets accounted for approximately 32.0% and 27.5%, respectively, of our net revenues for fiscal 2005 and 2004. we are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased credit risks; tariffs and duties; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; shipping delays; and international political, regulatory and economic developments, all of which can have a significant impact on our operating results. all of our international sales are made in local currencies, which could fluctuate against the dollar. while we may use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our results of operations could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. the market price for our common stock may be highly volatile as a result of, among other things, factors affecting the industry. the market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile. factors such as our operating results, announcements by us or our competitors and various factors affecting the interactive entertainment software industry may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock. 18 back to index we are subject to rapidly evolving regulation affecting financial reporting, accounting and corporate governance matters. in response to recent corporate events, legislators and government agencies have focused on the integrity of financial reporting, and regulatory accounting bodies have recently announced their intention to issue several new accounting standards, including a recently adopted standard that accounts for stock options as compensation expense. additionally, recently enacted legislation focused on corporate governance, auditing and internal accounting controls imposes compliance burdens on us, and will require us to continue to devote substantial financial, technical and personnel resources to address various compliance issues and audit requirements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk (dollars in thousands) we are subject to market risks in the ordinary course of our business, primarily risks associated with interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations. historically, fluctuations in interest rates have not had a significant impact on our operating results. at october 31, 2005, we had no outstanding variable rate indebtedness. we transact business in foreign currencies and are exposed to risks resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. accounts relating to foreign operations are translated into united states dollars using prevailing exchange rates at the relevant fiscal quarter or year end. translation adjustments are included as a separate component of stockholders' equity. for fiscal 2005, our foreign currency translation adjustment loss was $5,668 and our foreign exchange transaction gain was $1,560. a hypothetical 10% change in applicable currency exchange rates at october 31, 2005 would result in a material translation adjustment. 42 back to indexrisk factors 6 risk factors our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. because of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other factors affecting our operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance and our business and financial performance could be harmed and the market value of our securities could decline. risks relating to our business we are dependent on the future success of our grand theft auto products and we must continue to publish "hit" titles or sequels to such "hit" titles in order to compete successfully in our industry. 6 grand theft auto and certain of our other titles are "hit" products and have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our revenue. grand theft auto products contributed 38.2% of the company's net revenue for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2017 and the five best-selling franchises (including grand theft auto ), which may change year over year, in the aggregate accounted for 89.8% of the company's net revenue for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2017 . if we fail to continue to develop and sell new commercially successful "hit" titles or sequels to such "hit" titles or experience any delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our "hit" titles or their sequels, our revenue and profits may decrease substantially and we may incur losses. in addition, competition in our industry is intense and a relatively small number of hit titles account for a large portion of total revenue in our industry. hit products offered by our competitors may take a larger share of consumer spending than we anticipate, which could cause revenue generated from our products to fall below our expectations. if our competitors develop more successful products or services at lower price points or based on payment models perceived as offering better value, or if we do not continue to develop consistently high quality and well-received products and services, our revenue and profitability may decline. in addition, both the online and mobile games marketplaces are characterized by frequent product introductions, relatively low barriers to entry, and new and evolving business methods, technologies and platforms for development. widespread consumer adoption of these new platforms for games and other technological advances in online or mobile game offerings could negatively affect our sales of console and traditional pc products before we have an opportunity to develop profitable businesses in such markets. we are subject to product development risks which could result in delays and additional costs, and we must adapt to changes in software technologies. we depend on our internal development studios and third-party software developers to develop new interactive entertainment software within anticipated release schedules and cost projections. the development cycle for new titles generally ranges from 12 months for annual sports releases, to multiple years for certain of our top-selling titles. therefore our development costs can be substantial. if we or our third party developers experience unanticipated development delays, financial difficulties or additional costs, we may not be able to release titles according to our schedule and at budgeted costs. there can be no assurance that our products will be sufficiently successful so that we can recoup these costs or make a profit on these products. additionally, in order to stay competitive, our internal development studios must anticipate and adapt to rapid technological changes affecting software development. any inability to respond to technological advances and implement new technologies could render our products obsolete or less marketable. further, the failure to pursue the development of new technology, platforms, or business models that obtain meaningful commercial success in a timely manner may negatively affect our business, resulting in increased production costs and more strenuous competition. the inability of our products to achieve significant market acceptance, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our products may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. new products may not achieve significant market acceptance, generate sufficient sales or be introduced in a timely manner to permit us to recover development, manufacturing and marketing costs associated with these products. the life cycle of a title generally involves a relatively high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. because sales associated with an initial product launch generally constitute a high percentage of the total sales associated with the life of a product, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of one or more new products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results and cause our operating results to be materially different from our expectations. our business is subject to our ability to develop commercially successful products for the current video game platforms. we derive most of our revenue from the sale of products made for video game platforms manufactured by third parties, such as sony's ps4 and ps3 and microsoft's xbox one and xbox 360, which comprised 81.0% of the company's net revenue by product platform for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2017 . the success of our business is subject to the continued popularity of these platforms and our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. connectivity issues could affect our ability to sell and provide online services for our products and could affect our profitability. we rely upon third-party digital delivery platforms, such as microsoft's xbox live, sony entertainment network, steam and other third-party service providers, to provide connectivity from the consumer to our digital products and our online services. connectivity issues could prevent customers from accessing this content and our ability to successfully market and sell our products could be adversely affected. in addition, we could experience similar issues related to services we host on our internal servers. such issues also could affect our ability to provide online services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 7 our business could be adversely affected if our consumer data protection measures are not seen as adequate or there are breaches of our security measures or unintended disclosures of our consumer data. we are collecting and storing consumer information, including personal information. we take measures to protect our consumer data from unauthorized access or disclosure. it is possible that our security controls over consumer data may not prevent the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information. in addition, due to the high profile nature of our products, we may draw a disproportionately higher amount of attention and attempts to breach our security controls than companies with lower profile products. a security breach that leads to disclosure of consumer account information (including personally identifiable information) could harm our reputation, compel us to comply with disparate breach notification laws in various jurisdictions and otherwise subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. a resulting perception that our products or services do not adequately protect the privacy of personal information could result in a loss of current or potential consumers and business partners. in addition, if any of our business partners experience a security breach that leads to disclosure of consumer account information, our reputation could be harmed, resulting in loss of revenue. in addition, certain of our products are online enabled. the ability of our products to offer online functionality, and our ability to offer content through a video game platform's digital distribution channel, is dependent upon the continued operation and security of such platform's online network. these third party networks, as well as our own internal systems and websites, and the security measures related thereto may be breached as a result of third-party action, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and result in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our customers' data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information, or our information technology systems. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. if an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, we may lose business, suffer irreparable damage to our reputation, and/or incur significant costs and expenses relating to the investigation and possible litigation of claims relating to such event. the laws and regulations concerning data privacy and certain other aspects of our business are continually evolving. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could harm our business. we are subject to certain privacy and data protection laws, including those in the united states. certain activities related to e.u. customers are registered with our u.k. data controller. the u.s. children's online privacy protection act also regulates the collection, use, and disclosure of personal information from children under 13 years of age. failure to comply with privacy laws, data protection laws, or age restrictions may increase our costs, subject us to expensive and distracting government investigations, and result in substantial fines. privacy and data protection laws are rapidly changing and likely will continue to do so for the foreseeable future, which could have an impact on our approach to operating and marketing our games. for example, the court of justice of the european union's recent decision to invalidate the e.u.-u.s. safe harbor regime that legitimized the transfer of certain personal data from the e.u. to the u.s. was a material change to laws on data privacy applicable to our business. in addition, after four years of preparation and debate, the e.u. parliament approved the general data protection regulation ("gdpr") on april 14, 2016. gdpr will become effective in may 2018, and will replace the existing data protection directive 95/46/ec. the u.s. government, including the federal trade commission and the department of commerce, also continue to review the need for greater or different regulation over the collection of personal information and information about consumer behavior on the internet and on mobile devices.various government and consumer agencies worldwide have also called for new regulation and changes in industry practices. player use of our games is subject to our privacy policy, end user license agreements, and terms of service. if we fail to comply with our posted privacy policy, eulas, or terms of service, or if we fail to comply with existing privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations, it could result in proceedings or litigation against us by governmental authorities or others, which could result in fines or judgments against us, damage our reputation, affect our financial condition and harm our business. if regulators, the media, or consumers raise any concerns about our privacy and data protection or consumer protection practices, even if unfounded, this could also result in fines or judgments against us, damage our reputation, negatively affect our financial condition, and damage our business. it is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted or construed to apply to us in the united states and elsewhere that could restrict the interactive entertainment industry, including player privacy, advertising, taxation, content suitability, copyright, distribution and antitrust. furthermore, the growth and development of electronic commerce and virtual goods may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on companies such as ours conducting business through digital sales. any such changes would require us to devote legal and other resources to address such regulation. for example, existing laws or new laws regarding the regulation of currency, banking institutions and unclaimed property may be interpreted to cover virtual currency or virtual goods. if that were to occur we may be required to seek licenses, authorizations or approvals from relevant regulators, the granting of which may be dependent on us meeting certain capital and other requirements and we may be subject to additional regulation and oversight, all of which could significantly increase our operating costs. changes 8 in current laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws and regulations in the united states or elsewhere regarding these activities may lessen the growth of the interactive entertainment industry and impair our business, financial condition, and operating results. security breaches involving the source code for our products or other sensitive and proprietary information could adversely affect our business. we securely store the source code for our interactive entertainment software products as it is created. a breach, whether physical, electronic or otherwise, of the systems on which such source code and other sensitive data are stored could lead to damage or piracy of our software. in addition, certain parties with whom we do business are given access to our sensitive and proprietary information in order to provide services and support our team. these third parties may misappropriate our information and engage in unauthorized use of it. if we are subject to data security breaches, we may have a loss in sales or increased costs arising from the restoration or implementation of additional security measures which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. any theft and/or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an event could adversely affect our competitive position, reputation, brand, and future sales of our products. our business could be subject to significant disruption, and we could suffer monetary and other losses and reputational harm, in the event of such incidents and claims. we rely on complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business. any significant system or network disruption could have a negative impact on our business. we rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks, some of which are within take-two and some of which are managed and/or hosted by third-party providers. all information technology systems and networks are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including but not limited to cyber-attacks, malicious software, security breach, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. we may also face sophisticated attacks, referred to as advanced persistent threats, which are cyber-attacks aimed at compromising our intellectual property and other commercially-sensitive information, such as the source code and game assets for our software or confidential customer or employee information, which remain undetected for prolonged periods of time. information technology system or network failure or security breach could negatively affect our business continuity, operations and financial results. these risks extend to the networks and e-commerce sites of console platform providers and other partners who sell and host our content online. we may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches. our efforts to expand into new products and services may subject us to additional risks. in recent years, we have invested in emerging opportunities in interactive entertainment played on mobile platforms, including tablets and smartphones, and online platforms, including social networks. we have also grown our product offerings that are available through digital download, including virtual currency, through our existing franchises such as grant theft auto and nba 2k as well as through product offerings by newly acquired social point and other mobile product offerings. we are actively investing to capitalize on these trends in order to diversify our product mix, reduce our operating risks, and increase our revenue. there are risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. there is no assurance that we will be able to attract a sufficiently large number of customers or recover costs incurred for developing and marketing any of these new products or services. for example, we may offer games that do not attract sufficient purchases of virtual currency, which may cause our investments into this product space, such as through our recent acquisition of social point, to fail to realize the expected benefits. external factors, such as competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also have an impact on the successful implementation of any new products or services. failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we depend on our key management and product development personnel. our continued success will depend to a significant extent on our senior management team and our relationship with zelnickmedia corporation ("zelnickmedia"). our executive chairman/chief executive officer and president are partners of zelnickmedia. we are also highly dependent on the expertise, skills and knowledge of certain of our rockstar employees and other key creative personnel responsible for content creation and development of our grand theft auto titles and titles based on other brands. we may not be able to continue to retain these personnel at current compensation levels, or at all. the loss of the services of our executive officers, zelnickmedia, our key rockstar employees or other key creative personnel could significantly harm our business. in addition, if one or more key employees were to join a competitor or form a competing company, we may lose additional personnel, experience material interruptions in product development, delays in bringing products to market and difficulties in our relationships with licensors, suppliers and customers, which would significantly harm our business. failure to continue to attract and retain other qualified management and creative personnel could adversely affect our business and prospects. 9 declines in consumer spending and other adverse changes in the economy could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. most of our products involve discretionary spending on the part of consumers. we believe that consumer spending is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. this makes our products particularly sensitive to general economic conditions and economic cycles as consumers are generally more willing to make discretionary purchases, including purchases of products like ours, during periods in which favorable economic conditions prevail. adverse economic conditions such as a prolonged u.s. or international general economic downturn, including periods of increased inflation, unemployment levels, tax rates, interest rates, energy prices or declining consumer confidence could also reduce consumer spending. reduced consumer spending has and may in the future continue to result in reduced demand for our products and may also require increased selling and promotional expenses, which has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, during periods of relative economic weakness, our consolidated credit risk, reflecting our counterparty dealings with distributors, customers, capital providers and others may increase, perhaps materially so. furthermore, uncertainty and adverse changes in the economy could also increase the risk of material losses on our investments, increase costs associated with developing and publishing our products, increase the cost and availability of sources of financing, and increase our exposure to material losses from bad debts, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. if economic conditions worsen, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and in various other jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes, and in the ordinary course of business there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are required to estimate future taxes. although we currently believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the estimate process is inherently uncertain, and such estimates are not binding on tax authorities. further, our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including changes in the business, including the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax elections, and changes in applicable tax laws. additionally, tax determinations are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities and developments in those audits could adversely affect our income tax provision. should the ultimate tax liability exceed estimates, our income tax provision and net income or loss could be adversely affected. historically, we recorded a valuation allowance against most of our u.s. deferred tax assets. we expect to provide a valuation allowance on future u.s. tax benefits until we can sustain a level of profitability or until other significant positive evidence arises that suggest that these benefits are more likely than not to be realized. further, our tax determinations are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities and developments in those audits could adversely affect our income tax provision. should our ultimate tax liability exceed our estimates, our income tax provision and net income or loss could be materially affected. we earn a significant amount of our operating income and hold a significant portion of our cash, outside the u.s. any repatriation of funds currently held in foreign jurisdictions may result in higher effective tax rates for the company. in addition, there have been proposals to change u.s. tax laws that would significantly affect how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. although we cannot predict whether or in what form this proposed legislation will pass, if enacted it could have a material adverse impact on our income tax provision and financial condition. we are also required to pay taxes other than income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions. we are regularly under examination by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations, changes in our business or changes in applicable tax rules will not have an adverse effect on our net income or loss and financial condition. unclaimed property audits by governmental authorities could adversely affect our operating results. we are subject to unclaimed property (escheat) laws which require us to turn over to certain government authorities the property of others held by us that has been unclaimed for a specified period of time. we are subject to audit by individual u.s. states with regard to our escheatment practices. the legislation and regulations related to unclaimed property matters tend to be complex and subject to varying interpretations by both government authorities and taxpayers. although management believes that the positions we have taken are reasonable, various taxing authorities may challenge certain of the positions we have taken, which may also potentially result in additional liabilities for unclaimed property and interest in excess of accrued liabilities. our positions are reviewed as events occur such as the availability of new information, the lapsing of applicable statutes of limitations, the measurement of additional estimated liability based on current calculations or the rendering of relevant court decisions. an unfavorable resolution of assessments by a governmental authority could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods. 10 our quarterly operating results are dependent on the release of "hit" titles and are highly seasonal which may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate significantly. we have experienced and may continue to experience wide fluctuations in quarterly operating results. the release of a "hit" title typically leads to a high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. in addition, the interactive entertainment industry is highly seasonal, with sales typically higher during the fourth calendar quarter, due primarily to increased demand for games during the holiday season. demand for and sales of titles in our nba 2k series are also seasonal in that they are typically released just prior to the start of the nba season. if a key event or sports season to which our product release schedule is tied were to be delayed or cancelled, our sales might also suffer disproportionately. our failure or inability to produce "hit" titles or introduce products on a timely basis to meet seasonal fluctuations in demand could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. the uncertainties associated with software development, manufacturing lead times, production delays and the approval process for products by hardware manufacturers and other licensors make it difficult to predict the quarter in which our products will ship and therefore may cause us to fail to meet financial expectations. price protection granted to our customers and returns of our published titles by our customers may adversely affect our operating results. we are exposed to the risk of price protection and product returns with respect to our customers. our distribution arrangements with customers generally do not give them the right to return titles to us or to cancel firm orders. however, we sometimes accept product returns from our distribution customers for stock balancing and negotiate accommodations for customers, which include credits and returns, when demand for specific products falls below expectations. we grant price protection and accept returns in connection with our publishing arrangements and revenue is recognized after deducting estimated price protection and reserves for returns. while we believe that we can reliably estimate future price protection and returns, if price protection and return rates for our products exceed our reserves, our revenue could decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. increased sales of used video game products could lower our sales. certain of our larger customers sell used video games, which are generally priced lower than new video games. if our customers increase their sales of used video games, it could negatively affect our sales of new video games and have an adverse influence on our business, financial condition and operating results. a limited number of customers account for a significant portion of our sales. the loss of a principal customer or other significant business relationship could seriously hurt our business. a substantial portion of our product sales are made to a limited number of customers. sales to our five largest customers during the fiscal year ended march 31, 2017 accounted for 65.5% of our net revenue, with sony and microsoft each accounting for more than 10.0% of our net revenue during the fiscal year ended march 31, 2017 . our sales are made primarily pursuant to purchase orders without long-term agreements or other commitments, and our customers may terminate their relationship with us at any time. certain of our customers may decline to carry products containing mature content. the loss of our relationships with principal customers or a decline in sales to principal customers, including as a result of a product being rated "ao" (age 18 and over) could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, if our customers are subject to pricing pressures due to deteriorating demand for our products, competitive pressure, or otherwise, such customers may pass those pricing pressures through to us, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. furthermore, our customers may also be placed into bankruptcy, become insolvent or be liquidated due to economic downturns, global contractions of credit or for other factors. bankruptcies or consolidations of certain large retail customers could seriously hurt our business, including as a result of uncollectible accounts receivable from such customers and the concentration of purchasing power among remaining large retailers. in addition, our results of operations may be adversely affected if certain of our customers who purchase on credit terms are no longer eligible to purchase on such terms due to their financial distress, which may reduce the quantity of products they demand from us. if our marketing and advertising efforts fail to resonate with consumers, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. our products are marketed worldwide through a diverse spectrum of advertising and promotional programs such as television and online advertising, social media advertising, print advertising, retail merchandising, website development and event sponsorship. our ability to sell our products and services is dependent in part on the success of these programs. if the marketing for our products and services fails to resonate with consumers, particularly during the holiday season or other key selling periods, or if advertising rates or other media placement costs increase, these factors could have a material adverse influence on our business, financial condition and operating results. 11 the interactive entertainment software industry is highly competitive. we compete for both licenses to properties and the sale of interactive entertainment software with sony and microsoft, each of which is a large developer and marketer of software for its own platforms. we also compete with game publishers, such as activision blizzard, inc. and electronic arts inc. and ubisoft entertainment s.a. as our business is dependent upon our ability to develop hit titles, which require increasing budgets for development and marketing, the availability of significant financial resources has become a major competitive factor in developing and marketing software games. some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, personnel and other resources than we do and are able to finance larger budgets for development and marketing and make higher offers to licensors and developers for commercially desirable properties. our titles also compete with other forms of entertainment, such as social media and casual games, in addition to motion pictures, television and audio and video products featuring similar themes, online computer programs and other entertainment, which may be less expensive or provide other advantages to consumers. a number of software publishers who compete with us have developed and commercialized or are currently developing online games for use by consumers over the internet. if technological advances significantly increase the availability of online games and if consumer acceptance of online gaming grows substantially, it could result in a decline in our platform-based software sales and negatively affect sales of such products. increased competition for limited shelf space and promotional support from retailers could affect the success of our business and require us to incur greater expenses to market our titles. retailers have limited shelf space and promotional resources and competition is intense among newly introduced interactive entertainment software titles for adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support. competition for retail shelf space is expected to continue to increase, which may require us to increase our marketing expenditures to maintain desirable sales levels of our titles. competitors with more extensive lines and more popular titles may have greater bargaining power with retailers. accordingly, we may not be able, or we may have to pay more than our competitors, to achieve similar levels of promotional support and shelf space. our business is partly dependent on our ability to enter into successful software development arrangements with third-parties. our success depends on our ability to continually identify and develop new titles on a timely basis. we rely on third-party software developers for the development of some of our titles. quality third-party developers are continually in high demand. software developers who have developed titles for us in the past may not be available to develop software for us in the future. due to the limited number of third-party software developers and the limited control that we exercise over them, these developers may not be able to complete titles for us on a timely basis or within acceptable quality standards, if at all. we have entered into agreements with third-parties to acquire the rights to publish and distribute interactive entertainment software as well as to use licensed intellectual properties in our titles. these agreements typically require us to make development payments, pay royalties and satisfy other conditions. our development payments may not be sufficient to permit developers to develop new software successfully, which could result in material delays and significantly increase our costs to bring particular products to market. software development costs, promotion and marketing expenses and royalties payable to software developers and third-party licensors have increased significantly in recent years and reduce potential profits derived from sales of our software. future sales of our titles may not be sufficient to recover development payments and advances to software developers and licensors, and we may not have adequate financial and other resources to satisfy our contractual commitments to such developers. if we fail to satisfy our obligations under agreements with third-party developers and licensors, the agreements may be terminated or modified in ways that are burdensome to us, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we cannot publish our titles without the approval of hardware licensors that are also our competitors. we are required to obtain licenses from sony and microsoft, which are also our competitors, to develop and publish titles for their respective hardware platforms. our existing platform licenses require that we obtain approval for the publication of new titles on a title-by-title basis. as a result, the number of titles we are able to publish for these hardware platforms, our ability to manage the timing of the release of these titles and, accordingly, our net revenue from titles for these hardware platforms, may be limited. if a licensor chooses not to renew or extend our license agreement at the end of its current term, or if a licensor were to terminate our license for any reason or does not approve one or more of our titles, we may be unable to publish that title as well as additional titles for that licensor's platform. termination of any such agreements or disapproval of titles could seriously hurt our business and prospects. we may be unable to continue to enter into license agreements for certain current generation platforms on satisfactory terms or at all. failure to enter into any such agreement could also seriously hurt our business. we rely on a limited number of channel partners some of whom influence the fee structures for online distribution of our games on their platforms. 12 we rely on a limited number of channel partners, some of whom have retained the right to change the fee structures for online distribution of both paid content and free content (including patches and corrections) that we license to them for distribution on their platforms. such channel partners' ability to set or influence royalty rates may increase costs, which could negatively affect our operating margins. we may be unable to distribute our content in a cost-effective or profitable manner through such distribution channel, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. outside of fee arrangements, our agreements with our channel partners sometimes give them significant control over other aspects of the distribution of our products and services that we develop for their platform. if our channel partners establish terms that restrict our offerings through their channels, or significantly affect the financial terms on which these products or services are offered to our customers, we may be unable to distribute our product offerings through them or be forced to do so on a materially worse financial or business terms. we may not be able to adequately adjust our cost structure in a timely fashion in response to a sudden decrease in demand. in the event of a significant decline in revenue, we may not be able to dispose of facilities, reduce personnel or make other changes to our cost structure without disruption to our operations or without significant termination and exit costs. management may not be able to implement such actions in a timely manner, if at all, to offset an immediate shortfall in revenue and profit. moreover, reducing costs may impair our ability to produce and develop software titles at sufficient levels in the future. the increasing importance of digital sales to our business exposes us to the risks of that business model, including greater competition. the proportion of our revenues derived from digital content delivery, as compared to traditional retail sales, may continue to increase. the increased importance of digital content delivery in our industry increases our potential competition, as the minimum capital needed to produce and publish a digitally delivered game is significantly less than that needed to produce and publish one that is purchased through retail distribution and is played on a game console. this will also require us to dedicate capital to developing and implementing alternative marketing strategies, which we may not do successfully. if either occurs, we may be unable to effectively market and distribute our products, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, a continuing shift to digital delivery could result in a deprioritization of our products by traditional retailers. the increasing importance of digital sales to our business could also result in increasing issues with our digital distribution process, including difficulties our distributors have with collecting from consumers and any associated rebates we would owe. we use open source software in connection with certain of our games and services, which may pose particular risks to our proprietary software, products, and services in a manner that could have a negative impact on our business. we use open source software in connection with certain of our games and the services we offer. some open source software licenses require users who distribute open source software as part of their software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software or make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. the terms of various open source licenses have not been interpreted by courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our use of the open source software. were it determined that our use was not in compliance with a particular license, we may be required to release our proprietary source code, pay damages for breach of contract, re-engineer our games, discontinue distribution in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis or take other remedial action that may divert resources away from our game development efforts, any of which could harm our business. we depend on servers and internet bandwidth to operate our games and digital services with online features. if we were to lose server capacity or lack sufficient internet bandwidth for any reason, our business could suffer. we rely on data servers, including those owned or controlled by third parties, to enable our customers to download our games and other downloadable content, and to operate our online games and other products with online functionality. events such as limited hardware failure, any broad-based catastrophic server malfunction, a significant intrusion by hackers that circumvents security measures, or a failure of disaster recovery services would likely interrupt the functionality of our games with online services and could result in a loss of sales for games and related services. an extended interruption of service could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. we expect a significant portion of our games to be on-line enabled in the future, and therefore we must project our future server needs and make advance purchases of servers or server capacity to accommodate expected business demands. if we underestimate the amount of server capacity our business requires or if our business were to grow more quickly than expected, our consumers may experience service problems, such as slow or interrupted gaming access. insufficient server capacity may result in decreased sales, a loss of our consumer base and adverse consequences to our reputation. conversely, if we overestimate the amount of server capacity required by our business, we may incur additional operating costs. 13 because of the potential importance of our online business to our revenues and results of operations, our ability to access adequate internet bandwidth and online computational resources to support our business is critical. if the price of either such resource increases, we may not be able to increase our prices or subscriber levels to compensate for such costs, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. we submit our products for rating by the entertainment software rating board ("esrb") in the united states and other voluntary or government ratings organizations in foreign countries. failure to obtain a target rating for certain of our products could negatively affect our ability to distribute and sell those games, as could the re-rating of a game for any reason. we voluntarily submit our game products to the esrb, a u.s.-based non-profit and independent ratings organization. the esrb system provides consumers with information about game content using a rating symbol that generally suggests the appropriate player age group and specific content descriptors, such as graphic violence, profanity or sexually explicit material. the esrb may impose significant penalties on game publishers for violations of its rules related to rating or marketing games, including revocation of a rating or monetary fines. other countries require voluntary or government backed ratings as prerequisites for product sales. in some instances, we may have to modify our products in order to market them under the target rating, which could delay or disrupt the release of our products. in addition, some of our titles may not be sold at all or without extensive edits in certain countries, such as germany. in the united states, if the esrb rates a game as "ao" (age 18 and older), platform licensors may not certify the game and retailers may refuse to sell it. in addition, some consumers have reacted to re-ratings or controversial game content by refusing to purchase such games, demanding refunds for games that they had already purchased, and refraining from buying other games published by us. many of our rockstar titles and certain of our 2k titles have been rated "m" (age 17 and older) by the esrb. if we are unable to obtain "m" ratings and instead receive "ao" ratings on future versions of those or similar titles as a result of changes in the esrb's ratings standards or for other reasons, including the adoption of legislation in this area, our business and prospects could be negatively affected. if any of our games are re-rated by the esrb or other foreign based ratings organizations, we could be exposed to litigation, administrative fines and penalties and other potential liabilities, and our operating results and financial condition could be significantly affected. we have implemented processes to comply with the requirements of the esrb and other ratings organizations and properly display the designated rating symbols and content descriptions. nonetheless, these processes are subject to human error, circumvention, overriding and reasonable resource constraints. if a video game we published were found to contain undisclosed pertinent content, the esrb could re-rate a game, retailers could refuse to sell it and demand that we accept the return of any unsold copies or returns from customers, and consumers could refuse to buy it or demand that we refund their money. this could have a material negative affect on our operating results and financial condition. in addition, we may be exposed to litigation, administrative fines and penalties and our reputation could be harmed, which could affect sales of other video games we sell. if any of these consequences were to occur, our business and financial performance could be significantly harmed. content policies adopted by retailers, consumer opposition and litigation could negatively affect sales of our products. retailers may decline to sell interactive entertainment software containing what they judge to be graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other content that they deem inappropriate for their businesses. if retailers decline to sell our products based upon their opinion that they contain objectionable themes, graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other generally objectionable content, or if any of our previously "m" rated series products are rated "ao," we might be required to significantly change or discontinue particular titles or series, which in the case of our best-selling grand theft auto titles could seriously affect our business. consumer advocacy groups have opposed sales of interactive entertainment software containing objectionable themes, violence or sexual material or other objectionable content by pressing for legislation in these areas and by engaging in public demonstrations and media campaigns. additionally, although lawsuits seeking damages for injuries allegedly suffered by third-parties as a result of video games have generally been unsuccessful in the courts, claims of this kind have been asserted against us from time to time and may be asserted and be successful in the future. an increase in the number of lawsuits filed by the families of victims of violence may trigger supplemental governmental scrutiny, damage our reputation, and negatively affect the sale of our products. our results of operations or reputation may be harmed as a result of offensive consumer-created content. we are subject to risks associated with the collaborative online features in our games which allow consumers to post narrative comments, in real time, that are visible to other consumers. from time to time, objectionable and offensive consumer content may be posted to a gaming or other site with online chat features or game forums which allow consumers to post comments. we may be subject to lawsuits, governmental regulation or restrictions, and consumer backlash (including decreased sales and harmed reputation), as a result of consumers posting offensive content. we may also be subject to consumer backlash from comments made in response to postings we make on social media sites such as facebook, youtube and twitter. 14 we are subject to risks and uncertainties of international trade, including fluctuations in the values of local foreign currencies against the dollar. sales in international markets, primarily in europe, have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenue. for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2017 , 43.9% of our net revenue was earned outside the united states. we are continuing to execute on our growth initiatives in asia, where our strategy is to broaden the distribution of our existing products and expand our online gaming presence, especially in china and south korea. we are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased credit risks, tariffs and duties, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, shipping delays, and international political, regulatory and economic developments, all of which can have a significant influence on our operating results. many of our international sales are made in local currencies, which could fluctuate against the dollar. while we may use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our operating results could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. we face risks from our international operations. we are subject to certain risks because of our international operations, particularly as we continue to grow our business and presence in asia, latin america and other parts of the world. changes to and compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations may increase our cost of doing business and our inability or failure to obtain required approvals could harm our international and domestic sales. trade legislation in either the united states or other countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, import/export compliance laws or other trade laws or policies, could adversely affect our ability to sell or to distribute in international markets. we incur additional legal compliance costs associated with our international operations and could become subject to legal penalties in foreign countries if we do not comply with local laws and regulations which may be substantially different from those in the united states. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by united states laws and regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, and by local laws, such as laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials. although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, including those based in or from countries where practices which violate such laws may be customary, will not take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. on june 23, 2016, the u.k. held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the e.u., commonly referred to as brexit. on march 29, 2017, the u.k. notified the european council, in accordance with article 50 of the treaty on european union, of the u.k.'s intention to withdraw from the european union. as a result, it is expected that the british government will begin negotiating the terms of the u.k.'s future relationship with the e.u. the effects of brexit will depend on any agreements the u.k. makes to retain access to the e.u. markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. the measures could potentially disrupt the markets we serve and may cause us to lose customers, distributors and employees. if the u.k. loses access to the single e.u. market and the global trade deals negotiated by the e.u., it could have a detrimental impact on our u.k. growth. such a decline could also make our doing business in europe more difficult, which could negatively affect sales to consumers of our products. without access to the single e.u. market, it may be more challenging and costly to distribute our products in europe. in addition, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the u.k. determines which e.u. laws to replace and replicate. if there are changes to u.k. immigration policy as a result of brexit, this could affect our employees and their ability to move freely between the e.u. member states for work related matters. if we are unable to protect the intellectual property relating to our software, the commercial value of our products will be adversely affected and our competitive position could be harmed. we develop proprietary software and have obtained the rights to publish and distribute software developed by third-parties. we attempt to protect our software and production techniques under patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as well as through contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and distribution. nonetheless, our software is susceptible to piracy and unauthorized copying, and third-parties may potentially exploit or misappropriate our intellectual property and proprietary information, causing significant reputational damage. unauthorized third-parties, for example, may be able to copy or to reverse engineer our software to obtain and use programming or production techniques that we regard as proprietary. well organized piracy operations have also proliferated in recent years, resulting in the ability to download pirated copies of our software over the internet. although we attempt to incorporate protective measures into our software, piracy of our products could negatively affect our future profitability. if we infringe on or are alleged to infringe on the intellectual property rights of third-parties, our business could be adversely affected. as our industry grows, we may be subject to an increasing amount of litigation that is common in the software industry based on allegations of infringement or other alleged violations of patent, copyright and/or trademarks. in addition, we believe that interactive entertainment software will increasingly become the subject of claims that such software infringes on the intellectual property 15 rights of others with both the growth of online functionality and advances in technology, game content and software graphics as games become more realistic. from time to time, we receive notices from third-parties or are named in lawsuits by third-parties alleging infringement of their proprietary rights. although we believe that our software and technologies and the software and technologies of third-party developers and publishers with whom we have contractual relations do not and will not infringe or violate proprietary rights of others, it is possible that infringement of proprietary rights of others may occur. any claims of infringement, with or without merit, could be time consuming, costly and difficult to defend. moreover, intellectual property litigation or claims could require us to discontinue the distribution of products, obtain a license or redesign our products, which could result in additional substantial costs and material delays. our software is susceptible to errors, which can harm our financial results and reputation. the technological advancements of new hardware platforms result in the development of more complex software products. as software products become more complex, the risk of undetected errors in new products increases. we may need to produce and distribute patches in order to repair such errors, which could be costly and may distract our developers from working on new products. if, despite testing, errors are found in new products or releases after shipments have been made, we may have to consider suspending distribution of defective products or offering refunds, and we could experience a loss of or delay in timely market acceptance, product returns, loss of revenue, increases in costs relating to the repair of such errors and damage to our reputation. if we acquire or invest in other businesses, intellectual properties or other assets, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired and/or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for such transactions. if appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may acquire or make investments in businesses, intellectual properties and other assets that we believe are strategic. we may not be able to identify, negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment successfully. even if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a business, intellectual property or other asset, such acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including: retaining key employees and maintaining the key business and customer relationships of the businesses we acquire; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from an acquired company or business into our organization; the possibility that the combined company would not achieve the expected benefits, including any anticipated operating and product synergies, of the acquisition as quickly as anticipated or that the costs of, or operational difficulties arising from, an acquisition would be greater than anticipated; significant acquisition-related accounting adjustments, particularly relating to an acquired company's deferred revenue, that may cause reported revenue and profits of the combined company to be lower than the sum of their stand-alone revenue and profits; significant accounting charges resulting from the completion and integration of a sizeable acquisition and increased capital expenditures, including potential impairment charges incurred to write down the carrying amount of intangible assets generated as a result of an acquisition; the possibility that significant acquisitions, when not managed cautiously, may result in the over-extension of our existing operating infrastructures, internal controls and information technology systems. the possibility that we will not discover important facts during due diligence that could have a material adverse effect on the value of the businesses we acquire, including the possibility that a change of control of a company we acquire triggers a termination of contractual or intellectual property rights important to the operation of its business; the need to integrate an acquired company's accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management and timely reporting, and the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company in an acquired company that, prior to the acquisition, lacked these controls, procedures and policies; litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risks as a result of, an acquisition, including claims from terminated employees, customers or other third-parties; and to the extent that we engage in strategic transactions outside of the united states, we face additional risks, including risks related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. future acquisitions and investments could also involve the issuance of our equity and equity-linked securities (potentially diluting our existing stockholders), the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, write-offs of goodwill, intangibles, 16 or acquired in-process technology, or other increased cash and non-cash expenses such as stock-based compensation. any of the foregoing factors could harm our financial condition or prevent us from achieving improvements in our financial condition and operating performance that could have otherwise been achieved by us on a stand-alone basis. our stockholders may not have the opportunity to review, vote on or evaluate future acquisitions or investments. our ability to acquire and maintain licenses to intellectual property, especially for sports titles, affects our revenue and profitability. competition for these licenses may make them more expensive and increase our costs. certain of our products are based on or incorporate intellectual property owned by others. for example, certain of our 2k products include rights licensed from major sports leagues and players' associations. similarly, some of our other titles are based on licenses of popular entertainment products. competition for these licenses is intense. if we are unable to maintain these licenses or obtain additional licenses on reasonable economic terms or with significant commercial value, our revenue and profitability could decline significantly. competition for these licenses may also increase the advances, guarantees and royalties that we must pay to the licensor, which could significantly increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability. in addition, on certain intellectual property licenses, we are subject to guaranteed minimum payments, royalties or standards of performance and may not be able to terminate these agreements prior to their stated expiration. if such licensed products do not generate revenues in excess of such minimum guarantees, our profitability will be adversely affected. we are subject to contractual covenants which place certain limitations on how we manage our business . our second amended and restated credit agreement (as amended, the "credit agreement") and the indentures governing our 1.00% convertible notes due 2018 issued in june 2013 (the "1.00% convertible notes") may limit our ability to take various actions, including incurring additional debt, paying dividends, repurchasing shares and acquiring or disposing of assets or businesses. in addition, we have granted a security interest in connection with certain compensatory arrangements which limits our ability to incur senior debt in excess of certain amounts. accordingly, we may be restricted from taking actions that management believes would be desirable and in the best interests of us and our stockholders. our credit agreement and the indentures also require us to satisfy specified financial and non-financial covenants. a breach of any of the covenants contained in our credit agreement could result in an event of default under the agreement and under the indentures governing our 1.00% convertible notes and would allow our lenders and noteholders to pursue various remedies, including accelerating the repayment of any outstanding indebtedness. our business and products are subject to potential legislation. the adoption of such proposed legislation could limit the retail market for our products. several proposals have been made for federal legislation to regulate our industry. such proposals seek to prohibit the sale of products containing certain content included in some of our games. if any such proposals are enacted into law, it may limit the potential market for some of our games in the united states, and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. other countries, such as germany, have adopted laws regulating content both in packaged games and those transmitted over the internet that are stricter than current united states laws. in the united states, proposals have also been made by numerous state legislators to regulate and prohibit the sale of interactive entertainment software products containing certain types of violent or sexual content to under 17 or 18 audiences, such as the state of california's "ultraviolent video games law" that sought to ban the sale or rental of violent video games to minors. while such legislation to date has been enjoined by industry and retail groups or been found unconstitutional, the adoption into law of such legislation in federal and/or in state jurisdictions in which we do significant business could severely limit the retail market for some of our games. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill becomes impaired. we are required under u.s. generally accepted accounting principles to review our goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating a requirement to reevaluate whether our goodwill continues to be recoverable, include a significant decline in stock price and market capitalization, slower growth rates in our industry or other materially adverse events. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill is determined. this may adversely affect our operating results. our reported financial results could be adversely affected by the application of existing or future accounting standards to our business as it evolves. our reported financial results are affected by the accounting policies promulgated by the sec and national accounting standards bodies and the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies. for example, standards regarding revenue recognition have and could further significantly affect the way we account for revenue related to our products and services. we expect that an increasing number of our games will be online-enabled in the future and that we could be required to recognize the related revenues over a period of time rather than at the time of sale. further, as we increase our downloadable content and 17 add new features to our online services, our estimate of the service period may change and we could be required to recognize revenues, and defer related costs, over a shorter or longer period of time than we initially allocated. as we enhance, expand and diversify our business and product offerings, the application of existing or future financial accounting standards, particularly those relating to the way we account for revenue, could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results although not necessarily on our cash flows. risks relating to our common stock for purposes of this section "risks relating to our common stock," references to "the company," "we," "our," and "us" refer only to take-two interactive software, inc. and not to its subsidiaries. additional issuances or sales of equity securities by us would dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. we may issue equity or equity-based securities (such as our 1.00% convertible notes) in the future in connection with acquisitions or strategic transactions, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, including through repayment of outstanding debt, to fund expansion of our operations or for other purposes. to the extent we issue additional equity securities, including upon conversion of our outstanding 1.00% convertible notes, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders would be reduced. the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect its price. the sale or the availability for sale of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause the price of our common stock to decline. the issuance of shares of our common stock upon conversion of our 1.00% convertible notes could also adversely affect the price of our common stock. there is no guarantee that we will do additional share repurchases in the future. the share repurchase program authorized by the board of directors, which authorized the repurchase of up to 14,217,683 shares of our common stock and had 9,046,353 shares available for repurchase as of march 31, 2017 , does not obligate the company to make any purchases at any specific time or situation. discontinuing repurchases could adversely affect the price of the company's common stock. the program may be suspended or discontinued at any time for any reason. our stock price has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate significantly. the market price of our common stock historically has been, and we expect will continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations. these fluctuations may be due to factors specific to us including those discussed in the risk factors in this section as well as others not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material, to changes in securities analysts' earnings estimates or ratings, to our results or future financial guidance falling below our expectations and analysts' and investors' expectations, to factors affecting the computer, software, entertainment, media or electronics industries, or to national or international economic conditions. stock markets, in general, have experienced over the years, and continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected market prices for companies such as ours and that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. delaware law, our charter documents and provisions of our debt agreements may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline. we are a delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third-party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. our board of directors has the power, without stockholder approval, to adopt a stockholder rights plan and/or to designate the terms of one or more series of preferred stock and issue shares of preferred stock. in addition, we may under certain circumstances involving a change of control, be obligated to repurchase all or a portion of our 1.00% convertible notes and any potential acquirer would be required to assume our obligations related to any outstanding 1.00% convertible notes. we or any possible acquirer may not have available financial resources necessary to repurchase those notes. the ability of our board of directors to create and issue a new series of preferred stock and certain provisions of delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the indenture governing our notes could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market price of our common stock and the value of any outstanding notes. our ability to use net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards to reduce future years' taxes could be substantially limited under internal revenue code sections 382 and 383 if we experience an ownership change as defined in the internal revenue code section 382. 18 section 382 of the internal revenue code contains rules that limit the ability of a company to use its net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards in years after an ownership change, which is generally defined as any change in ownership of more than 50% of its stock over a three-year testing period. these rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes among stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of the stock of a company and/or any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by the company. if, as a result of future transactions involving our common stock, including purchases or sales of stock by 5% stockholders, we undergo cumulative ownership changes which exceed 50% over the testing period, our ability to use our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards would be subject to additional limitations under sections 382 and 383. generally, if an ownership change occurs, the annual taxable income limitation on the use of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards is equal to the product of the applicable long-term tax exempt rate and the value of the company's stock immediately before the ownership change. depending on the resulting limitation, a portion of our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards could expire before we would be able to use them. our inability to fully utilize our net operating losses to reduce tax liability in the future could have a material and negative affect on our future financial position and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 43 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential loss arising from fluctuations in market rates and prices. our market risk exposures primarily include fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rate risk our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates relates primarily to our short-term investment portfolio and variable rate debt under the credit agreement. we seek to manage our interest rate risk by maintaining a short-term investment portfolio that includes corporate bonds with high credit quality and maturities less than two years. since short-term investments mature relatively quickly and can be reinvested at the then-current market rates, interest income on a portfolio consisting of short-term securities is more subject to market fluctuations than a portfolio of longer term maturities. however, the fair value of a short-term portfolio is less sensitive to market fluctuations than a portfolio of longer term securities. we do not currently use derivative financial instruments in our short-term investment portfolio. our investments are held for purposes other than trading. as of march 31, 2017 , we had $448.9 million of short-term investments which included $273.2 million of available-for-sale securities. the available-for-sale securities were recorded at fair market value with unrealized gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, in stockholders' equity. we also had $943.4 million of cash and cash equivalents that are comprised primarily of money market funds and bank-time deposits. we determined that, based on the composition of our investment portfolio, there was no material interest rate risk exposure to our consolidated financial statements or liquidity as of march 31, 2017 . historically, fluctuations in interest rates have not had a significant effect on our operating results. under our credit agreement, outstanding balances bear interest at our election of (a) 0.25% to 0.75% above a certain base rate ( 4.25% at march 31, 2017 ), or (b) 1.25% to 1.75% above the libor rate (approximately 2.23% at march 31, 2017 ), with the margin rate subject to the achievement of certain average liquidity levels. changes in market rates may affect our future interest expense if there is an outstanding balance on our line of credit. at march 31, 2017 , there were no outstanding borrowings under our credit agreement. the 1.00% convertible notes pay interest semi-annually at a fixed rate of 1.00% per annum, and we expect that there will be no fluctuation related to the 1.00% convertible notes affecting our cash component of interest expense. for additional details on our convertible notes see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. 43 foreign currency exchange rate risk we transact business in foreign currencies and are exposed to risks resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. accounts relating to foreign operations are translated into united states dollars using prevailing exchange rates at the relevant period end. translation adjustments are included as a separate component of stockholders' equity. for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2017 and 2016 , our foreign currency translation adjustment loss was $9.1 million and $7.4 million , respectively. we recognized a foreign currency exchange transaction gain of $5.0 million for fiscal year ended march 31, 2017 , and losses of $1.4 million and $2.1 million million for the fiscal years ended march 31, 2016 , and 2015 respectively, in interest and other, net in our consolidated statements of operations. balance sheet hedging activities we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with non-functional currency denominated cash balances and inter-company funding loans, non-functional currency denominated accounts receivable and non-functional currency denominated accounts payable. these transactions are not designated as hedging instruments and are accounted for as derivatives whereby the fair value of the contracts is reported as either assets or liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, and gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair value are reported in interest and other, net, in our consolidated statements of operations. we do not enter into derivative financial contracts for speculative or trading purposes. at march 31, 2017 , we had $9.2 million of forward contracts outstanding to buy foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars and $177.5 million of forward contracts outstanding to sell foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars all of which have maturities of less than one year. at march 31, 2016 , we had $2.4 million of forward contracts outstanding to buy foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars and $54.5 million of forward contracts outstanding to sell foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars all of which have maturities of less than one year. for the fiscal years ended march 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , we recorded gains of $7.2 million , $0.1 million , and $18.5 million , respectively, related to foreign currency forward contracts in interest and other, net on the consolidated statements of operations. as of march 31, 2017 and 2016 the fair value of these outstanding forward contracts was a loss of $0.4 million and $0.1 million , respectively, and is included in accrued and other current liabilities. the fair value of these outstanding forward contracts is estimated based on the prevailing exchange rates of the various hedged currencies as of the end of the period. our hedging programs are designed to reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the effect of currency exchange rate movements. we believe the counterparties to these foreign currency forward contracts are credit-worthy multinational commercial banks and that the risk of counterparty nonperformance is not material. notwithstanding our efforts to mitigate some foreign currency exchange rate risks, there can be no assurance that our hedging activities will adequately protect us against the risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations. for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2017 , 43.9% of our revenue was generated outside the united states. using sensitivity analysis, a hypothetical 10% increase in the value of the u.s. dollar against all currencies would decrease revenues by 4.4% , while a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of the u.s. dollar against all currencies would increase revenues by 4.4% . in the opinion of management, a substantial portion of this fluctuation would be offset by cost of goods sold and operating expenses incurred in local currency.risk factors 7 risk factors our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. because of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other factors affecting our operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance and our business and financial performance could be harmed and the market value of our securities could decline. risks relating to our business we are dependent on the future success of our grand theft auto products and we must continue to publish "hit" titles or sequels to such "hit" titles in order to compete successfully in our industry. grand theft auto and certain of our other titles are "hit" products and have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our revenue. grand theft auto products contributed 39.7% of the company's net revenue for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2018 and the five best-selling franchises (including grand theft auto ), which may change year over year, in the aggregate accounted for 90.6% of the company's net revenue for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2018 . if we fail to continue to develop and sell new commercially successful "hit" titles or sequels to such "hit" titles or experience any delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our "hit" titles or their sequels, our revenue and profits may decrease substantially and we may incur losses. in addition, competition in our industry is intense and a relatively small number of hit titles account for a large portion of total revenue in our industry. hit products offered by our competitors may take a larger share of consumer spending than we anticipate, which could cause revenue generated from our products to fall below our expectations. if our competitors develop more successful products or services at lower price points or based on payment models perceived as offering better value, or if we do not continue to develop consistently high quality and well-received products and services, our revenue and profitability may decline. in addition, both the online and mobile games marketplaces are characterized by frequent product introductions, relatively low barriers to entry, and new and evolving business methods, technologies and platforms for development. widespread consumer adoption of these new platforms for games and other technological advances in online or mobile game offerings could negatively affect our sales of console and traditional pc products before we have an opportunity to develop profitable businesses in such markets. we are subject to product development risks which could result in delays and additional costs, and we must adapt to changes in software technologies. we depend on our internal development studios and third-party software developers to develop new interactive entertainment software within anticipated release schedules and cost projections. the development cycle for new titles generally ranges from 12 months for annual sports releases, to multiple years for certain of our top-selling titles. therefore our development costs can be substantial. if we or our third party developers experience unanticipated development delays, financial difficulties or additional costs, we may not be able to release titles according to our schedule and at budgeted costs. there can be no assurance that our products will be sufficiently successful so that we can recoup these costs or make a profit on these products. additionally, in order to stay competitive, our internal development studios must anticipate and adapt to rapid technological changes affecting software development. any inability to respond to technological advances and implement new technologies could render our products obsolete or less marketable. further, the failure to pursue the development of new technology, platforms, or business models that obtain meaningful commercial success in a timely manner may negatively affect our business, resulting in increased production costs and more strenuous competition. the inability of our products to achieve significant market acceptance, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our products may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. new products may not achieve significant market acceptance, generate sufficient sales or be introduced in a timely manner to permit us to recover development, manufacturing and marketing costs associated with these products. the life cycle of a title generally involves a relatively high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. because sales associated with an initial product launch generally constitute a high percentage of the total sales associated with the life of a product, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of one or more new products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results and cause our operating results to be materially different from our expectations. 7 our business is subject to our ability to develop commercially successful products for the current video game platforms. we derive most of our revenue from the sale of products made for video game platforms manufactured by third parties, such as sony's ps4 and ps3, microsoft's xbox one and xbox 360, and the nintendo switch, which comprised 81.6% of the company's net revenue by product platform for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2018 . the success of our business is subject to the continued popularity of these platforms and our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. we may experience declines or fluctuations in the recurring portion of our business. our business model includes revenue that we deem recurring in nature, such as revenue from our annualized titles and associated services, and ongoing mobile businesses. while we have been able to forecast the revenue from these areas of our business with greater certainty than for new offerings, we cannot provide assurances that consumers will purchase these games and services on a consistent basis. furthermore, we may cease to offer games and services that we previously had deemed to be recurring in nature. consumer purchases of our games and services may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our games and services, our ability to improve and innovate our annualized titles, our ability to adapt our games and services to new platforms, outages and disruptions of online services, the games and services offered by our competitors, our marketing and advertising efforts or declines in consumer activity generally as a result of economic downturns, among others. any decline or fluctuation in the recurring portion of our business may have a negative impact on our financial and operating results. connectivity issues could affect our ability to sell and provide online services for our products and could affect our profitability. we rely upon third-party digital delivery platforms, such as microsoft's xbox live, playstation network, steam and other third-party service providers, to provide connectivity from the consumer to our digital products and our online services. connectivity issues could prevent customers from accessing this content and our ability to successfully market and sell our products could be adversely affected. in addition, we could experience similar issues related to services we host on our internal servers. such issues also could affect our ability to provide online services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. our business could be adversely affected if our consumer data protection measures are not seen as adequate or there are breaches of our security measures or unintended disclosures of our consumer data. we are collecting and storing consumer information, including personal information. we take measures to protect our consumer data from unauthorized access or disclosure. it is possible that our security controls over consumer data may not prevent the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information. in addition, due to the high profile nature of our products, we may draw a disproportionately higher amount of attention and attempts to breach our security controls than companies with lower profile products. a security breach that leads to disclosure of consumer account information (including personally identifiable information) could harm our reputation, compel us to comply with disparate breach notification laws in various jurisdictions and otherwise subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. a resulting perception that our products or services do not adequately protect the privacy of personal information could result in a loss of current or potential consumers and business partners. in addition, if any of our business partners experience a security breach that leads to disclosure of consumer account information, our reputation could be harmed, resulting in loss of revenue. in addition, certain of our products are online enabled. the ability of our products to offer online functionality, and our ability to offer content through a video game platform's digital distribution channel, is dependent upon the continued operation and security of such platform's online network. these third party networks, as well as our own internal systems and websites, and the security measures related thereto may be breached as a result of third-party action, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and result in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our customers' data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information, or our information technology systems. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. if an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, we may lose business, suffer irreparable damage to our reputation, and/or incur significant costs and expenses relating to the investigation and possible litigation of claims relating to such event. the laws and regulations concerning data privacy and certain other aspects of our business are continually evolving. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could harm our business. we are subject to certain privacy and data protection laws, including those in the united states. certain activities related to e.u. customers are registered with our u.k. data controller. the u.s. children's online privacy protection act also regulates the collection, use, and disclosure of personal information from children under 13 years of age. failure to comply with privacy laws, 8 data protection laws, or age restrictions may increase our costs, subject us to expensive and distracting government investigations, and result in substantial fines. privacy and data protection laws are rapidly changing and likely will continue to do so for the foreseeable future, which could have an impact on our approach to operating and marketing our games. for example, the court of justice of the european union's decision to invalidate the e.u.-u.s. safe harbor regime that legitimized the transfer of certain personal data from the e.u. to the u.s. was a material change to laws on data privacy applicable to our business. in addition, after four years of preparation and debate, the e.u. parliament approved the general data protection regulation ("gdpr") on april 14, 2016. gdpr will become effective on may 25, 2018, and will replace the existing data protection directive 95/46/ec. the u.s. government, including the federal trade commission and the department of commerce, also continue to review the need for greater or different regulation over the collection of personal information and information about consumer behavior on the internet and on mobile devices. various government and consumer agencies worldwide have also called for new regulation and changes in industry practices. player use of our games is subject to our privacy policy, end user license agreements, and terms of service. if we fail to comply with our posted privacy policy, eulas, or terms of service, or if we fail to comply with existing privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations, it could result in proceedings or litigation against us by governmental authorities or others, which could result in fines or judgments against us, damage our reputation, affect our financial condition and harm our business. if regulators, the media, or consumers raise any concerns about our privacy and data protection or consumer protection practices, even if unfounded, this could also result in fines or judgments against us, damage our reputation, negatively affect our financial condition, and damage our business. it is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted or construed to apply to us in the united states and elsewhere that could restrict the interactive entertainment industry, including player privacy, advertising, taxation, content suitability, copyright, distribution and antitrust. furthermore, the growth and development of electronic commerce and virtual goods may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on companies such as ours conducting business through digital sales. any such changes would require us to devote legal and other resources to address such regulation. for example, existing laws or new laws regarding the regulation of currency, banking institutions and unclaimed property may be interpreted to cover virtual currency or virtual goods. if that were to occur we may be required to seek licenses, authorizations or approvals from relevant regulators, the granting of which may be dependent on us meeting certain capital and other requirements and we may be subject to additional regulation and oversight, all of which could significantly increase our operating costs. changes in current laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws and regulations in the united states or elsewhere regarding these activities may lessen the growth of the interactive entertainment industry and impair our business, financial condition, and operating results. although we have structured and operate our skill tournaments with applicable laws in mind, including any applicable laws relating to gambling, and believe that playing these games does not constitute gambling, our skill tournaments could in the future become subject to gambling-related rules and regulations and expose us to civil and criminal penalties. we also sometimes offer consumers of our online and casual games various types of contests and promotional opportunities. we are subject to laws in a number of jurisdictions concerning the operation and offering of such activities and games, many of which are still evolving and could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business. further, some of our online games and other services include random digital item mechanics, which may become subject to regulations in various jurisdictions. if these were to occur, we might be required to seek licenses, authorizations, or approvals from relevant regulators, the granting of which may be dependent on us meeting certain capital and other requirements, and we may be subject to additional regulation and oversight, such as reporting to regulators, all of which could significantly increase our operating costs. changes in current laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws and regulations in the united states, europe, or elsewhere regarding these activities may lessen the growth of casual game services and impair our business. security breaches involving the source code for our products or other sensitive and proprietary information could adversely affect our business. we securely store the source code for our interactive entertainment software products as it is created. a breach, whether physical, electronic or otherwise, of the systems on which such source code and other sensitive data are stored could lead to damage or piracy of our software. in addition, certain parties with whom we do business are given access to our sensitive and proprietary information in order to provide services and support our team. these third parties may misappropriate our information and engage in unauthorized use of it. if we are subject to data security breaches, we may have a loss in sales or increased costs arising from the restoration or implementation of additional security measures which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. any theft and/or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an event could adversely affect our competitive position, reputation, brand, and future sales of our products. our business could be subject to significant disruption, and we could suffer monetary and other losses and reputational harm, in the event of such incidents and claims. 9 we rely on complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business. any significant system or network disruption could have a negative impact on our business. we rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks, some of which are within take-two and some of which are managed and/or hosted by third-party providers. all information technology systems and networks are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including but not limited to cyber-attacks, malicious software, security breach, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. we may also face sophisticated attacks, referred to as advanced persistent threats, which are cyber-attacks aimed at compromising our intellectual property and other commercially-sensitive information, such as the source code and game assets for our software or confidential customer or employee information, which remain undetected for prolonged periods of time. information technology system or network failure or security breach could negatively affect our business continuity, operations and financial results. these risks extend to the networks and e-commerce sites of console platform providers and other partners who sell and host our content online. we may incur additional costs to remedy the damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches. successful exploitation of our systems can have other negative effects upon the products, services and user experience we offer. in particular, the virtual economies that we have established in many of our games are subject to abuse, exploitation and other forms of fraudulent activity that can negatively affect our business. virtual economies involve the use of virtual currency and/or virtual assets that can be used or redeemed by a player within a particular game or service. the abuse or exploitation of our virtual economies include the illegitimate generation and sale of virtual items in black markets. these kinds of activities and the steps that we take to address these issues may result in a loss of anticipated revenue, interfere with players' enjoyment of a balanced game environment and cause reputational harm. our efforts to expand into new products and services may subject us to additional risks. in recent years, we have invested in emerging opportunities in interactive entertainment played on mobile platforms, including tablets and smartphones, and online platforms, including social networks. we have also grown our product offerings that are available through digital download, including virtual currency, through our existing franchises such as grant theft auto and nba 2k as well as through product offerings by newly acquired social point and other mobile product offerings. we are actively investing to capitalize on these trends in order to diversify our product mix, reduce our operating risks, and increase our revenue. there are risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. there is no assurance that we will be able to attract a sufficiently large number of customers or recover costs incurred for developing and marketing any of these new products or services. for example, we may offer games that do not attract sufficient purchases of virtual currency, which may cause our investments into this product space, such as through our acquisition of social point, to fail to realize the expected benefits. external factors, such as competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also have an impact on the successful implementation of any new products or services. failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we depend on our key management and product development personnel. our continued success will depend to a significant extent on our senior management team and our relationship with zelnickmedia corporation ("zelnickmedia"). our executive chairman/chief executive officer and president are partners of zelnickmedia. we are also highly dependent on the expertise, skills and knowledge of certain of our rockstar employees and other key creative personnel responsible for content creation and development of our grand theft auto titles and titles based on other brands. we may not be able to continue to retain these personnel at current compensation levels, or at all. the loss of the services of our executive officers, zelnickmedia, our key rockstar employees or other key creative personnel could significantly harm our business. in addition, if one or more key employees were to join a competitor or form a competing company, we may lose additional personnel, experience material interruptions in product development, delays in bringing products to market and difficulties in our relationships with licensors, suppliers and customers, which would significantly harm our business. failure to continue to attract and retain other qualified management and creative personnel could adversely affect our business and prospects. declines in consumer spending and other adverse changes in the economy could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. most of our products involve discretionary spending on the part of consumers. we believe that consumer spending is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. this makes our products particularly sensitive to general economic conditions and economic cycles as consumers are generally more willing to make discretionary purchases, including purchases of products like ours, during periods in which favorable economic conditions prevail. adverse economic conditions such as a prolonged u.s. or international general economic downturn, including periods of increased inflation, unemployment levels, tax rates, interest rates, energy prices or declining consumer confidence could also reduce consumer spending. 10 reduced consumer spending has and may in the future continue to result in reduced demand for our products and may also require increased selling and promotional expenses, which has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, during periods of relative economic weakness, our consolidated credit risk, reflecting our counterparty dealings with distributors, customers, capital providers and others may increase, perhaps materially so. furthermore, uncertainty and adverse changes in the economy could also increase the risk of material losses on our investments, increase costs associated with developing and publishing our products, increase the cost and availability of sources of financing, and increase our exposure to material losses from bad debts, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. if economic conditions worsen, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act (herein referred to as the "act ). the act makes broad and complex changes to the u.s. tax code that could materially affect us. the act reduces the u.s. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% , effective january 1, 2018 and requires companies to pay a one-time transition tax on the previously untaxed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries. in addition, the act makes other changes that may affect us, beginning april 1, 2018. these changes include but are not limited to (1) a base erosion anti-abuse tax (beat), which is a new minimum tax, (2) generally eliminating u.s. federal income taxes on dividends from foreign subsidiaries, (3) a new provision that taxes global intangible low-taxed income (gilti), (4) the repeal of the domestic production activity deduction, and (5) other base broadening provisions. we are currently evaluating the potential impact of the act on our tax provision. it is possible that these changes could have an adverse impact on our effective tax rate, tax payments, financial condition, or results of operations. the new tax law is complex and additional interpretative guidance may be issued that could affect interpretations and assumptions we have made, as well as actions we may take as a result of the act. in addition, numerous countries are evaluating their existing tax laws due in part to recommendations made by the organization for economic co-operation and development's ( oecd's ) base erosion and profit shifting ( beps ) project. although we cannot predict whether, or in what form, any legislation based on such proposals may be adopted by the countries in which we do business, future tax reform based on such proposals may increase the amount of taxes we pay and adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. we are a multinational corporation with operations in the u.s. and various other jurisdictions around the world. accordingly, we are subject to tax in the u.s. and in various other jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes, and, in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are required to estimate future taxes. although we currently believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the estimation process is inherently uncertain, and such estimates are not binding on tax authorities. further, our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including changes in the business, including the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax elections, and changes in applicable tax laws. additionally, tax determinations are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities, and developments in those audits could adversely affect our income tax provision. should the ultimate tax liability exceed estimates, our income tax provision and net income or loss could be materially affected. historically, we recorded a valuation allowance against most of our u.s. deferred tax assets. we expect to provide a valuation allowance on future u.s. tax benefits until we can sustain a level of profitability or until other significant positive evidence arises that suggests that these benefits are more likely than not to be realized. we earn a significant amount of our operating income and continue to hold a significant portion of our cash outside the u.s. we are reviewing whether the act will affect our existing intention to reinvest indefinitely earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. the act imposes a one-time transition tax on the previously untaxed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries and other significant changes that affect how u.s. companies are taxed on foreign earnings. these changes may result in higher effective tax rates for us. we are also required to pay taxes other than income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions. we are regularly under examination by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations, changes in our business or changes in applicable tax law or interpretations will not have an adverse effect on our net income or loss and financial condition. unclaimed property audits by governmental authorities could adversely affect our operating results. we are subject to unclaimed property (escheat) laws which require us to turn over to certain government authorities the property of others held by us that has been unclaimed for a specified period of time. we are subject to audit by individual u.s. states with regard to our escheatment practices. the legislation and regulations related to unclaimed property matters tend to be complex and subject to varying interpretations by both government authorities and taxpayers. although management believes that the positions 11 we have taken are reasonable, various taxing authorities may challenge certain of the positions we have taken, which may also potentially result in additional liabilities for unclaimed property and interest in excess of accrued liabilities. our positions are reviewed as events occur such as the availability of new information, the lapsing of applicable statutes of limitations, the measurement of additional estimated liability based on current calculations or the rendering of relevant court decisions. an unfavorable resolution of assessments by a governmental authority could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows in future periods. our quarterly operating results are dependent on the release of "hit" titles and are highly seasonal which may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate significantly. we have experienced and may continue to experience wide fluctuations in quarterly operating results. the release of a "hit" title typically leads to a high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. in addition, the interactive entertainment industry is highly seasonal, with sales typically higher during the fourth calendar quarter, due primarily to increased demand for games during the holiday season. demand for and sales of titles in our nba 2k series are also seasonal in that they are typically released just prior to the start of the nba season. if a key event or sports season to which our product release schedule is tied were to be delayed or cancelled, our sales might also suffer disproportionately. our failure or inability to produce "hit" titles or introduce products on a timely basis to meet seasonal fluctuations in demand could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. the uncertainties associated with software development, manufacturing lead times, production delays and the approval process for products by hardware manufacturers and other licensors make it difficult to predict the quarter in which our products will ship and therefore may cause us to fail to meet financial expectations. price protection granted to our customers and returns of our published titles by our customers may adversely affect our operating results. we are exposed to the risk of price protection and product returns with respect to our customers. our distribution arrangements with customers generally do not give them the right to return titles to us or to cancel firm orders. however, we sometimes accept product returns from our distribution customers for stock balancing and negotiate accommodations for customers, which include credits and returns, when demand for specific products falls below expectations. we grant price protection and accept returns in connection with our publishing arrangements and revenue is recognized after deducting estimated price protection and reserves for returns. while we believe that we can reliably estimate future price protection and returns, if price protection and return rates for our products exceed our reserves, our revenue could decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. increased sales of used video game products could lower our sales. certain of our larger customers sell used video games, which are generally priced lower than new video games. if our customers increase their sales of used video games, it could negatively affect our sales of new video games and have an adverse influence on our business, financial condition and operating results. a limited number of customers account for a significant portion of our sales. the loss of a principal customer or other significant business relationship could seriously hurt our business. a substantial portion of our product sales are made to a limited number of customers. sales to our five largest customers during the fiscal year ended march 31, 2018 accounted for 70.7% of our net revenue, with sony and microsoft each accounting for more than 10.0% of our net revenue during the fiscal year ended march 31, 2018 . our sales are made primarily pursuant to purchase orders without long-term agreements or other commitments, and our customers may terminate their relationship with us at any time. certain of our customers may decline to carry products containing mature content. the loss of our relationships with principal customers or a decline in sales to principal customers, including as a result of a product being rated "ao" (age 18 and over) could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, if our customers are subject to pricing pressures due to deteriorating demand for our products, competitive pressure, or otherwise, such customers may pass those pricing pressures through to us, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. furthermore, our customers may also be placed into bankruptcy, become insolvent or be liquidated due to economic downturns, global contractions of credit or for other factors. bankruptcies or consolidations of certain large retail customers could seriously hurt our business, including as a result of uncollectible accounts receivable from such customers and the concentration of purchasing power among remaining large retailers. in addition, our results of operations may be adversely affected if certain of our customers who purchase on credit terms are no longer eligible to purchase on such terms due to their financial distress, which may reduce the quantity of products they demand from us. if our marketing and advertising efforts fail to resonate with consumers, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. 12 our products are marketed worldwide through a diverse spectrum of advertising and promotional programs such as television and online advertising, social media advertising, print advertising, retail merchandising, website development and event sponsorship. our ability to sell our products and services is dependent in part on the success of these programs. if the marketing for our products and services fails to resonate with consumers, particularly during the holiday season or other key selling periods, or if advertising rates or other media placement costs increase, these factors could have a material adverse influence on our business, financial condition and operating results. the interactive entertainment software industry is highly competitive. we compete for both licenses to properties and the sale of interactive entertainment software with sony and microsoft, each of which is a large developer and marketer of software for its own platforms. we also compete with game publishers, such as activision blizzard, inc. and electronic arts inc. and ubisoft entertainment s.a. as our business is dependent upon our ability to develop hit titles, which require increasing budgets for development and marketing, the availability of significant financial resources has become a major competitive factor in developing and marketing software games. some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, personnel and other resources than we do and are able to finance larger budgets for development and marketing and make higher offers to licensors and developers for commercially desirable properties. our titles also compete with other forms of entertainment, such as social media and casual games, in addition to motion pictures, television and audio and video products featuring similar themes, online computer programs and other entertainment, which may be less expensive or provide other advantages to consumers. a number of software publishers who compete with us have developed and commercialized or are currently developing online games for use by consumers over the internet. if technological advances significantly increase the availability of online games and if consumer acceptance of online gaming grows substantially, it could result in a decline in our platform-based software sales and negatively affect sales of such products. increased competition for limited shelf space and promotional support from retailers could affect the success of our business and require us to incur greater expenses to market our titles. while digital sales are increasingly important to our business, for physical sales, retailers have limited shelf space and promotional resources and competition is intense among newly introduced interactive entertainment software titles for adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support. competition for retail shelf space is expected to continue to increase, which may require us to increase our marketing expenditures to maintain desirable sales levels of our titles. competitors with more extensive lines and more popular titles may have greater bargaining power with retailers. accordingly, we may not be able, or we may have to pay more than our competitors, to achieve similar levels of promotional support and shelf space. the increasing importance of digital sales to our business exposes us to the risks of that business model, including greater competition. the proportion of our revenues derived from digital content delivery, as compared to traditional retail sales, may continue to increase. the increased importance of digital content delivery in our industry increases our potential competition, as the minimum capital needed to produce and publish a digitally delivered game is significantly less than that needed to produce and publish one that is purchased through retail distribution and is played on a game console. this will also require us to dedicate capital to developing and implementing alternative marketing strategies, which we may not do successfully. if either occurs, we may be unable to effectively market and distribute our products, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, a continuing shift to digital delivery could result in a deprioritization of our products by traditional retailers. the increasing importance of digital sales to our business could also result in increasing issues with our digital distribution process, including difficulties our distributors have with collecting from consumers and any associated rebates we would owe. our business is partly dependent on our ability to enter into successful software development arrangements with third-parties. our success depends on our ability to continually identify and develop new titles on a timely basis. we rely on third-party software developers for the development of some of our titles. quality third-party developers are continually in high demand. software developers who have developed titles for us in the past may not be available to develop software for us in the future. due to the limited number of third-party software developers and the limited control that we exercise over them, these developers may not be able to complete titles for us on a timely basis or within acceptable quality standards, if at all. we have entered into agreements with third-parties to acquire the rights to publish and distribute interactive entertainment software as well as to use licensed intellectual properties in our titles. these agreements typically require us to make development payments, pay royalties and satisfy other conditions. our development payments may not be sufficient to permit developers to develop new software successfully, which could result in material delays and significantly increase our costs to bring particular products to market. software development costs, promotion and marketing expenses and royalties payable to software developers and third-party licensors have increased significantly in recent years and reduce potential profits derived from sales of our software. future sales of our titles may not be sufficient to recover development payments and advances to software developers and licensors, and we may not have 13 adequate financial and other resources to satisfy our contractual commitments to such developers. if we fail to satisfy our obligations under agreements with third-party developers and licensors, the agreements may be terminated or modified in ways that are burdensome to us, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we cannot publish our titles without the approval of hardware licensors that are also our competitors. we are required to obtain licenses from certain of our competitors, including sony and microsoft, to develop and publish titles for their respective hardware platforms. our existing platform licenses require that we obtain approval for the publication of new titles on a title-by-title basis. as a result, the number of titles we are able to publish for these hardware platforms, our ability to manage the timing of the release of these titles and, accordingly, our net revenue from titles for these hardware platforms, may be limited. if a licensor chooses not to renew or extend our license agreement at the end of its current term, or if a licensor were to terminate our license for any reason or does not approve one or more of our titles, we may be unable to publish that title as well as additional titles for that licensor's platform. termination of any such agreements or disapproval of titles could seriously hurt our business and prospects. we may be unable to continue to enter into license agreements for certain current generation platforms on satisfactory terms or at all. failure to enter into any such agreement could also seriously hurt our business. we rely on a limited number of channel partners some of whom influence the fee structures for online distribution of our games on their platforms. we rely on a limited number of channel partners, some of whom have retained the right to change the fee structures for online distribution of both paid content and free content (including patches and corrections) that we license to them for distribution on their platforms. such channel partners' ability to set or influence royalty rates may increase costs, which could negatively affect our operating margins. we may be unable to distribute our content in a cost-effective or profitable manner through such distribution channel, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. outside of fee arrangements, our agreements with our channel partners sometimes give them significant control over other aspects of the distribution of our products and services that we develop for their platform. if our channel partners establish terms that restrict our offerings through their channels, or significantly affect the financial terms on which these products or services are offered to our customers, we may be unable to distribute our product offerings through them or be forced to do so on a materially worse financial or business terms. we may not be able to adequately adjust our cost structure in a timely fashion in response to a sudden decrease in demand. in the event of a significant decline in revenue, we may not be able to dispose of facilities, reduce personnel or make other changes to our cost structure without disruption to our operations or without significant termination and exit costs. management may not be able to implement such actions in a timely manner, if at all, to offset an immediate shortfall in revenue and profit. moreover, reducing costs may impair our ability to produce and develop software titles at sufficient levels in the future. we use open source software in connection with certain of our games and services, which may pose particular risks to our proprietary software, products, and services in a manner that could have a negative impact on our business. we use open source software in connection with certain of our games and the services we offer. some open source software licenses require users who distribute open source software as part of their software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software or make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. the terms of various open source licenses have not been interpreted by courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our use of the open source software. were it determined that our use was not in compliance with a particular license, we may be required to release our proprietary source code, pay damages for breach of contract, re-engineer our games, discontinue distribution in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis or take other remedial action that may divert resources away from our game development efforts, any of which could harm our business. we depend on servers and internet bandwidth to operate our games and digital services with online features. if we were to lose server capacity or lack sufficient internet bandwidth for any reason, our business could suffer. we rely on data servers, including those owned or controlled by third parties, to enable our customers to download our games and other downloadable content, and to operate our online games and other products with online functionality. events such as limited hardware failure, any broad-based catastrophic server malfunction, a significant intrusion by hackers that circumvents security measures, or a failure of disaster recovery services would likely interrupt the functionality of our games with online services and could result in a loss of sales for games and related services. an extended interruption of service could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. we expect a significant portion of our games to be on-line enabled in the future, and therefore we must project our future server needs and make advance purchases of servers or server capacity to accommodate expected business demands. if we underestimate 14 the amount of server capacity our business requires or if our business were to grow more quickly than expected, our consumers may experience service problems, such as slow or interrupted gaming access. insufficient server capacity may result in decreased sales, a loss of our consumer base and adverse consequences to our reputation. conversely, if we overestimate the amount of server capacity required by our business, we may incur additional operating costs. because of the potential importance of our online business to our revenues and results of operations, our ability to access adequate internet bandwidth and online computational resources to support our business is critical. if the price of either such resource increases, we may not be able to increase our prices or subscriber levels to compensate for such costs, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. we submit our products for rating by the entertainment software rating board ("esrb") in the united states and other voluntary or government ratings organizations in foreign countries. failure to obtain a target rating for certain of our products could negatively affect our ability to distribute and sell those games, as could the re-rating of a game for any reason. we voluntarily submit our game products to the esrb, a u.s.-based non-profit and independent ratings organization. the esrb system provides consumers with information about game content using a rating symbol that generally suggests the appropriate player age group and specific content descriptors, such as graphic violence, profanity or sexually explicit material. the esrb may impose significant penalties on game publishers for violations of its rules related to rating or marketing games, including revocation of a rating or monetary fines. other countries require voluntary or government backed ratings as prerequisites for product sales. in some instances, we may have to modify our products in order to market them under the target rating, which could delay or disrupt the release of our products. in addition, some of our titles may not be sold at all or without extensive edits in certain countries, such as germany. in the united states, if the esrb rates a game as "ao" (age 18 and older), platform licensors may not certify the game and retailers may refuse to sell it. in addition, some consumers have reacted to re-ratings or controversial game content by refusing to purchase such games, demanding refunds for games that they had already purchased, and refraining from buying other games published by us. many of our rockstar titles and certain of our 2k titles have been rated "m" (age 17 and older) by the esrb. if we are unable to obtain "m" ratings and instead receive "ao" ratings on future versions of those or similar titles as a result of changes in the esrb's ratings standards or for other reasons, including the adoption of legislation in this area, our business and prospects could be negatively affected. if any of our games are re-rated by the esrb or other foreign based ratings organizations, we could be exposed to litigation, administrative fines and penalties and other potential liabilities, and our operating results and financial condition could be significantly affected. we have implemented processes to comply with the requirements of the esrb and other ratings organizations and properly display the designated rating symbols and content descriptions. nonetheless, these processes are subject to human error, circumvention, overriding and reasonable resource constraints. if a video game we published were found to contain undisclosed pertinent content, the esrb could re-rate a game, retailers could refuse to sell it and demand that we accept the return of any unsold copies or returns from customers, and consumers could refuse to buy it or demand that we refund their money. this could have a material negative affect on our operating results and financial condition. in addition, we may be exposed to litigation, administrative fines and penalties and our reputation could be harmed, which could affect sales of other video games we sell. if any of these consequences were to occur, our business and financial performance could be significantly harmed. content policies adopted by retailers, consumer opposition and litigation could negatively affect sales of our products. retailers may decline to sell interactive entertainment software containing what they judge to be graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other content that they deem inappropriate for their businesses. if retailers decline to sell our products based upon their opinion that they contain objectionable themes, graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other generally objectionable content, or if any of our previously "m" rated series products are rated "ao," we might be required to significantly change or discontinue particular titles or series, which in the case of our best-selling grand theft auto titles could seriously affect our business. consumer advocacy groups have opposed sales of interactive entertainment software containing objectionable themes, violence or sexual material or other objectionable content by pressing for legislation in these areas and by engaging in public demonstrations and media campaigns. additionally, although lawsuits seeking damages for injuries allegedly suffered by third-parties as a result of video games have generally been unsuccessful in the courts, claims of this kind have been asserted against us from time to time and may be asserted and be successful in the future. an increase in the number of lawsuits filed by the families of victims of violence may trigger supplemental governmental scrutiny, damage our reputation, and negatively affect the sale of our products. our results of operations or reputation may be harmed as a result of offensive consumer-created content. we are subject to risks associated with the collaborative online features in our games which allow consumers to post narrative comments, in real time, that are visible to other consumers. from time to time, objectionable and offensive consumer content may be posted to a gaming or other site with online chat features or game forums which allow consumers to post comments. we may 15 be subject to lawsuits, governmental regulation or restrictions, and consumer backlash (including decreased sales and harmed reputation), as a result of consumers posting offensive content. we may also be subject to consumer backlash from comments made in response to postings we make on social media sites such as facebook, youtube and twitter. we are subject to risks and uncertainties of international trade, including fluctuations in the values of local foreign currencies against the dollar. sales in international markets, primarily in europe, have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenue. for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2018 , 41.3% of our net revenue was earned outside the united states. we are continuing to execute on our growth initiatives in asia, where our strategy is to broaden the distribution of our existing products and expand our online gaming presence, especially in china and south korea. we are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased credit risks, tariffs and duties, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, shipping delays, and international political, regulatory and economic developments, all of which can have a significant influence on our operating results. many of our international sales are made in local currencies, which could fluctuate against the dollar. while we may use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our operating results could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. we face risks from our international operations. we are subject to certain risks because of our international operations, particularly as we continue to grow our business and presence in asia, latin america and other parts of the world. changes to and compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations may increase our cost of doing business and our inability or failure to obtain required approvals could harm our international and domestic sales. trade legislation in either the united states or other countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, import/export compliance laws or other trade laws or policies, could adversely affect our ability to sell or to distribute in international markets. we incur additional legal compliance costs associated with our international operations and could become subject to legal penalties in foreign countries if we do not comply with local laws and regulations which may be substantially different from those in the united states. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by united states laws and regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, and by local laws, such as laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials. although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, including those based in or from countries where practices which violate such laws may be customary, will not take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. on june 23, 2016, the u.k. held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the e.u., commonly referred to as brexit. on march 29, 2017, the u.k. notified the european council, in accordance with article 50 of the treaty on european union, of the u.k.'s intention to withdraw from the european union. as a result, the british government has begun negotiating the terms of the u.k.'s future relationship with the e.u. the effects of brexit will depend on any agreements the u.k. makes to retain access to the e.u. markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. the measures could potentially disrupt the markets we serve and may cause us to lose customers, distributors and employees. if the u.k. loses access to the single e.u. market and the global trade deals negotiated by the e.u., it could have a detrimental impact on our u.k. growth. such a decline could also make our doing business in europe more difficult, which could negatively affect sales to consumers of our products. without access to the single e.u. market, it may be more challenging and costly to distribute our products in europe. in addition, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the u.k. determines which e.u. laws to replace and replicate. if there are changes to u.k. immigration policy as a result of brexit, this could affect our employees and their ability to move freely between the e.u. member states for work related matters. if we are unable to protect the intellectual property relating to our software, the commercial value of our products will be adversely affected and our competitive position could be harmed. we develop proprietary software and have obtained the rights to publish and distribute software developed by third-parties. we attempt to protect our software and production techniques under patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as well as through contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and distribution. nonetheless, our software is susceptible to piracy and unauthorized copying, and third-parties may potentially exploit or misappropriate our intellectual property and proprietary information, causing significant reputational damage. unauthorized third-parties, for example, may be able to copy or to reverse engineer our software to obtain and use programming or production techniques that we regard as proprietary. well organized piracy operations have also proliferated in recent years, resulting in the ability to download pirated copies of our software over the internet. although we attempt to incorporate protective measures into our software, piracy of our products could negatively affect our future profitability. in addition, "cheating" programs or other unauthorized software tools and modifications that enable consumers to cheat in games harm the experience of players who play fairly and could negatively impact the volume of microtransactions or purchases of downloadable content. also, vulnerabilities in the design of our applications and of the platforms upon which they 16 run could be discovered after their release. this may lead to lost revenues from paying consumers or increased cost of developing technological measures to respond to these, either of which could negatively affect our business. if we infringe on or are alleged to infringe on the intellectual property rights of third-parties, our business could be adversely affected. as our industry grows, we may be subject to an increasing amount of litigation that is common in the software industry based on allegations of infringement or other alleged violations of patent, copyright and/or trademarks. in addition, we believe that interactive entertainment software will increasingly become the subject of claims that such software infringes on the intellectual property rights of others with both the growth of online functionality and advances in technology, game content and software graphics as games become more realistic. from time to time, we receive notices from third-parties or are named in lawsuits by third-parties alleging infringement of their proprietary rights. although we believe that our software and technologies and the software and technologies of third-party developers and publishers with whom we have contractual relations do not and will not infringe or violate proprietary rights of others, it is possible that infringement of proprietary rights of others may occur. any claims of infringement, with or without merit, could be time consuming, costly and difficult to defend. moreover, intellectual property litigation or claims could require us to discontinue the distribution of products, obtain a license or redesign our products, which could result in additional substantial costs and material delays. our software is susceptible to errors, which can harm our financial results and reputation. the technological advancements of new hardware platforms result in the development of more complex software products. as software products become more complex, the risk of undetected errors in new products increases. we may need to produce and distribute patches in order to repair such errors, which could be costly and may distract our developers from working on new products. if, despite testing, errors are found in new products or releases after shipments have been made, we may have to consider suspending distribution of defective products or offering refunds, and we could experience a loss of or delay in timely market acceptance, product returns, loss of revenue, increases in costs relating to the repair of such errors and damage to our reputation. if we acquire or invest in other businesses, intellectual properties or other assets, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired and/or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for such transactions. if appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may acquire or make investments in businesses, intellectual properties and other assets that we believe are strategic. we may not be able to identify, negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment successfully. even if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a business, intellectual property or other asset, such acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including: retaining key employees and maintaining the key business and customer relationships of the businesses we acquire; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from an acquired company or business into our organization; the possibility that the combined company would not achieve the expected benefits, including any anticipated operating and product synergies, of the acquisition as quickly as anticipated or that the costs of, or operational difficulties arising from, an acquisition would be greater than anticipated; significant acquisition-related accounting adjustments, particularly relating to an acquired company's deferred revenue, that may cause reported revenue and profits of the combined company to be lower than the sum of their stand-alone revenue and profits; significant accounting charges resulting from the completion and integration of a sizeable acquisition and increased capital expenditures, including potential impairment charges incurred to write down the carrying amount of intangible assets generated as a result of an acquisition; the possibility that significant acquisitions, when not managed cautiously, may result in the over-extension of our existing operating infrastructures, internal controls and information technology systems; the possibility that we will not discover important facts during due diligence that could have a material adverse effect on the value of the businesses we acquire, including the possibility that a change of control of a company we acquire triggers a termination of contractual or intellectual property rights important to the operation of its business; the need to integrate an acquired company's accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management and timely reporting, and the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company in an acquired company that, prior to the acquisition, lacked these controls, procedures and policies; 17 litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risks as a result of, an acquisition, including claims from terminated employees, customers or other third-parties; and to the extent that we engage in strategic transactions outside of the united states, we face additional risks, including risks related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. future acquisitions and investments could also involve the issuance of our equity and equity-linked securities (potentially diluting our existing stockholders), the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, write-offs of goodwill, intangibles, or acquired in-process technology, or other increased cash and non-cash expenses such as stock-based compensation. any of the foregoing factors could harm our financial condition or prevent us from achieving improvements in our financial condition and operating performance that could have otherwise been achieved by us on a stand-alone basis. our stockholders may not have the opportunity to review, vote on or evaluate future acquisitions or investments. our ability to acquire and maintain licenses to intellectual property, especially for sports titles, affects our revenue and profitability. competition for these licenses may make them more expensive and increase our costs. certain of our products are based on or incorporate intellectual property owned by others. for example, certain of our 2k products include rights licensed from major sports leagues and players' associations. similarly, some of our other titles are based on licenses of popular entertainment products. competition for these licenses is intense. if we are unable to maintain and renew these licenses or obtain additional licenses on reasonable economic terms or with significant commercial value, our revenue and profitability could decline significantly. competition for these licenses may also increase the advances, guarantees and royalties that we must pay to the licensor, which could significantly increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability. in addition, on certain intellectual property licenses, we are subject to guaranteed minimum payments, royalties or standards of performance and may not be able to terminate these agreements prior to their stated expiration. if such licensed products do not generate revenues in excess of such minimum guarantees, our profitability will be adversely affected. we are subject to contractual covenants which place certain limitations on how we manage our business . our second amended and restated credit agreement (as amended, the "credit agreement") and the indentures governing our 1.00% convertible notes due 2018 issued in june 2013 (the "1.00% convertible notes") may limit our ability to take various actions, including incurring additional debt, paying dividends, repurchasing shares and acquiring or disposing of assets or businesses. in addition, we have granted a security interest in connection with certain compensatory arrangements which limits our ability to incur senior debt in excess of certain amounts. accordingly, we may be restricted from taking actions that management believes would be desirable and in the best interests of us and our stockholders. our credit agreement and the indentures also require us to satisfy specified financial and non-financial covenants. a breach of any of the covenants contained in our credit agreement could result in an event of default under the agreement and under the indentures governing our 1.00% convertible notes and would allow our lenders and noteholders to pursue various remedies, including accelerating the repayment of any outstanding indebtedness. our business and products are subject to potential legislation. the adoption of such proposed legislation could limit the retail market for our products. several proposals have been made for federal legislation to regulate our industry. such proposals seek to prohibit the sale of products containing certain content included in some of our games. if any such proposals are enacted into law, it may limit the potential market for some of our games in the united states, and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. other countries, such as germany, have adopted laws regulating content both in packaged games and those transmitted over the internet that are stricter than current united states laws. in the united states, proposals have also been made by numerous state legislators to regulate and prohibit the sale of interactive entertainment software products containing certain types of violent or sexual content to under 17 or 18 audiences, such as the state of california's "ultraviolent video games law" that sought to ban the sale or rental of violent video games to minors. while such legislation to date has been enjoined by industry and retail groups or been found unconstitutional, the adoption into law of such legislation in federal and/or in state jurisdictions in which we do significant business could severely limit the retail market for some of our games. change in government regulations relating to the internet could have a negative impact on our business. we rely on our consumers' access to significant levels of internet bandwidth for the sale and digital delivery of our content and the functionality of our games with online features. changes in laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the internet, including laws affecting "net neutrality," could decrease the demand for our products and services or increase our cost of doing business. although certain jurisdictions have implemented laws and regulations intended to prevent internet service providers from discriminating against particular types of legal traffic on their networks, other jurisdictions may lack such laws and regulations or repeal existing laws or regulations. for example, on december 14, 2017, the federal communications 18 commission voted to repeal net neutrality regulations in the u.s. given uncertainty around these rules, including changing interpretations, amendments, or repeal, coupled with the potentially significant political and economic power of local internet service providers and the relatively significant level of internet bandwidth access our products and services require, we could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede our growth, cause us to incur additional expenses, or otherwise negatively affect our business. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill becomes impaired. we are required under u.s. generally accepted accounting principles to review our goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating a requirement to reevaluate whether our goodwill continues to be recoverable, include a significant decline in stock price and market capitalization, slower growth rates in our industry or other materially adverse events. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill is determined. this may adversely affect our operating results. our reported financial results could be adversely affected by the application of existing or future accounting standards to our business as it evolves. our reported financial results are affected by the accounting policies promulgated by the sec and national accounting standards bodies and the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies. for example, standards regarding revenue recognition have and could further significantly affect the way we account for revenue related to our products and services. we expect that an increasing number of our games will be supported with material post-release activities, such as content updates and online-enabled features, and we could therefore be required to recognize more of the related revenues for those games over a period of time rather than at the time of sale. further, as we increase our downloadable content and add new features to our online services, user playing patterns can affect our estimate of the service period may change and we could be required to recognize revenues, and defer related costs, over a shorter or longer period of time than we initially allocated. as we enhance, expand and diversify our business and product offerings, the application of existing or future financial accounting standards, particularly those relating to the way we account for revenue, could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results although not necessarily on our cash flows. risks relating to our common stock for purposes of this section "risks relating to our common stock," references to "the company," "we," "our," and "us" refer only to take-two interactive software, inc. and not to its subsidiaries. additional issuances or sales of equity securities by us would dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. we may issue equity or equity-based securities (such as our 1.00% convertible notes) in the future in connection with acquisitions or strategic transactions, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, including through repayment of outstanding debt, to fund expansion of our operations or for other purposes. to the extent we issue additional equity securities, including upon conversion of our outstanding 1.00% convertible notes, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders would be reduced. the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect its price. the sale or the availability for sale of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause the price of our common stock to decline. the issuance of shares of our common stock upon conversion of our 1.00% convertible notes could also adversely affect the price of our common stock. there is no guarantee that we will do additional share repurchases in the future. the share repurchase program authorized by the board of directors, which authorized the repurchase of up to 14.2 million shares of our common stock and had 5.9 million shares available for repurchase as of the date of this filing, does not obligate the company to make any purchases at any specific time or situation. discontinuing repurchases could adversely affect the price of the company's common stock. the program may be suspended or discontinued at any time for any reason. our stock price has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate significantly. the market price of our common stock historically has been, and we expect will continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations. these fluctuations may be due to factors specific to us including those discussed in the risk factors in this section as well as others not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material, to changes in securities analysts' earnings estimates or ratings, to our results or future financial guidance falling below our expectations and analysts' and investors' expectations, to factors affecting the computer, software, entertainment, media or electronics industries, or to national or international economic conditions. 19 stock markets, in general, have experienced over the years, and continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected market prices for companies such as ours and that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. delaware law, our charter documents and provisions of our debt agreements may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline. we are a delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third-party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. our board of directors has the power, without stockholder approval, to adopt a stockholder rights plan and/or to designate the terms of one or more series of preferred stock and issue shares of preferred stock. the ability of our board of directors to create and issue a new series of preferred stock and certain provisions of delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market price of our common stock and the value of any outstanding notes. our ability to use net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards to reduce future years' taxes could be substantially limited under internal revenue code sections 382 and 383 if we experience an ownership change as defined in the internal revenue code section 382. section 382 of the internal revenue code contains rules that limit the ability of a company to use its net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards in years after an ownership change, which is generally defined as any change in ownership of more than 50% of its stock over a three-year testing period. these rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes among stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of the stock of a company and/or any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by the company. if, as a result of future transactions involving our common stock, including purchases or sales of stock by 5% stockholders, we undergo cumulative ownership changes which exceed 50% over the testing period, our ability to use our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards would be subject to additional limitations under sections 382 and 383. generally, if an ownership change occurs, the annual taxable income limitation on the use of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards is equal to the product of the applicable long-term tax exempt rate and the value of the company's stock immediately before the ownership change. depending on the resulting limitation, a portion of our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards could expire before we would be able to use them. our inability to fully utilize any net operating losses or tax credit carryforwards to reduce tax liability in the future could have a material and negative affect on our future financial position and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential loss arising from fluctuations in market rates and prices. our market risk exposures primarily include fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rate risk our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates relates primarily to our short-term investment portfolio and variable rate debt under the credit agreement. we seek to manage our interest rate risk by maintaining a short-term investment portfolio that includes corporate bonds with high credit quality and maturities less than two years. since short-term investments mature relatively quickly and can be reinvested at the then-current market rates, interest income on a portfolio consisting of short-term securities is more subject to market fluctuations than a portfolio of longer term maturities. however, the fair value of a short-term portfolio is less sensitive to market fluctuations than a portfolio of longer term securities. we do not currently use derivative financial instruments in our short-term investment portfolio. our investments are held for purposes other than trading. as of march 31, 2018 , we had $615.4 million of short-term investments, which included $398.7 million of available-for-sale securities. the available-for-sale securities were recorded at fair market value with unrealized gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, in stockholders' equity. we also had $809.0 million of cash and cash equivalents that are comprised primarily of money market funds and bank-time deposits. we determined that, based on the composition of our investment portfolio, there was no material interest rate risk exposure to our consolidated financial statements or liquidity as of march 31, 2018 . historically, fluctuations in interest rates have not had a significant effect on our operating results. under our credit agreement, outstanding balances bear interest at our election of (a) 0.25% to 0.75% above a certain base rate ( 4.75% at march 31, 2018 ), or (b) 1.25% to 1.75% above the libor rate (approximately 1.88% at march 31, 2018 ), with the margin rate subject to the achievement of certain average liquidity levels. changes in market rates may affect our future interest expense if there is an outstanding balance on our line of credit. at march 31, 2018 , there were no outstanding borrowings under our credit agreement. the 1.00% convertible notes pay interest semi-annually at a fixed rate of 1.00% per annum, and we expect that there will be no fluctuation related to the 1.00% convertible notes affecting our cash component of interest expense. for additional details on our convertible notes see note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. foreign currency exchange rate risk we transact business in foreign currencies and are exposed to risks resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. accounts relating to foreign operations are translated into united states dollars using prevailing exchange rates at the relevant period end. translation adjustments are included as a separate component of stockholders' equity on our consolidated balance sheets. for the fiscal years ended march 31, 2018 and 2017 , our foreign currency translation adjustment was a gain of $43.4 million and a loss of $9.1 million , respectively. we recognized a foreign currency exchange transaction loss of $3.0 million , a gain of $5.0 million , and a loss of $1.4 million million for the fiscal years ended march 31, 2018 , 2017 , and 2016 , respectively, in interest and other, net in our consolidated statements of operations. balance sheet hedging activities we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with non-functional currency denominated cash balances and inter-company funding loans, non-functional currency denominated accounts receivable and non- 39 functional currency denominated accounts payable. these transactions are not designated as hedging instruments and are accounted for as derivatives whereby the fair value of the contracts is reported as either assets or liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, and gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair value are reported in interest and other, net, in our consolidated statements of operations. we do not enter into derivative financial contracts for speculative or trading purposes. at march 31, 2018 , we had $4.4 million of forward contracts outstanding to buy foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars and $67.6 million of forward contracts outstanding to sell foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars all of which have maturities of less than one year. at march 31, 2017 , we had $9.2 million of forward contracts outstanding to buy foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars and $177.5 million of forward contracts outstanding to sell foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars all of which have maturities of less than one year. for the fiscal years ended march 31, 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , we recorded a loss of $19.5 million and gains of $7.2 million and $0.1 million , respectively, related to foreign currency forward contracts in interest and other, net on the consolidated statements of operations. as of march 31, 2018 and 2017 the fair value of these outstanding forward contracts was a loss of $0.0 million and $0.4 million , respectively, and is included in accrued and other current liabilities. the fair value of these outstanding forward contracts is estimated based on the prevailing exchange rates of the various hedged currencies as of the end of the period. our hedging programs are designed to reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the effect of currency exchange rate movements. we believe the counterparties to these foreign currency forward contracts are credit-worthy multinational commercial banks and that the risk of counterparty nonperformance is not material. notwithstanding our efforts to mitigate some foreign currency exchange rate risks, there can be no assurance that our hedging activities will adequately protect us against the risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations. for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2018 , 41.3% of our revenue was generated outside the united states. using sensitivity analysis, a hypothetical 10% increase in the value of the u.s. dollar against all currencies would decrease revenues by 4.1% , while a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of the u.s. dollar against all currencies would increase revenues by 4.1% . in the opinion of management, a substantial portion of this fluctuation would be offset by cost of goods sold and operating expenses incurred in local currency.risk factors 7 risk factors our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. because of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other factors affecting our operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance and our business and financial performance could be harmed and the market value of our securities could decline. risks relating to our business we are dependent on the future success of our grand theft auto products and we must continue to publish "hit" titles or sequels to such "hit" titles in order to compete successfully in our industry. grand theft auto and certain of our other titles, such as red dead redemption or nba 2k , are "hit" products and have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our revenue. grand theft auto products contributed 25.7% of our net revenue for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2019 and the five best-selling franchises (including grand theft auto ), which may change year over year, in the aggregate accounted for 91.8% of our net revenue for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2019 . if we fail to continue to develop and sell new commercially successful "hit" titles or sequels to such "hit" titles or experience any delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our "hit" titles or their sequels, our revenue and profits may decrease substantially and we may incur losses. in addition, competition in our industry is intense and a relatively small number of hit titles account for a large portion of total revenue in our industry. hit products offered by our competitors may take a larger share of consumer spending than we anticipate, which could cause revenue generated from our products to fall below our expectations. if our competitors develop more successful products or services at lower price points or based on payment models perceived as offering better value, or if we do not continue to develop consistently high quality and well-received products and services, our revenue and profitability may decline. in addition, both the online and mobile games marketplaces are characterized by frequent product introductions, relatively low barriers to entry, and new and evolving business methods, technologies and platforms for development. widespread consumer adoption of these new platforms for games and other technological advances in and/or new business or payment models in online or mobile game offerings could negatively affect our sales of console and traditional pc products before we have an opportunity to develop profitable businesses in such markets. we are subject to product development risks which could result in delays and additional costs, and we must adapt to changes in software technologies. we depend on our internal development studios and third-party software developers to develop new interactive entertainment software within anticipated release schedules and cost projections. the development cycle for new titles generally ranges from 12 months for annual sports releases, to multiple years for certain of our top-selling titles. therefore, our development costs can be substantial. if we or our third party developers experience unanticipated development delays, financial difficulties or additional costs, we may not be able to release titles according to our schedule and at budgeted costs. there can be no assurance that our products will be sufficiently successful so that we can recoup these costs or make a profit on these products. additionally, in order to stay competitive, our internal development studios must anticipate and adapt to rapid technological changes affecting software development. any inability to respond to technological advances and implement new technologies could render our products obsolete or less marketable. further, the failure to pursue the development of new technology, platforms, or business models that obtain meaningful commercial success in a timely manner may negatively affect our business, resulting in increased production costs and more strenuous competition. the inability of our products to achieve significant market acceptance, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our products may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. new products may not achieve significant market acceptance, generate sufficient sales or be introduced in a timely manner to permit us to recover development, manufacturing and marketing costs associated with these products. the life cycle of a title generally involves a relatively high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. because sales associated with an initial product launch generally constitute a high percentage of the total sales associated with the life of a product, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of one or more new products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results and cause our operating results to be materially different from our expectations. 7 our business is subject to our ability to develop commercially successful products for the current video game platforms. we derive most of our revenue from the sale of products made for video game platforms manufactured by third parties, such as sony's ps4 and microsoft's xbox one, which comprised 83.7% of our net revenue by product platform for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2019 . the success of our business is subject to the continued popularity of these platforms and our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. we may experience declines or fluctuations in the recurring portion of our business. our business model includes revenue that we deem recurring in nature, such as revenue from our annualized titles and associated services, and ongoing mobile businesses. while we have been able to forecast the revenue from these areas of our business with greater certainty than for new offerings, we cannot provide assurances that consumers will purchase these games and services on a consistent basis. furthermore, we may cease to offer games and services that we previously had deemed to be recurring in nature. consumer purchases of our games and services may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our games and services, our ability to improve and innovate our annualized titles, our ability to adapt our games and services to new platforms, outages and disruptions of online services, the games and services offered by our competitors, our marketing and advertising efforts or declines in consumer activity generally as a result of economic downturns, among others. any decline or fluctuation in the recurring portion of our business may have a negative impact on our financial and operating results. connectivity issues could affect our ability to sell and provide online services for our products and could affect our profitability. we rely upon third-party digital delivery platforms, such as microsoft's xbox live, playstation network, steam and other third-party service providers, to provide connectivity from the consumer to our digital products and our online services. connectivity issues could prevent customers from accessing this content and our ability to successfully market and sell our products could be adversely affected. in addition, we could experience similar issues related to services we host on our internal servers. such issues also could affect our ability to provide online services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. our business could be adversely affected if our consumer data protection measures are not seen as adequate or there are breaches of our security measures or unintended disclosures of our consumer data. we are collecting and storing consumer information, including personal information. we take measures to protect our consumer data from unauthorized access or disclosure. it is possible that our security controls over consumer data may not prevent the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information. in addition, due to the high profile nature of our products, we may draw a disproportionately higher amount of attention and attempts to breach our security controls than companies with lower profile products. a security breach that leads to disclosure of consumer account information (including personally identifiable information) could harm our reputation, compel us to comply with disparate breach notification laws in various jurisdictions and otherwise subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. a resulting perception that our products or services do not adequately protect the privacy of personal information could result in a loss of current or potential consumers and business partners. in addition, if any of our business partners experience a security breach that leads to disclosure of consumer account information, our reputation could be harmed, resulting in loss of revenue. in addition, certain of our products are online enabled. the ability of our products to offer online functionality, and our ability to offer content through a video game platform's digital distribution channel, is dependent upon the continued operation and security of such platform's online network. these third party networks, as well as our own internal systems and websites, and the security measures related thereto may be breached as a result of third-party action, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and result in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our customers' data or our data, including our intellectual property and other confidential business information, or our information technology systems. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. if an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, we may lose business, suffer irreparable damage to our reputation, and/or incur significant costs and expenses relating to the investigation and possible litigation of claims relating to such event. the laws and regulations concerning data privacy and certain other aspects of our business are continually evolving. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could harm our business. we are subject to certain privacy and data protection laws, including those in the united states ("u.s."). certain activities related to processing the personal data of european union ("e.u.") individuals are conducted by our united kingdom ("u.k.")-based data controller or our local entities in the e.u. the u.s. children's online privacy protection act also regulates the collection, use, and disclosure of personal information from children under 13 years of age. failure to comply with privacy laws, data protection 8 laws, or age restrictions may increase our costs, subject us to expensive and distracting government investigations, and result in substantial fines. privacy and data protection laws are rapidly changing and likely will continue to do so for the foreseeable future, which could have an impact on our approach to operating and marketing our games. for example, the e.u. general data protection regulation ("gdpr") became effective on may 25, 2018, replacing data protection directive 95/46/ec. gdpr applies to us because we receive and process the personal data of individuals in the e.u., and we maintain certain local entities in the e.u. responsible for processing personal data. gdpr contains significant penalties for non-compliance. countries in the e.u. are still enacting national laws that correspond to certain portions of the gdpr. in the u.s., the state of california enacted the california consumer privacy act ("ccpa") on june 28, 2018. the ccpa will become effective on january 1, 2020 and will apply to processing of personal data of california residents. however, several proposed amendments to the ccpa are still being considered by the california legislature. the u.s. government, including the federal trade commission and the department of commerce, also continue to review the need for greater or different regulation over the collection of personal information and information about consumer behavior on the internet and on mobile devices. various government and consumer agencies worldwide have also called for new regulation and changes in industry practices. player use of our games is subject to our privacy policy, end user license agreements ("eula"), and terms of service. if we fail to comply with our posted privacy policy, eula, or terms of service, or if we fail to comply with existing privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations, it could result in proceedings or litigation against us by governmental authorities or others, which could result in fines or judgments against us, damage our reputation, affect our financial condition and harm our business. if regulators, the media, or consumers raise any concerns about our privacy and data protection or consumer protection practices, even if unfounded, this could also result in fines or judgments against us, damage our reputation, negatively affect our financial condition, and damage our business. it is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted or construed to apply to us in the u.s. and elsewhere that could restrict the interactive entertainment industry, including player privacy, advertising, taxation, content suitability, copyright, distribution and antitrust. furthermore, the growth and development of electronic commerce and virtual goods may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on companies such as ours conducting business through digital sales. any such changes would require us to devote legal and other resources to address such regulation. for example, existing laws or new laws regarding the regulation of currency, banking institutions and unclaimed property may be interpreted to cover virtual currency or virtual goods. if that were to occur we may be required to seek licenses, authorizations or approvals from relevant regulators, the granting of which may be dependent on us meeting certain capital and other requirements and we may be subject to additional regulation and oversight, all of which could significantly increase our operating costs. changes in current laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws and regulations in the u.s. or elsewhere regarding these activities may lessen the growth of the interactive entertainment industry and impair our business, financial condition, and operating results. although we have structured and operate our skill tournaments with applicable laws in mind, including any applicable laws relating to gambling, and believe that playing these games does not constitute gambling, our skill tournaments could in the future become subject to gambling-related rules and regulations and expose us to civil and criminal penalties. we also sometimes offer consumers of our online and casual games various types of contests and promotional opportunities. we are subject to laws in a number of jurisdictions concerning the operation and offering of such activities and games, many of which are still evolving and could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business. further, some of our online games and other services include random digital item mechanics, which may become subject to regulations in various jurisdictions. if these were to occur, we might be required to seek licenses, authorizations, or approvals from relevant regulators, the granting of which may be dependent on us meeting certain capital and other requirements, and we may be subject to additional regulation and oversight, such as reporting to regulators, all of which could significantly increase our operating costs. changes in current laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws and regulations in the u.s., europe, or elsewhere regarding these activities may lessen the growth of casual game services and impair our business. also, existing laws or new laws regarding the marketing of in-game or in-app purchases, regulation of currency, banking institutions, unclaimed property, or money laundering may be interpreted to cover virtual currency or goods. security breaches involving the source code for our products or other sensitive and proprietary information could adversely affect our business. we securely store the source code for our interactive entertainment software products as it is created. a breach, whether physical, electronic or otherwise, of the systems on which such source code and other sensitive data are stored could lead to damage or piracy of our software. in addition, certain parties with whom we do business are given access to our sensitive and proprietary information in order to provide services and support our team. these third parties may misappropriate our information and engage in unauthorized use of it. if we are subject to data security breaches, we may have a loss in sales or increased costs arising from the restoration or implementation of additional security measures which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. any theft and/or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an event could adversely affect our competitive position, reputation, brand, and future sales of our 9 products. our business could be subject to significant disruption, and we could suffer monetary and other losses and reputational harm, in the event of such incidents and claims. we rely on complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business. any significant system or network disruption could have a negative impact on our business. we rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks, some of which are within take-two and some of which are managed and/or hosted by third-party providers. all information technology systems and networks are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including but not limited to cyber-attacks, computer viruses, malicious software, security breach, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. we may also face sophisticated attacks, referred to as advanced persistent threats, which are cyber-attacks aimed at compromising our intellectual property and other commercially-sensitive information, such as the source code and game assets for our software or confidential customer or employee information, which remain undetected for prolonged periods of time. information technology system or network failure or security breach could negatively affect our business continuity, operations and financial results. these risks extend to the networks and e-commerce sites of console platform providers and other partners who sell and host our content online. along with our partners, we have expended, and expect to continue to expend, financial and operational resources to implement certain systems, processes and technologies to guard against cyber risks and to help protect our data and systems. however, the techniques used to exploit, disable, damage, disrupt or gain access to our networks, our products and services, supporting technological infrastructure, intellectual property and other assets change frequently, continue to evolve in sophistication and volume, and often are not detected for long periods of time. our systems, processes and technologies, and the systems, processes and technologies of our business partners or our third-party service providers, may not be adequate against all eventualities. in addition, the costs to respond to, mitigate, and/or notify affected parties of cyber-attacks and other security vulnerabilities are significant. any failure to prevent or mitigate security breaches or cyber risks, or detect or respond adequately to a security breach or cyber risk, could result in a loss of anticipated revenue, interruptions to our products and services, cause us to incur significant remediation and notification costs, degrade the user experience, cause consumers to lose confidence in our products and services and significant legal and financial costs. successful exploitation of our systems can have other negative effects upon the products, services and user experience we offer. in particular, the virtual economies that we have established in many of our games are subject to abuse, exploitation and other forms of fraudulent activity that can negatively affect our business. virtual economies involve the use of virtual currency and/or virtual assets that can be used or redeemed by a player within a particular game or service. the abuse or exploitation of our virtual economies include the illegitimate generation and sale of virtual items in black markets. these kinds of activities and the steps that we take to address these issues may result in a loss of anticipated revenue, interfere with players' enjoyment of a balanced game environment and cause reputational harm. our efforts to expand into new products and services may subject us to additional risks. in recent years, we have invested in emerging opportunities in interactive entertainment played on mobile platforms, including tablets and smartphones, and online platforms, including social networks. we have also grown our product offerings that are available through digital download, including virtual currency, through our existing franchises such as grant theft auto and nba 2k as well as through product offerings by social point and other mobile product offerings. we are actively investing to capitalize on these trends in order to diversify our product mix, reduce our operating risks, and increase our revenue. there are risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. there is no assurance that we will be able to attract a sufficiently large number of customers or recover costs incurred for developing and marketing any of these new products or services. for example, we may offer games that do not attract sufficient purchases of virtual currency, which may cause our investments into this product space, such as through our acquisition of social point, to fail to realize the expected benefits. external factors, such as competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also have an impact on the successful implementation of any new products or services. failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we depend on our key management and product development personnel. our continued success will depend to a significant extent on our senior management team and our relationship with zelnickmedia corporation ("zelnickmedia"). our executive chairman/chief executive officer and president are partners of zelnickmedia. we are also highly dependent on the expertise, skills and knowledge of certain of our rockstar employees and other key creative personnel responsible for content creation and development of our grand theft auto titles and titles based on other brands. we may not be able to continue to retain these personnel at current compensation levels, or at all. the loss of the services of our executive officers, zelnickmedia, our key rockstar employees or other key creative personnel could significantly harm our business. in addition, if one or more key employees were to join a competitor or form a competing 10 company, we may lose additional personnel, experience material interruptions in product development, delays in bringing products to market and difficulties in our relationships with licensors, suppliers and customers, which would significantly harm our business. failure to continue to attract and retain other qualified management and creative personnel could adversely affect our business and prospects. declines in consumer spending and other adverse changes in the economy could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. most of our products involve discretionary spending on the part of consumers. we believe that consumer spending is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. this makes our products particularly sensitive to general economic conditions and economic cycles as consumers are generally more willing to make discretionary purchases, including purchases of products like ours, during periods in which favorable economic conditions prevail. adverse economic conditions such as a prolonged u.s. or international general economic downturn, including periods of increased inflation, unemployment levels, tax rates, interest rates, energy prices or declining consumer confidence could also reduce consumer spending. reduced consumer spending has and may in the future continue to result in reduced demand for our products and may also require increased selling and promotional expenses, which has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, during periods of relative economic weakness, our consolidated credit risk, reflecting our counterparty dealings with distributors, customers, capital providers and others may increase, perhaps materially so. furthermore, uncertainty and adverse changes in the economy could also increase the risk of material losses on our investments, increase costs associated with developing and publishing our products, increase the cost and availability of sources of financing, and increase our exposure to material losses from bad debts, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. if economic conditions worsen, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act (herein referred to as the "act ). the act made broad and complex changes to the u.s. tax code that could materially affect us. the act reduced the u.s. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% , effective january 1, 2018 and required companies to pay a one-time transition tax on the previously untaxed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries. in addition, the act made other changes that may affect us, including but not limited to (1) a base erosion anti-abuse tax ("beat"), which is a new minimum tax, (2) generally eliminating u.s. federal income taxes on dividends from foreign subsidiaries, (3) a new provision that taxes global intangible low-taxed income ("gilti"), (4) the repeal of the domestic production activity deduction, and (5) other base broadening provisions. we have completed accounting for the income tax effects of the act. see note 15 - income tax to our consolidated financial statements for further information. we are continuing to evaluate the impact of the act on us. it is possible that these changes could have an adverse impact on our effective tax rate, tax payments, financial condition, or results of operations. the new tax law is complex and additional interpretive guidance may be issued that could affect the interpretations and assumptions we have made, as well as actions we may take as a result of the act. we are a multinational corporation with operations in the u.s. and various other jurisdictions around the world. accordingly, we are subject to tax in the u.s. and in various other jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes, and, in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are required to estimate future taxes. although we currently believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the estimation process is inherently uncertain, and such estimates are not binding on tax authorities. further, our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including changes in the business, the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax elections, and changes in applicable tax laws. additionally, tax determinations are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities, and developments in those audits could adversely affect our income tax provision. should the ultimate tax liability exceed estimates, our income tax provision and net income or loss could be materially affected. in addition, numerous countries are evaluating their existing tax laws due in part to recommendations made by the organization for economic co-operation and development's ( oecd's ) base erosion and profit shifting ( beps ) project. although we cannot predict whether, or in what form, any legislation based on such proposals may be adopted by the countries in which we do business, future tax reform based on such proposals may increase the amount of taxes we pay and adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. historically, we recorded a valuation allowance against most of our u.s. deferred tax assets. in the current fiscal year, we released our valuation allowance on certain u.s. deferred tax assets as a result of a determination that it was more-likely-than-not that such deferred tax assets would be realized. our determination took into account the successful launch of red dead redemption 2 during 11 the year along with our recent positive trend of earnings. we will continue to evaluate our ability to realize our u.s. deferred tax assets. if future evidence suggests that any changes are required to reflect the amount of our u.s. deferred tax asset that is more-likely-than-not to be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance as needed in the appropriate period. on june 21, 2018, the u.s. supreme court issued its decision in south dakota v. wayfair, which overturned previous case law that precluded states from requiring retailers to collect and remit sales tax on sales made to in-state customers unless the retailer had a physical presence in the state. although this case is limited to sales tax collection obligations, we continue to monitor the potential impact of this decision on our state income tax footprint. the ultimate amount of tax payable in a given financial statement period may be materially affected by sudden or unforeseen changes in tax laws, changes in the mix and level of earnings by taxing jurisdictions, or changes to existing accounting rules or regulations. for example, on july 24, 2018, the ninth circuit court of appeals issued an opinion in altera corp. v. commissioner requiring related parties in an intercompany cost-sharing arrangement to share expenses related to stock compensation. on august 7, 2018, the opinion was withdrawn to allow time for a reconstituted panel to confer. we will continue to monitor ongoing developments and the final opinion could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. we earn a significant amount of our operating income and continue to hold a significant portion of our cash outside the u.s. our current intention is to reinvest indefinitely earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, and therefore we have not recorded any tax liabilities associated with the repatriation of foreign earnings. we are also required to pay taxes other than income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property, and goods and services taxes, in both the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions. we are regularly under examination by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations, changes in our business or changes in applicable tax law or interpretations will not have an adverse effect on our net income or loss and financial condition. our quarterly operating results are dependent on the release of "hit" titles and are highly seasonal which may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate significantly. we have experienced and may continue to experience wide fluctuations in quarterly operating results. the release of a "hit" title typically leads to a high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. in addition, the interactive entertainment industry is highly seasonal, with sales typically higher during the fourth calendar quarter, due primarily to increased demand for games during the holiday season. demand for and sales of titles in our nba 2k series are also seasonal in that they are typically released just prior to the start of the nba season. if a key event or sports season to which our product release schedule is tied were to be delayed or canceled, our sales might also suffer disproportionately. our failure or inability to produce "hit" titles or introduce products on a timely basis to meet seasonal fluctuations in demand could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. the uncertainties associated with software development, manufacturing lead times, production delays and the approval process for products by hardware manufacturers and other licensors make it difficult to predict the quarter in which our products will ship and therefore may cause us to fail to meet financial expectations. price protection granted to our customers and returns of our published titles by our customers may adversely affect our operating results. we are exposed to the risk of price protection and product returns with respect to our customers. our distribution arrangements with customers generally do not give them the right to return titles to us or to cancel firm orders. however, we sometimes accept product returns from our distribution customers for stock balancing and negotiate accommodations for customers, which include credits and returns, when demand for specific products falls below expectations. we grant price protection and accept returns in connection with our publishing arrangements and revenue is recognized after deducting estimated price protection and reserves for returns. while we believe that we can reliably estimate future price protection and returns, if price protection and return rates for our products exceed our reserves, our revenue could decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. increased sales of used video game products could lower our sales. certain of our larger customers sell used video games, which are generally priced lower than new video games. if our customers increase their sales of used video games, it could negatively affect our sales of new video games and have an adverse influence on our business, financial condition and operating results. a limited number of customers account for a significant portion of our sales. the loss of a principal customer or other significant business relationship could seriously hurt our business. a substantial portion of our product sales are made to a limited number of customers. sales to our five largest customers during the fiscal year ended march 31, 2019 accounted for 70.1% of our net revenue, with sony, microsoft, and gamestop each accounting for more than 10.0% of our net revenue during the fiscal year ended march 31, 2019 . our sales are made primarily pursuant to 12 purchase orders without long-term agreements or other commitments, and our customers may terminate their relationship with us at any time. certain of our customers may decline to carry products containing mature content. the loss of our relationships with principal customers or a decline in sales to principal customers, including as a result of a product being rated "ao" (age 18 and over) could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, if our customers are subject to pricing pressures due to deteriorating demand for our products, competitive pressure, or otherwise, such customers may pass those pricing pressures through to us, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. furthermore, our customers may also be placed into bankruptcy, become insolvent or be liquidated due to economic downturns, global contractions of credit or for other factors. bankruptcies or consolidations of certain large retail customers could seriously hurt our business, including as a result of uncollectible accounts receivable from such customers and the concentration of purchasing power among remaining large retailers. in addition, our results of operations may be adversely affected if certain of our customers who purchase on credit terms are no longer eligible to purchase on such terms due to their financial distress, which may reduce the quantity of products they demand from us. if our marketing and advertising efforts fail to resonate with consumers, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. our products are marketed worldwide through a diverse spectrum of advertising and promotional programs such as television and online advertising, social media advertising, print advertising, retail merchandising, website development and event sponsorship. our ability to sell our products and services is dependent in part on the success of these programs. if the marketing for our products and services fails to resonate with consumers, particularly during the holiday season or other key selling periods, or if advertising rates or other media placement costs increase, these factors could have a material adverse influence on our business, financial condition and operating results. the interactive entertainment software industry is highly competitive. we compete for both licenses to properties and the sale of interactive entertainment software with sony and microsoft, each of which is a large developer and marketer of software for its own platforms. we also compete with game publishers, such as activision blizzard, inc. and electronic arts inc. and ubisoft entertainment s.a. as our business is dependent upon our ability to develop hit titles, which require increasing budgets for development and marketing, the availability of significant financial resources has become a major competitive factor in developing and marketing software games. some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, personnel and other resources than we do and are able to finance larger budgets for development and marketing and make higher offers to licensors and developers for commercially desirable properties. our titles also compete with other forms of entertainment, such as social media and casual games, in addition to motion pictures, television and audio and video products featuring similar themes, online computer programs and other entertainment, which may be less expensive or provide other advantages to consumers. a number of software publishers who compete with us have developed and commercialized or are currently developing online games for use by consumers over the internet. if technological advances significantly increase the availability of online games and if consumer acceptance of online gaming grows substantially, it could result in a decline in our platform-based software sales and negatively affect sales of such products. increased competition for limited shelf space and promotional support from retailers could affect the success of our business and require us to incur greater expenses to market our titles. while digital sales are increasingly important to our business, for physical sales, retailers have limited shelf space and promotional resources and competition is intense among newly introduced interactive entertainment software titles for adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support. competition for retail shelf space is expected to continue to increase, which may require us to increase our marketing expenditures to maintain desirable sales levels of our titles. competitors with more extensive lines and more popular titles may have greater bargaining power with retailers. accordingly, we may not be able, or we may have to pay more than our competitors, to achieve similar levels of promotional support and shelf space. the increasing importance of digital sales to our business exposes us to the risks of that business model, including greater competition. the proportion of our revenues derived from digital content delivery, as compared to traditional retail sales, may continue to increase. the increased importance of digital content delivery in our industry increases our potential competition, as the minimum capital needed to produce and publish a digitally delivered game is significantly less than that needed to produce and publish one that is purchased through retail distribution and is played on a game console. this will also require us to dedicate capital to developing and implementing alternative marketing strategies, which we may not do successfully. if either occurs, we may be unable to effectively market and distribute our products, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition 13 and operating results. in addition, a continuing shift to digital delivery could result in a deprioritization of our products by traditional retailers. the increasing importance of digital sales to our business could also result in increasing issues with our digital distribution process, including difficulties our distributors have with collecting from consumers and any associated rebates we would owe. our business is partly dependent on our ability to enter into successful software development arrangements with third parties. our success depends on our ability to continually identify and develop new titles on a timely basis. we rely on third-party software developers for the development of some of our titles. quality third-party developers are continually in high demand. software developers who have developed titles for us in the past may not be available to develop software for us in the future. due to the limited number of third-party software developers and the limited control that we exercise over them, these developers may not be able to complete titles for us on a timely basis or within acceptable quality standards, if at all. we have entered into agreements with third parties to acquire the rights to publish and distribute interactive entertainment software as well as to use licensed intellectual properties in our titles. these agreements typically require us to make development payments, pay royalties and satisfy other conditions. our development payments may not be sufficient to permit developers to develop new software successfully, which could result in material delays and significantly increase our costs to bring particular products to market. software development costs, promotion and marketing expenses and royalties payable to software developers and third-party licensors have increased significantly in recent years and reduce potential profits derived from sales of our software. future sales of our titles may not be sufficient to recover development payments and advances to software developers and licensors, and we may not have adequate financial and other resources to satisfy our contractual commitments to such developers. if we fail to satisfy our obligations under agreements with third-party developers and licensors, the agreements may be terminated or modified in ways that are burdensome to us, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we cannot publish our titles without the approval of hardware licensors that are also our competitors. we are required to obtain licenses from certain of our competitors, including sony and microsoft, to develop and publish titles for their respective hardware platforms. our existing platform licenses require that we obtain approval for the publication of new titles on a title-by-title basis. as a result, the number of titles we are able to publish for these hardware platforms, our ability to manage the timing of the release of these titles and, accordingly, our net revenue from titles for these hardware platforms, may be limited. if a licensor chooses not to renew or extend our license agreement at the end of its current term, or if a licensor were to terminate our license for any reason or does not approve one or more of our titles, we may be unable to publish that title as well as additional titles for that licensor's platform. termination of any such agreements or disapproval of titles could seriously hurt our business and prospects. we may be unable to continue to enter into license agreements for certain current generation platforms on satisfactory terms or at all. failure to enter into any such agreement could also seriously hurt our business. we rely on a limited number of channel partners some of whom influence the fee structures for online distribution of our games on their platforms. we rely on a limited number of channel partners, some of whom have retained the right to change the fee structures for online distribution of both paid content and free content (including patches and corrections) that we license to them for distribution on their platforms. such channel partners' ability to set or influence royalty rates may increase costs, which could negatively affect our operating margins. we may be unable to distribute our content in a cost-effective or profitable manner through such distribution channel, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. outside of fee arrangements, our agreements with our channel partners sometimes give them significant control over other aspects of the distribution of our products and services that we develop for their platform. if our channel partners establish terms that restrict our offerings through their channels, or significantly affect the financial terms on which these products or services are offered to our customers, we may be unable to distribute our product offerings through them or be forced to do so on a materially worse financial or business terms. we may not be able to adequately adjust our cost structure in a timely fashion in response to a sudden decrease in demand. in the event of a significant decline in revenue, we may not be able to dispose of facilities, reduce personnel or make other changes to our cost structure without disruption to our operations or without significant termination and exit costs. management may not be able to implement such actions in a timely manner, if at all, to offset an immediate shortfall in revenue and profit. moreover, reducing costs may impair our ability to produce and develop software titles at sufficient levels in the future. we use open source software in connection with certain of our games and services, which may pose particular risks to our proprietary software, products, and services in a manner that could have a negative impact on our business. we use open source software in connection with certain of our games and the services we offer. some open source software licenses require users who distribute open source software as part of their software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software or make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. the terms of 14 various open source licenses have not been interpreted by courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our use of the open source software. were it determined that our use was not in compliance with a particular license, we may be required to release our proprietary source code, pay damages for breach of contract, re-engineer our games, discontinue distribution in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis or take other remedial action that may divert resources away from our game development efforts, any of which could harm our business. we depend on servers and internet bandwidth to operate our games and digital services with online features. if we were to lose server capacity or lack sufficient internet bandwidth for any reason, our business could suffer. we rely on data servers, including those owned or controlled by third parties, to enable our customers to download our games and other downloadable content, and to operate our online games and other products with online functionality. events such as limited hardware failure, any broad-based catastrophic server malfunction, a significant intrusion by hackers that circumvents security measures, or a failure of disaster recovery services would likely interrupt the functionality of our games with online services and could result in a loss of sales for games and related services. an extended interruption of service could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. we expect a significant portion of our games to be on-line enabled in the future, and therefore we must project our future server needs and make advance purchases of servers or server capacity to accommodate expected business demands. if we underestimate the amount of server capacity our business requires or if our business were to grow more quickly than expected, our consumers may experience service problems, such as slow or interrupted gaming access. insufficient server capacity may result in decreased sales, a loss of our consumer base and adverse consequences to our reputation. conversely, if we overestimate the amount of server capacity required by our business, we may incur additional operating costs. because of the potential importance of our online business to our revenues and results of operations, our ability to access adequate internet bandwidth and online computational resources to support our business is critical. if the price of either such resource increases, we may not be able to increase our prices or subscriber levels to compensate for such costs, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. we submit our products for rating by the entertainment software rating board ("esrb") in the united states and other voluntary or government ratings organizations in foreign countries. failure to obtain a target rating for certain of our products could negatively affect our ability to distribute and sell those games, as could the re-rating of a game for any reason. we voluntarily submit our game products to the esrb, a u.s.-based non-profit and independent ratings organization. the esrb system provides consumers with information about game content using a rating symbol that generally suggests the appropriate player age group and specific content descriptors, such as graphic violence, profanity or sexually explicit material. the esrb may impose significant penalties on game publishers for violations of its rules related to rating or marketing games, including revocation of a rating or monetary fines. other countries require voluntary or government backed ratings as prerequisites for product sales. in some instances, we may have to modify our products in order to market them under the target rating, which could delay or disrupt the release of our products. in addition, some of our titles may not be sold at all or without extensive edits in certain countries, such as germany. in the u.s., if the esrb rates a game as "ao" (age 18 and older), platform licensors may not certify the game and retailers may refuse to sell it. in addition, some consumers have reacted to re-ratings or controversial game content by refusing to purchase such games, demanding refunds for games that they had already purchased, and refraining from buying other games published by us. many of our rockstar titles and certain of our 2k titles have been rated "m" (age 17 and older) by the esrb. if we are unable to obtain "m" ratings and instead receive "ao" ratings on future versions of those or similar titles as a result of changes in the esrb's ratings standards or for other reasons, including the adoption of legislation in this area, our business and prospects could be negatively affected. if any of our games are re-rated by the esrb or other foreign based ratings organizations, we could be exposed to litigation, administrative fines and penalties and other potential liabilities, and our operating results and financial condition could be significantly affected. we have implemented processes to comply with the requirements of the esrb and other ratings organizations and properly display the designated rating symbols and content descriptions. nonetheless, these processes are subject to human error, circumvention, overriding and reasonable resource constraints. if a video game we published were found to contain undisclosed pertinent content, the esrb could re-rate a game, retailers could refuse to sell it and demand that we accept the return of any unsold copies or returns from customers, and consumers could refuse to buy it or demand that we refund their money. this could have a material negative affect on our operating results and financial condition. in addition, we may be exposed to litigation, administrative fines and penalties and our reputation could be harmed, which could affect sales of other video games we sell. if any of these consequences were to occur, our business and financial performance could be significantly harmed. 15 content policies adopted by retailers, consumer opposition and litigation could negatively affect sales of our products. retailers may decline to sell interactive entertainment software containing what they judge to be graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other content that they deem inappropriate for their businesses. if retailers decline to sell our products based upon their opinion that they contain objectionable themes, graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other generally objectionable content, or if any of our previously "m" rated series products are rated "ao," we might be required to significantly change or discontinue particular titles or series, which in the case of our best-selling grand theft auto titles could seriously affect our business. consumer advocacy groups have opposed sales of interactive entertainment software containing objectionable themes, violence or sexual material or other objectionable content by pressing for legislation in these areas and by engaging in public demonstrations and media campaigns. additionally, although lawsuits seeking damages for injuries allegedly suffered by third parties as a result of video games have generally been unsuccessful in the courts, claims of this kind have been asserted against us from time to time and may be asserted and be successful in the future. an increase in the number of lawsuits filed by the families of victims of violence may trigger supplemental governmental scrutiny, damage our reputation, and negatively affect the sale of our products. further, in 2018, gaming disorder was listed in a version of the world health organization's international classification of diseases, and some countries have introduced legislation attempting to address this issue. moreover, the public dialogue concerning interactive entertainment may have an adverse impact on our reputation and our customer's willingness to purchase our products. our results of operations or reputation may be harmed as a result of offensive consumer-created content. we are subject to risks associated with the collaborative online features in our games which allow consumers to post narrative comments, in real time, that are visible to other consumers. from time to time, objectionable and offensive consumer content may be posted to a gaming or other site with online chat features or game forums which allow consumers to post comments. we may be subject to lawsuits, governmental regulation or restrictions, and consumer backlash (including decreased sales and harmed reputation), as a result of consumers posting offensive content. we may also be subject to consumer backlash from comments made in response to postings we make on social media sites such as facebook, youtube and twitter. we are subject to risks and uncertainties of international trade, including fluctuations in the values of local foreign currencies against the dollar. sales in international markets, primarily in europe, have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenue. for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2019 , 46.5% of our net revenue was earned outside the u.s. we are continuing to execute on our growth initiatives in asia, where our strategy is to broaden the distribution of our existing products and expand our online gaming presence, especially in china and south korea. we are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased credit risks, tariffs and duties, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, shipping delays, and international political, regulatory and economic developments, all of which can have a significant influence on our operating results. many of our international sales are made in local currencies, which could fluctuate against the dollar. while we may use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our operating results could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. we face risks from our international operations. we are subject to certain risks because of our international operations, particularly as we continue to grow our business and presence in asia, latin america and other parts of the world. changes to and compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations may increase our cost of doing business and our inability or failure to obtain required approvals could harm our international and domestic sales. trade legislation in either the u.s. or other countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, import/export compliance laws or other trade laws or policies, could adversely affect our ability to sell or to distribute in international markets. the current u.s. administration has voiced concerns about imports from countries potentially engaging in unfair trade practices, increased tariffs on certain goods imported into the u.s. from those countries, including china and other countries to which we sell products, and raised the possibility of imposing significant additional tariff increases. the announcement of tariffs and proposed tariffs on imported products by the u.s. has triggered actions from certain foreign governments, including china, and may trigger additional actions by those and other foreign governments that could have a negative impact on our business. further, the enforcement of regulations relating to mobile and other games with an online element in china remains uncertain, and further changes, either in the regulation or their enforcement could have a negative impact on our business in china. in order to operate in china, all games must have regulatory approval. a decision by the chinese government to revoke its approval for any of our games or to decline to approve any products we desire to sell in china in the future could have a negative impact on our business. we incur additional legal compliance costs associated with our international operations and could become subject to legal penalties in foreign countries if we do not comply with local laws and regulations which may be substantially different from those in the u.s. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by u.s. laws and regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, and by local laws, such as laws 16 prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials. although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, including those based in or from countries where practices which violate such laws may be customary, will not take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. on june 23, 2016, the u.k. held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the e.u., commonly referred to as brexit. on march 29, 2017, the u.k. notified the european council, in accordance with article 50 of the treaty on european union, of the u.k.'s intention to withdraw from the e.u. as a result, the british government has been negotiating the terms of the u.k.'s future relationship with the e.u. a substantial amount of uncertainty remains regarding the outcome of the ongoing negotiations. we continue to assess and monitor the risks our business is likely to face as a result of brexit. we are preparing to mitigate those risks with operational and commercial changes to the extent possible and warranted. however, the legal and regulatory landscape remains uncertain, and we have no assurance that such preparations will enable us to avoid a material adverse impact on our business from brexit. the effects of brexit will depend on any agreements the u.k. makes to retain access to the e.u. markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. the measures could potentially disrupt the markets we serve and may cause us to lose customers, distributors and employees. if the u.k. loses access to the single e.u. market and the global trade deals negotiated by the e.u., it could have a detrimental impact on our u.k. growth. such a decline could also make our doing business in europe more difficult, which could negatively affect sales to consumers of our products. without access to the single e.u. market, it may be more challenging and costly to distribute our products in europe. in addition, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the u.k. determines which e.u. laws to replace and replicate. if there are changes to u.k. immigration policy as a result of brexit, this could affect our employees and their ability to move freely between the e.u. member states for work related matters. if we are unable to protect the intellectual property relating to our software, the commercial value of our products will be adversely affected and our competitive position could be harmed. we develop proprietary software and have obtained the rights to publish and distribute software developed by third-parties. we attempt to protect our software and production techniques under patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as well as through contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and distribution. nonetheless, our software is susceptible to piracy and unauthorized copying, and third parties may potentially exploit or misappropriate our intellectual property and proprietary information, causing significant reputational damage. unauthorized third parties, for example, may be able to copy or to reverse engineer our software to obtain and use programming or production techniques that we regard as proprietary. well organized piracy operations have also proliferated in recent years, resulting in the ability to download pirated copies of our software over the internet. although we attempt to incorporate protective measures into our software, piracy of our products could negatively affect our future profitability. in addition, "cheating" programs or other unauthorized software tools and modifications that enable consumers to cheat in games harm the experience of players who play fairly and could negatively impact the volume of microtransactions or purchases of downloadable content. also, vulnerabilities in the design of our applications and of the platforms upon which they run could be discovered after their release. this may lead to lost revenues from paying consumers or increased cost of developing technological measures to respond to these, either of which could negatively affect our business. if we infringe on or are alleged to infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, our business could be adversely affected. as our industry grows, we may be subject to an increasing amount of litigation that is common in the software industry based on allegations of infringement or other alleged violations of patent, copyright and/or trademarks. in addition, we believe that interactive entertainment software will increasingly become the subject of claims that such software infringes on the intellectual property rights of others with both the growth of online functionality and advances in technology, game content and software graphics as games become more realistic. from time to time, we receive notices from third parties or are named in lawsuits by third parties alleging infringement of their proprietary rights. although we believe that our software and technologies and the software and technologies of third-party developers and publishers with whom we have contractual relations do not and will not infringe or violate proprietary rights of others, it is possible that infringement of proprietary rights of others may occur. any claims of infringement, with or without merit, could be time consuming, costly and difficult to defend. moreover, intellectual property litigation or claims could require us to discontinue the distribution of products, obtain a license or redesign our products, which could result in additional substantial costs and material delays. our software is susceptible to errors, which can harm our financial results and reputation. the technological advancements of new hardware platforms result in the development of more complex software products. as software products become more complex, the risk of undetected errors in new products increases. we may need to produce and 17 distribute patches in order to repair such errors, which could be costly and may distract our developers from working on new products. if, despite testing, errors are found in new products or releases after shipments have been made, we may have to consider suspending distribution of defective products or offering refunds, and we could experience a loss of or delay in timely market acceptance, product returns, loss of revenue, increases in costs relating to the repair of such errors and damage to our reputation. if we acquire or invest in other businesses, intellectual properties or other assets, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired and/or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for such transactions. if appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may acquire or make investments in businesses, intellectual properties and other assets that we believe are strategic. we may not be able to identify, negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment successfully. even if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a business, intellectual property or other asset, such acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including: retaining key employees and maintaining the key business and customer relationships of the businesses we acquire; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from an acquired company or business into our organization; the possibility that the combined company would not achieve the expected benefits, including any anticipated operating and product synergies, of the acquisition as quickly as anticipated or that the costs of, or operational difficulties arising from, an acquisition would be greater than anticipated; significant acquisition-related accounting adjustments, particularly relating to an acquired company's deferred revenue, that may cause reported revenue and profits of the combined company to be lower than the sum of their stand-alone revenue and profits; significant accounting charges resulting from the completion and integration of a sizable acquisition and increased capital expenditures, including potential impairment charges incurred to write down the carrying amount of intangible assets generated as a result of an acquisition; the possibility that significant acquisitions, when not managed cautiously, may result in the over-extension of our existing operating infrastructures, internal controls and information technology systems; the possibility that we will not discover important facts during due diligence that could have a material adverse effect on the value of the businesses we acquire, including the possibility that a change of control of a company we acquire triggers a termination of contractual or intellectual property rights important to the operation of its business; the need to integrate an acquired company's accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management and timely reporting, and the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company in an acquired company that, prior to the acquisition, lacked these controls, procedures and policies; litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risks as a result of, an acquisition, including claims from terminated employees, customers or other third-parties; and to the extent that we engage in strategic transactions outside of the u.s., we face additional risks, including risks related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. future acquisitions and investments could also involve the issuance of our equity and equity-linked securities (potentially diluting our existing stockholders), the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, write-offs of goodwill, intangibles, or acquired in-process technology, or other increased cash and non-cash expenses such as stock-based compensation. any of the foregoing factors could harm our financial condition or prevent us from achieving improvements in our financial condition and operating performance that could have otherwise been achieved by us on a stand-alone basis. our stockholders may not have the opportunity to review, vote on or evaluate future acquisitions or investments. our ability to acquire and maintain licenses to intellectual property, especially for sports titles, affects our revenue and profitability. competition for these licenses may make them more expensive and increase our costs. certain of our products are based on or incorporate intellectual property owned by others. for example, certain of our 2k products include rights licensed from major sports leagues and players' associations. similarly, some of our other titles are based on licenses of popular entertainment products. competition for these licenses is intense. if we are unable to maintain and renew these licenses or obtain additional licenses on reasonable economic terms or with significant commercial value, our revenue and profitability could decline significantly. competition for these licenses may also increase the advances, guarantees and royalties that we must 18 pay to the licensor, which could significantly increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability. in addition, on certain intellectual property licenses, we are subject to guaranteed minimum payments, royalties or standards of performance and may not be able to terminate these agreements prior to their stated expiration. if such licensed products do not generate revenues in excess of such minimum guarantees, our profitability will be adversely affected. we are subject to contractual covenants which place certain limitations on how we manage our business . our new credit agreement (the "new credit agreement") may limit our ability to take various actions, including incurring additional debt, paying dividends, repurchasing shares and acquiring or disposing of assets or businesses. in addition, we have granted a security interest in connection with certain compensatory arrangements which limits our ability to incur senior debt in excess of certain amounts. accordingly, we may be restricted from taking actions that management believes would be desirable and in the best interests of us and our stockholders. our new credit agreement also requires us to satisfy specified financial covenants and comply with other affirmative and negative covenants. a breach of any of the covenants contained in our new credit agreement could result in an event of default, which would allow our lenders to pursue various remedies, including accelerating the repayment of any outstanding indebtedness under our new credit agreement. our business and products are subject to potential legislation. the adoption of such proposed legislation could limit the retail market for our products. several proposals have been made for federal legislation to regulate our industry. such proposals seek to prohibit the sale of products containing certain content included in some of our games. if any such proposals are enacted into law, it may limit the potential market for some of our games in the u.s., and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. other countries, such as germany, have adopted laws regulating content both in packaged games and those transmitted over the internet that are stricter than current u.s. laws. in the u.s., proposals have also been made by numerous state legislators to regulate and prohibit the sale of interactive entertainment software products containing certain types of violent or sexual content to under 17 or 18 audiences, such as the state of california's "ultraviolent video games law" that sought to ban the sale or rental of violent video games to minors. while such legislation to date has been enjoined by industry and retail groups or been found unconstitutional, the adoption into law of such legislation in federal and/or in state jurisdictions in which we do significant business could severely limit the retail market for some of our games. change in government regulations relating to the internet could have a negative impact on our business. we rely on our consumers' access to significant levels of internet bandwidth for the sale and digital delivery of our content and the functionality of our games with online features. changes in laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the internet, including laws affecting "net neutrality," could decrease the demand for our products and services or increase our cost of doing business. although certain jurisdictions have implemented laws and regulations intended to prevent internet service providers from discriminating against particular types of legal traffic on their networks, other jurisdictions may lack such laws and regulations or repeal existing laws or regulations. for example, on december 14, 2017, the federal communications commission voted to repeal net neutrality regulations in the u.s. given uncertainty around these rules, including changing interpretations, amendments, or repeal, coupled with the potentially significant political and economic power of local internet service providers and the relatively significant level of internet bandwidth access our products and services require, we could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede our growth, cause us to incur additional expenses, or otherwise negatively affect our business. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill becomes impaired. we are required under u.s. generally accepted accounting principles to review our goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating a requirement to reevaluate whether our goodwill continues to be recoverable, include a significant decline in stock price and market capitalization, slower growth rates in our industry or other materially adverse events. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill is determined. this may adversely affect our operating results. our reported financial results could be adversely affected by the application of existing or future accounting standards to our business as it evolves. our reported financial results are affected by the accounting policies promulgated by the sec and national accounting standards bodies and the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies. for example, standards regarding revenue recognition have and could further significantly affect the way we account for revenue related to our products and services. we expect that an increasing number of our games will be supported with material post-release activities, such as content updates and online-enabled features, and we could therefore be required to recognize more of the related revenues for those games over 19 a period of time rather than at the time of sale. further, as we increase our downloadable content and add new features to our online services, user playing patterns can affect our estimate of the service period may change and we could be required to recognize revenues, and defer related costs, over a shorter or longer period of time than we initially allocated. as we enhance, expand and diversify our business and product offerings, the application of existing or future financial accounting standards, particularly those relating to the way we account for revenue, could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results although not necessarily on our cash flows. we are subject to risks related to corporate and social responsibility and reputation. many factors influence our reputation including the perception held by our customers, business partners and other key stakeholders. our business faces increasing scrutiny related to environmental, social and governance activities. we risk damage to our reputation if we fail to act responsibly in a number of areas, such as diversity and inclusion, environmental stewardship, supply chain management, climate change, workplace conduct, human rights and philanthropy. any harm to our reputation could impact employee engagement and retention and the willingness of customers and our partners to do business with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. risks relating to our common stock for purposes of this section "risks relating to our common stock," references to "the company," "we," "our," and "us" refer only to take-two interactive software, inc. and not to its subsidiaries. additional issuances or sales of equity securities by us would dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. we may issue equity or equity-based securities in the future in connection with acquisitions or strategic transactions, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, including through repayment of outstanding debt, to fund expansion of our operations or for other purposes. to the extent we issue additional equity securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders would be reduced. the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect its price. the sale or the availability for sale of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause the price of our common stock to decline. there is no guarantee that we will do additional share repurchases in the future. the share repurchase program authorized by the board of directors, which authorized the repurchase of up to 14.2 million shares of our common stock and had 3.8 million shares available for repurchase as of the date of this filing, does not obligate us to make any purchases at any specific time or situation. discontinuing repurchases could adversely affect the price of our common stock. the program may be suspended or discontinued at any time for any reason. our stock price has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate significantly. the market price of our common stock historically has been, and we expect will continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations. these fluctuations may be due to factors specific to us including those discussed in the risk factors in this section as well as others not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material, to changes in securities analysts' earnings estimates or ratings, to our results or future financial guidance falling below our expectations and analysts' and investors' expectations, to factors affecting the computer, software, entertainment, media or electronics industries, or to national or international economic conditions. stock markets, in general, have experienced over the years, and continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected market prices for companies such as ours and that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. delaware law, our charter documents, and provisions of our debt agreements may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline. we are a delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. our board of directors has the power, without stockholder approval, to adopt a stockholder rights plan and/or to designate the terms of one or more series of preferred stock and issue shares of preferred stock. the ability of our board of directors to create and issue a new series of preferred stock and certain provisions of delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market price of our common stock and the value of any outstanding notes. 20 our ability to use net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards to reduce future years' taxes could be substantially limited under internal revenue code sections 382 and 383 if we experience an ownership change as defined in the internal revenue code section 382. section 382 of the internal revenue code contains rules that limit the ability of a company to use its net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards in years after an ownership change, which is generally defined as any change in ownership of more than 50% of its stock over a three-year testing period. these rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes among stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of the stock of a company and/or any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by the company. if, as a result of future transactions involving our common stock, including purchases or sales of stock by 5% stockholders, we undergo cumulative ownership changes which exceed 50% over the testing period, our ability to use our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards would be subject to additional limitations under sections 382 and 383. generally, if an ownership change occurs, the annual taxable income limitation on the use of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards is equal to the product of the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate and the value of the company's stock immediately before the ownership change. depending on the resulting limitation, a portion of our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards could expire before we would be able to use them. our inability to fully utilize any net operating losses or tax credit carryforwards to reduce tax liability in the future could have a material and negative affect on our future financial position and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential loss arising from fluctuations in market rates and prices. our market risk exposures primarily include fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rate risk our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates relates primarily to our short-term investment portfolio and variable rate debt under the new credit agreement. we seek to manage our interest rate risk by maintaining a short-term investment portfolio that includes corporate bonds with high credit quality and maturities less than two years. since short-term investments mature relatively quickly and can be reinvested at the then-current market rates, interest income on a portfolio consisting of short-term securities is more subject to market fluctuations than a portfolio of longer-term maturities. however, the fair value of a short-term portfolio is less sensitive to market fluctuations than a portfolio of longer-term securities. we do not currently use derivative financial instruments in our short-term investment portfolio. our investments are held for purposes other than trading. as of march 31, 2019 , we had $744.5 million of short-term investments, which included $356.8 million of available-for-sale securities. the available-for-sale securities were recorded at fair market value with unrealized gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, in stockholders' equity. we also had $826.5 million of cash and cash equivalents that are comprised primarily of money market funds and bank-time deposits. we determined that, based on the composition of our investment portfolio, there was no material interest rate risk exposure to our consolidated financial statements or liquidity as of march 31, 2019 . historically, fluctuations in interest rates have not had a significant effect on our operating results. under our new credit agreement, loans will bear interest at a rate of (a) 0.250% to 0.750% above a certain base rate ( 5.50% at march 31, 2019 ) or (b) 1.125% to 1.750% above libor (approximately 2.49% at march 31, 2019 ), which rates are determined by reference to our consolidated total net leverage ratio. changes in market rates may affect our future interest expense if there is an outstanding balance on our line of credit. at march 31, 2019 , there were no outstanding borrowings under our new credit agreement. foreign currency exchange rate risk we transact business in foreign currencies and are exposed to risks resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. accounts relating to foreign operations are translated into united states dollars using prevailing exchange rates at the relevant period end. translation adjustments are included as a separate component of stockholders' equity on our consolidated balance sheets. for the fiscal years ended march 31, 2019 and 2018 , our foreign currency translation adjustment was a loss of $28.8 million and a gain of $43.4 million , respectively. we recognized a foreign currency exchange transaction loss of $0.5 million , a loss of $3.0 million , and a gain of $5.0 million for the fiscal years ended march 31, 2019 , 2018 , and 2017 , respectively, in interest and other, net in our consolidated statements of operations. balance sheet hedging activities we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with non-functional currency denominated cash balances and inter-company funding loans, non-functional currency denominated accounts receivable and non-functional currency denominated accounts payable. these transactions are not designated as hedging instruments and are accounted for as derivatives whereby the fair value of the contracts is reported as either assets or liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, and gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair value are reported in interest and other, net, in our consolidated statements of operations. we do not enter into derivative financial contracts for speculative or trading purposes. at march 31, 2019 , we had $116.6 million of forward contracts outstanding to buy foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars and $87.8 million of forward contracts outstanding to sell foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars all of which have maturities of less than one year. at march 31, 2018 , we had $4.4 million of forward contracts outstanding to buy foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars and $67.6 million of forward contracts outstanding to sell foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars all of which have maturities of less than one year. for the fiscal years ended march 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , we recorded a gain of $16.8 million , a loss of $19.5 million , and a gain of $7.2 million , respectively, related to foreign currency forward contracts in interest and other, net on the consolidated statements of operations. as of march 31, 2019 and 2018 , the fair value of these outstanding forward contracts were losses of $0.4 million and $0.0 million , respectively, and is included in accrued and other current liabilities. the fair value of these outstanding forward contracts is estimated based on the prevailing exchange rates of the various hedged currencies as of the end of the period. our hedging programs are designed to reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the effect of currency exchange rate movements. we believe the counterparties to these foreign currency forward contracts are credit-worthy multinational commercial banks and that the risk of counterparty nonperformance is not material. notwithstanding our efforts to mitigate some foreign 42 currency exchange rate risks, there can be no assurance that our hedging activities will adequately protect us against the risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations. for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2019 , 46.5% of our revenue was generated outside the united states. using sensitivity analysis, a hypothetical 10% increase in the value of the u.s. dollar against all currencies would decrease revenue by 4.7% , while a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of the u.s. dollar against all currencies would increase revenue by 4.7% . in the opinion of management, a substantial portion of this fluctuation would be offset by cost of goods sold and operating expenses incurred in local currency.risk factors 6 risk factors our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. because of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other factors affecting our operating results and financial condition, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance and our business and financial performance could be harmed and the market value of our securities could decline. risks relating to our business we are dependent on the future success of our grand theft auto products and we must continue to publish "hit" titles or sequels to such "hit" titles in order to compete successfully in our industry. grand theft auto and certain of our other titles, such as red dead redemption or nba 2k , are "hit" products and have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our revenue. grand theft auto products contributed 23.0% of our net revenue for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2020, and the five best-selling franchises (including grand theft auto ), which may change year over year, in the aggregate accounted for 87.4% of our net revenue for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2020. if we fail to continue to develop and sell new commercially successful "hit" titles or sequels to such "hit" titles or experience any delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our "hit" titles or their sequels, our revenue and profits may decrease substantially and we may incur losses. in addition, competition in our industry is intense and a relatively small number of hit titles account for a large portion of total revenue in our industry. hit products offered by our competitors may take a larger share of consumer spending than we anticipate, which could cause revenue generated from our products to fall below our expectations. if our competitors develop more successful products or services at lower price points or based on payment models perceived as offering better value, or if we do not continue to develop consistently high quality and well-received products and services, our revenue and profitability may decline. in addition, both the online and mobile games marketplaces are characterized by frequent product introductions, relatively low barriers to entry, and new and evolving business methods, technologies and platforms for development. widespread consumer adoption of these new platforms for games and other technological advances in and/or new business or payment models in online or mobile game offerings could negatively affect our sales of console and traditional pc products before we have an opportunity to develop profitable businesses in such markets. our results of operations may be materially adversely impacted by the coronavirus pandemic (covid-19). our results of operations may be materially adversely affected by covid-19. the global spread of covid-19 has created significant uncertainty, resulting in volatility and economic disruption. the extent to which covid-19 has an impact on our business, operations and financial results will depend on numerous evolving factors that we may not be able to accurately predict, including the duration and scope of the pandemic; governmental, business and individuals' actions that have been and continue to be taken in response to the pandemic; economic activity and related actions taken in response to the pandemic; the effect on consumer demand for our products and the discretionary spending patterns of our customers, including the ability of our customers to pay for our products; our ability to develop, market, and sell our products, including as a result of 6 travel restrictions and people working from home; the impact on the operations of our counterparties, including the physical retail, digital download online platforms, and cloud streaming services we rely on for the distribution of our products, the suppliers who manufacture our physical products, and other third parties with which we partner (e.g. to market or ship our products); any closures of our, our customers', and counterparties' offices and facilities; additional volatility in exchange rates; the impact of potential inflation; and the impact of reductions in interest rates by the federal reserve and other central banks, including on our short-term investment portfolio. further, shelter-in-place, quarantine, or other such initiatives by governmental entities could also disrupt our operations. in such situations, if employees or third-party developers who cannot optimally perform their responsibilities from home are not able to or are unwilling to report to work, we may experience material interruptions in product development and delays in bringing products to market. such circumstances may also impact the effectiveness of the company's quality controls and game testing measures. an increase in the number of employees working remotely also increases the potential adverse impact of risk associated with information technology systems and networks, including cyber-attacks, computer viruses, malicious software, security breach, and telecommunication failures, both for systems and networks we control directly and for those that employees and third-party developers rely on to work remotely. any failure to prevent or mitigate security breaches or cyber risks or detect, or respond adequately to, a security breach or cyber risk, or any other disruptions to our information technology systems and networks, can have adverse effects on our business. the spread of covid-19 has caused us to modify our business practices (including employee travel, employee work locations, and cancellation of physical participation in meetings, events and conferences), and we may take further actions as may be required by government authorities or that we determine are in the best interests of our employees, customers and business partners. further, key personnel could contract covid-19 hindering their availability and productivity. additionally, sports organizations' operations and seasons may be altered or even canceled based on the response to covid-19. such events could affect the demand for our sports titles. while we have developed and continue to develop plans to help mitigate the negative impact of the outbreak on our business, these efforts may not be effective, and a protracted economic downturn may limit the effectiveness of our mitigation efforts. any of these considerations described above could cause or contribute to the risks described elsewhere herein and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or stock price. we are subject to product development risks which could result in delays and additional costs, and we must adapt to changes in software technologies. we depend on our internal development studios and third-party software developers to develop new interactive entertainment software within anticipated release schedules and cost projections. the development cycle for new titles generally ranges from 12 months for annual sports releases, to multiple years for certain of our top-selling titles. therefore, our development costs can be substantial. if we or our third-party developers experience unanticipated development delays, financial difficulties, or additional costs, for example as a result of the coronavirus pandemic (covid-19), we may not be able to release titles according to our schedule and at budgeted costs. there can be no assurance that our products will be sufficiently successful so that we can recoup these costs or make a profit on these products. additionally, in order to stay competitive, our internal development studios must anticipate and adapt to rapid technological changes affecting software development, such as cloud-based game streaming. any inability to respond to technological advances and implement new technologies could render our products obsolete or less marketable. further, the failure to pursue the development of new technology, platforms, or business models that obtain meaningful commercial success in a timely manner may negatively affect our business, resulting in increased production or development costs and more strenuous competition. the inability of our products to achieve significant market acceptance, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of our products may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. new products may not achieve significant market acceptance, generate sufficient sales, or be introduced in a timely manner to permit us to recover development, manufacturing and marketing costs associated with these products. the life cycle of a title generally involves a relatively high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. because sales associated with an initial product launch generally constitute a high percentage of the total sales associated with the life of a product, delays in product releases or disruptions following the commercial release of one or more new products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results and therefore cause our operating results to be materially different from our expectations. 7 our business is subject to our ability to develop commercially successful products for the current video game platforms. we derive most of our revenue from the sale of products made for video game platforms manufactured by third parties, such as sony's ps4 and microsoft's xbox one, which comprised 74.7% of our net revenue by product platform for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2020. the success of our business is subject to the continued popularity of these platforms and our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. in 2020, we expect sony and microsoft to launch their respective next generation consoles, although covid-19 or other events may impact the timing of release and availability of these new consoles. when next generation consoles are announced or introduced into the market, consumers have typically reduced their purchases of products for prior-generation consoles in anticipation of purchasing a next-generation console and products for that console. during these periods, sales of the products we publish may decline until new platforms achieve wide consumer acceptance. console transitions may have a comparable impact on sales of downloadable content, amplifying the impact on our revenues. this decline may not be offset by increased sales of products for the next-generation consoles. in addition, as console hardware moves through its life cycle, hardware manufacturers typically enact price reductions, and decreasing prices may put downward pressure on software prices. during console transitions, we may simultaneously incur costs both in continuing to develop and market new titles for prior-generation video game platforms, which may not sell at premium prices, and also in developing products for next-generation platforms, which may not generate immediate or near-term revenues. as a result, our business and operating results may be more volatile and difficult to predict during console transitions than during other times. we may experience declines or fluctuations in the recurring portion of our business. our business model includes revenue that we expect to be recurring in nature, such as revenue from our annualized titles and associated services, and ongoing mobile businesses. while we have been able to forecast the revenue from these areas of our business with greater certainty than for new offerings, we cannot provide assurances that consumers will purchase these games and services on a consistent basis. furthermore, we may cease to offer games and services that we previously had deemed to be recurring in nature. consumer purchases of our games and services may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our games and services, our ability to improve and innovate our annualized titles, our ability to adapt our games and services to new platforms, outages and disruptions of online services, the games and services offered by our competitors, our marketing and advertising efforts or declines in consumer activity generally as a result of economic downturns, for example as a result of covid-19, among others. any decline or fluctuation in this portion of our business may have a negative impact on our financial and operating results. connectivity issues could affect our ability to sell and provide online services for our products and could affect our profitability. we rely upon third-party digital delivery platforms, such as microsoft's xbox live, playstation network, steam, epic, and other third-party service providers, to provide connectivity from the consumer to our digital products and our online services. connectivity issues could prevent customers from accessing this content and our ability to successfully market and sell our products could be adversely affected. given the increasing global usage of online platforms as a result of the covid-19 pandemic, the risks of connectivity issues may be heightened. in addition, we could experience similar issues related to services we host on our internal servers. such issues also could affect our ability to provide game-related services and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we rely on complex information technology systems and networks to operate our business. any significant system or network disruption could have a negative impact on our business. we rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and networks, some of which are within take-two and some of which are managed and/or hosted by third-party providers. all information technology systems and networks are potentially vulnerable to damage or interruption from a variety of sources, including but not limited to cyber-attacks, computer viruses, malicious software, security breach, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. we may also face sophisticated attacks, referred to as advanced persistent threats, which are cyber-attacks aimed at compromising our intellectual property and other commercially-sensitive information, such as the source code and game assets for our software or confidential customer or employee information, which remain undetected for prolonged periods of time. information technology system, network failures, or security breaches could negatively affect our business continuity, operations and financial results. these risks extend to the networks and e-commerce sites of console platform providers and other partners who sell or host our content online. the risk of such threats may be heightened as a result of an extended period of remote work arrangements due to covid-19. along with our partners, we have expended, and expect to continue to expend, financial and operational resources to implement certain systems, processes and technologies to guard against cyber risks and to help protect our data and systems. however, the techniques used to exploit, disable, damage, disrupt or gain access to our networks, our products and services, supporting technological infrastructure, 8 intellectual property and other assets change frequently, continue to evolve in sophistication and volume, and often are not detected for long periods of time. our systems, processes and technologies, and the systems, processes and technologies of our business partners or our third-party service providers, may not be adequate against all eventualities. in addition, the costs to respond to, mitigate, and/or notify affected parties of cyber-attacks and other security vulnerabilities are significant. any failure to prevent or mitigate security breaches or cyber risks, or detect or respond adequately to a security breach or cyber risk, could result in a loss of anticipated revenue, interruptions to our products and services, cause us to incur significant remediation and notification costs, degrade the user experience, cause consumers to lose confidence in our products and services and significant legal and financial costs. additionally, applicable insurance policies may be insufficient to reimburse the company for all such losses, and it is uncertain whether we will be able to maintain the current level of insurance coverage in the future on reasonable terms or at all. successful exploitation of our systems can have other negative effects upon the products, services and user experience we offer. in particular, the virtual economies that we have established in many of our games are subject to abuse, exploitation and other forms of fraudulent activity that can negatively affect our business. virtual economies involve the use of virtual currency and/or virtual assets that can be used or redeemed by a player within a particular game or service. although we have implemented and continue to develop programs reasonably designed to prevent such negative impacts, the abuse or exploitation of our virtual economies can include the illegitimate generation and sale of virtual items in black markets. these kinds of activities and the steps that we take to address and prevent these issues may result in a loss of anticipated revenue, interfere with players' enjoyment of a balanced game environment and cause reputational harm. our business could be adversely affected if our consumer data protection measures are not seen as adequate or there are breaches of our security measures or unintended disclosures of our consumer data. we are collecting and storing consumer information, including personal information. we take measures to protect our consumer information from unauthorized access or disclosure. it is possible that our security controls over consumer information may not prevent the improper access or disclosure of personal information. in addition, due to the high-profile nature of our products, we may draw a disproportionately higher amount of attention and attempts to breach our security controls than companies with lower profile products. a security incident that leads to disclosure of consumer information (including personal information) could harm our reputation, compel us to comply with disparate breach notification laws in various jurisdictions and otherwise subject us to liability under laws that protect personal information, any of which could result in increased costs or loss of revenue. a resulting perception that our products or services do not adequately protect the privacy of personal information could result in a loss of current or potential consumers and business partners. in addition, if any of our business partners experience a security incident that leads to disclosure of consumer information, our reputation could be harmed, resulting in loss of revenue. in addition, certain of our products are online enabled. the ability of our products to offer online functionality, and our ability to offer content through a video game platform's digital distribution channel, is dependent upon the continued operation and security of such platform's online network. these third party networks, as well as our own internal systems and websites, and the related security measures may be breached as a result of third-party action, including intentional misconduct by computer hackers, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and result in someone obtaining unauthorized access to our customers' information or our data including our intellectual property and other confidential business information or our information technology systems. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. if an actual or perceived breach of our safeguards occurs, we may lose business, suffer irreparable damage to our reputation, and/or incur significant costs and expenses relating to the investigation and possible litigation of claims relating to such event. the laws and regulations concerning data privacy and certain other aspects of our business are continually evolving. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could harm our business. we are subject to certain privacy and data protection laws, including those in the united states ("u.s."). certain activities related to processing the personal data of individuals in the european union ("e.u.") are conducted by our united kingdom ("u.k.")-based data controller or our local entities in the e.u. the u.s. children's online privacy protection act also regulates the collection, use, and disclosure of personal information from children under 13 years of age. failure to comply with privacy and data protection laws or age restrictions may increase our costs, subject us to expensive and distracting government investigations, and result in substantial fines, or result in lawsuits and claims against us to the extent these laws include a private right of action. privacy and data protection laws are rapidly changing and likely will continue to do so for the foreseeable future, which could have an impact on our approach to operating and marketing our games. for example, the e.u. general data protection regulation ("gdpr") became effective on may 25, 2018, replacing data protection directive 95/46/ec. gdpr 9 applies to us because we receive and process the personal information of individuals in the e.u., and we maintain certain local entities in the e.u. responsible for processing personal information. gdpr contains significant penalties for non-compliance. countries in the e.u. are still enacting national laws that correspond to certain portions of the gdpr. in the u.s., the california consumer privacy act ("ccpa") became effective on january 1, 2020 and applies to processing of personal information of california residents. other states, including nevada, have enacted or are considering similar privacy or data protection laws that may apply to us. the u.s. government, including the federal trade commission and the department of commerce, also continue to review the need for greater or different regulation over the collection of personal information and information about consumer behavior on the internet and on mobile devices, and the u.s. congress is considering a number of legislative proposals to regulate in this area. various government and consumer agencies worldwide have also called for new regulation and changes in industry practices. player use of our games is subject to our privacy policy, end user license agreements ("eula"), and terms of service. if we fail to comply with our posted privacy policy, eula, or terms of service, or if we fail to comply with existing privacy or data protection laws and regulations, it could result in proceedings or litigation against us by governmental authorities or others, which could result in fines or judgments against us, damage our reputation, affect our financial condition, and harm our business. if regulators, the media, or consumers raise any concerns about our privacy and data protection or consumer protection practices, even if unfounded, this could also result in fines or judgments against us, damage our reputation, negatively affect our financial condition, and damage our business. it is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted or construed to apply to us in the u.s. and elsewhere that could restrict the interactive entertainment industry, including player privacy, advertising, taxation, content suitability, copyright, distribution, and antitrust. furthermore, the growth and development of electronic commerce and virtual goods may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on companies such as ours conducting business through digital sales. any such changes would require us to devote legal and other resources to address such regulation. for example, existing laws or new laws regarding the regulation of currency, banking institutions, and unclaimed property may be interpreted to cover virtual currency or virtual goods. if that were to occur we may be required to seek licenses, authorizations, or approvals from relevant regulators, the granting of which may be dependent on us meeting certain capital and other requirements and we may be subject to additional regulation and oversight, all of which could significantly increase our operating costs. changes in current laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws and regulations in the u.s. or elsewhere regarding these activities may lessen the growth of the interactive entertainment industry and impair our business, financial condition, and operating results. although we have structured and operate our skill tournaments with applicable laws in mind, including any applicable laws relating to gambling, and believe that playing these games does not constitute gambling, our skill tournaments could in the future become subject to gambling-related rules and regulations and expose us to civil and criminal penalties. we also sometimes offer consumers of our online and casual games various types of contests and promotional opportunities. we are subject to laws in a number of jurisdictions concerning the operation and offering of such activities and games, many of which are still evolving and could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business. further, some of our online games and other services include random digital item mechanics, which may become subject to regulations in various jurisdictions. if these were to occur, we might be required to seek licenses, authorizations, or approvals from relevant regulators, the granting of which may be dependent on us meeting certain capital and other requirements, and we may be subject to additional regulation and oversight, such as reporting to regulators, all of which could significantly increase our operating costs. changes in current laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws and regulations in the u.s., the e.u., or elsewhere regarding these activities may lessen the growth of online or casual game services and impair our business. also, existing laws or new laws regarding the marketing of in-game or in-app purchases, regulation of currency, banking institutions, unclaimed property, or money laundering may be interpreted to cover virtual currency or goods. security breaches involving the source code for our products or other sensitive and proprietary information could adversely affect our business. we securely store the source code for our interactive entertainment software products as it is created. a breach, whether physical, electronic or otherwise, of the systems on which such source code and other sensitive data are stored could lead to damage or piracy of our software. in addition, certain parties with whom we do business are given access to our sensitive and proprietary information in order to provide services and support our team. these third parties may misappropriate our information and engage in unauthorized use of it. if we or these third parties are subject to data security breaches, we may have a loss in sales or increased costs arising from the restoration or implementation of additional security measures which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. any theft and/or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an event could adversely affect our competitive position, reputation, brand, and future sales of our products. our business could be subject to significant disruption, and we could suffer monetary and other losses and reputational harm, in the event of such incidents and claims. 10 our efforts to expand into new products and services may subject us to additional risks. in recent years, we have continued to invest in emerging opportunities in interactive entertainment played on mobile platforms, including tablets and smartphones, and online platforms, including social networks. we have also grown our product offerings that are available through digital download, including virtual currency, through our existing franchises such as grand theft auto and nba 2k, as well as through our mobile product offerings. we are actively investing to capitalize on these trends in order to diversify our product mix, reduce our operating risks, and increase our revenue. there are risks and uncertainties associated with these efforts, particularly in instances where the markets are not fully developed. there is no assurance that we will be able to attract a sufficiently large number of customers or recover costs incurred for developing and marketing any of these new products or services. for example, we may offer games that do not attract sufficient purchases of virtual currency, which may cause our investments into this product space, such as through our acquisition of social point, to fail to realize the expected benefits. external factors, such as competitive alternatives and shifting market preferences, may also have an impact on the successful implementation of any new products or services. failure to successfully manage these risks in the development and implementation of new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we depend on our key management and product development personnel. our continued success will depend to a significant extent on our senior management team and our relationship with zelnickmedia corporation ("zelnickmedia"). our executive chairman/chief executive officer and president are partners of zelnickmedia. we are also highly dependent on the expertise, skills and knowledge of our key creative personnel responsible for content creation and development of our grand theft auto and other hit titles and titles based on other brands. we may not be able to continue to retain these personnel at current compensation levels, or at all. the loss of the services of our executive officers, zelnickmedia, or certain key creative personnel could significantly harm our business. in addition, if one or more key employees were to join a competitor or form a competing company, we may lose additional personnel, experience material interruptions in product development, delays in bringing products to market and difficulties in our relationships with licensors, suppliers and customers, which would significantly harm our business. failure to continue to attract and retain qualified management and creative personnel could adversely affect our business and prospects. declines in consumer spending and other adverse changes in the economy could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. most of our products involve discretionary spending on the part of consumers. we believe that consumer spending is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. this makes our products particularly sensitive to general economic conditions and economic cycles as consumers are generally more willing to make discretionary purchases, including purchases of products like ours, during periods in which favorable economic conditions prevail. adverse economic conditions, such as a prolonged u.s. or international general economic downturn, such as those caused by covid-19, including periods of increased inflation, unemployment levels, tax rates, interest rates, energy prices, or declining consumer confidence, could also reduce consumer spending. reduced consumer spending has and may in the future continue to result in reduced demand for our products and may also require increased selling and promotional expenses, which has had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, during periods of relative economic weakness, our consolidated credit risk, reflecting our counterparty dealings with distributors, customers, capital providers and others may increase, perhaps materially so. as a result of covid-19, our counterparty credit risk may be particularly exacerbated, as certain of our counterparties may face financial difficulties in paying owed amounts on a timely basis or at all. furthermore, uncertainty and adverse changes in the economy could also increase the risk of material losses on our investments, increase costs associated with developing and publishing our products, increase the cost and availability of sources of financing, and increase our exposure to material losses from bad debts, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. if economic conditions worsen, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. we are particularly susceptible to market conditions and risks associated with the entertainment industry, which, in addition to general macroeconomic downturns, also include the popularity, price, and timing of our products; changes in consumer demographics; the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment and leisure; and critical reviews and public tastes and preferences, which may change rapidly and cannot necessarily be predicted. changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. we are a multinational corporation with operations in the u.s. and various other jurisdictions around the world. accordingly, we are subject to tax in the u.s. and in various other jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes, and, in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are required to estimate future taxes. although we currently believe our 11 tax estimates are reasonable, the estimation process is inherently uncertain, and such estimates are not binding on tax authorities. further, our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by a variety of factors, including changes in the business, the mix of earnings between countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax elections, and changes in applicable tax laws. additionally, tax determinations are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities, and developments in those audits could adversely affect our income tax provision. should the ultimate tax liability exceed estimates, our income tax provision and net income or loss could be materially affected. in addition, numerous countries are evaluating their existing tax laws due in part to recommendations made by the organization for economic co-operation and development's ( oecd's ) base erosion and profit shifting ( beps ) project. although we cannot predict whether, or in what form, any legislation based on such proposals may be adopted by the countries in which we do business, future tax reform based on such proposals may increase the amount of taxes we pay and adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. in the fiscal year ended march 31, 2019, we released our valuation allowance on certain u.s. deferred tax assets as a result of a determination that it was more-likely-than-not that such deferred tax assets would be realized. we will continue to evaluate our ability to realize our u.s. deferred tax assets. if future evidence suggests that any changes are required to reflect the amount of our u.s. deferred tax asset that is more-likely-than-not to be realized, we will adjust our valuation allowance as needed in the appropriate period. on june 21, 2018, the u.s. supreme court issued its decision in south dakota v. wayfair, which overturned previous case law that precluded states from requiring retailers to collect and remit sales tax on sales made to in-state customers unless the retailer had a physical presence in the state. although this case is limited to sales tax collection obligations, we continue to monitor the potential impact of this decision on our state income tax footprint. the ultimate amount of tax payable in a given financial statement period may be materially affected by sudden or unforeseen changes in tax laws, changes in the mix and level of earnings by taxing jurisdictions, or changes to existing accounting rules or regulations. for example, on july 27, 2015, the u.s. tax court issued an opinion in altera corp. v. commissioner, which concluded that related parties in an intercompany cost-sharing arrangement are not required to share costs related to stock-based compensation. in february 2016, the u.s. internal revenue service appealed the decision to the u.s court of appeals for the ninth circuit. on june 7, 2019, the ninth circuit reversed the 2015 decision of the u.s. tax court. as a result of this decision, we are no longer reflecting a net tax benefit within our financial statements related to the removal of stock-based compensation from our intercompany cost-sharing arrangement. the taxpayer in the case requested a rehearing before the full ninth circuit which was denied on november 12, 2019. the case remains potentially open for judicial review by the u.s. supreme court. as a result, the final outcome of the case is uncertain. in february 2020, the taxpayer petitioned the u.s. supreme court to review the ninth circuit's decision and is awaiting the supreme court's decision as to whether it will hear the case. we will continue to monitor ongoing developments and potential impacts to our financial statements. we earn a significant amount of our operating income and continue to hold a significant portion of our cash outside the u.s. our current intention is to reinvest indefinitely earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, and therefore we have not recorded any tax liabilities associated with the repatriation of foreign earnings. the tax cuts and jobs act (the "tax act") subjects a u.s. shareholder to current tax on gilti earned by foreign subsidiaries. the fasb staff q&amp;a topic no. 5, accounting for global intangible low-taxed income, states that an entity can make an accounting policy election either to recognize deferred taxes for temporary differences that are expected to reverse as gilti in future years or provide for the tax expense related to gilti resulting from those items in the year the tax is incurred. we have elected to recognize the resulting tax on gilti as an expense in the period incurred. we are also required to pay taxes other than income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property, and goods and services taxes, in both the u.s. and foreign jurisdictions. we are regularly under examination by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes. there can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations, changes in our business or changes in applicable tax law or interpretations will not have an adverse effect on our net income or loss and financial condition. our quarterly operating results are dependent on the release of "hit" titles and therefore dependent on the timing of our product releases, which may cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate significantly. we have experienced and may continue to experience wide fluctuations in quarterly operating results. the release of a "hit" title typically leads to a high level of sales during the first few months after introduction followed by a rapid decline in sales. in addition, the interactive entertainment industry is highly seasonal, with sales typically higher during the fourth calendar quarter, due primarily to increased demand for games during the holiday season. demand for and sales of titles in our nba 2k series are also seasonal in that they are typically released just prior to the start of the nba season. if a key event or sports season to which our product release schedule is tied were to be delayed or canceled, our sales might also suffer 12 disproportionately. for example, the nba season, along with several other professional sports leagues, have cancelled or delayed their seasons as a result of the covid-19 outbreak. our failure or inability to produce "hit" titles or introduce products on a timely basis to meet seasonal fluctuations in demand could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. the uncertainties associated with software development, manufacturing lead times, production delays and the approval process for products by hardware manufacturers and other licensors make it difficult to predict the quarter in which our products will ship and therefore may cause us to fail to meet financial expectations. price protection granted to our customers and returns of our published titles by our customers may adversely affect our operating results. we are exposed to the risk of price protection and product returns with respect to our customers. our distribution arrangements with customers generally do not give them the right to return titles to us or to cancel firm orders. however, we sometimes accept product returns from our distribution customers for stock balancing and negotiate accommodations for customers, which include credits and returns, when demand for specific products falls below expectations. we grant price protection and accept returns in connection with our publishing arrangements, and revenue is recognized after deducting estimated price protection and reserves for returns. while we believe that we can reliably estimate price protection and returns, if price protection and return rates for our products exceed our reserves, our revenue could decline, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. increased sales of used video game products could lower our sales. certain of our larger customers sell used video games, which are generally priced lower than new video games. if our customers increase their sales of used video games, it could negatively affect our sales of new video games and have an adverse influence on our business, financial condition and operating results. a limited number of customers account for a significant portion of our sales. the loss of a principal customer or other significant business relationship could seriously hurt our business. a substantial portion of our product sales are made to a limited number of customers. sales to our five largest customers during the fiscal year ended march 31, 2020 accounted for 71.5% of our net revenue, with sony and microsoft each accounting for more than 10.0% of our net revenue during the fiscal year ended march 31, 2020. our sales are made primarily without long-term agreements or other commitments, and our customers may terminate their relationship with us at any time. certain of our customers may decline to carry products containing mature content. the loss of our relationships with principal customers or a decline in sales to principal customers, including as a result of a product being rated "ao" (age 18 and over) could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, if our customers are subject to pricing pressures due to deteriorating demand for our products, competitive pressure, or otherwise, such customers may pass those pricing pressures through to us, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, because some of our customers are also publishers of games for their own hardware platforms and may manufacture products for other licensees, such customers may give priority to their own products or those of our competitors. accordingly, console manufacturers like sony or microsoft could cause unanticipated delays in the release of our products, as well as increases to projected development, manufacturing, marketing, or distribution costs, any of which could negatively impact our business. furthermore, our customers may also be placed into bankruptcy, become insolvent, or be liquidated due to economic downturns, global contractions of credit, or for other factors. this risk has been heightened by the covid-19 pandemic. bankruptcies or consolidations of certain large retail customers could seriously hurt our business, including as a result of uncollectible accounts receivable from such customers and the concentration of purchasing power among remaining large retailers. in addition, our results of operations may be adversely affected if certain of our customers who purchase on credit terms are no longer eligible to purchase on such terms due to their financial distress or lack of credit insurance, which may reduce the quantity of products they demand from us. if our marketing and advertising efforts fail to resonate with consumers, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. our products are marketed worldwide through a diverse spectrum of promotional programs, such as social media advertising, digital and online marketing, television advertising, print advertising, retail merchandising, website development, and event sponsorship. our ability to sell our products and services is dependent in part on the success of these programs. if the marketing for our products and services fails to resonate with consumers, particularly during the holiday season or other key selling periods, or if advertising rates or other media placement costs increase, these factors could have a material adverse influence on our business, financial condition and operating results. 13 the interactive entertainment software industry is highly competitive. we compete for both licenses to properties and the sale of interactive entertainment software with sony and microsoft, each of which is a large developer and marketer of software for its own platforms. we also compete with game publishers, such as activision blizzard, inc., electronic arts inc., and ubisoft entertainment s.a. as our business is dependent upon our ability to develop hit titles, which require increasing budgets for development and marketing, the availability of significant financial resources has become a major competitive factor in developing and marketing software games. some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, personnel, and other resources than we do and are able to finance larger budgets for development and marketing and make higher offers to licensors and developers for commercially desirable properties. our titles also compete with other forms of entertainment, such as social media and casual games, in addition to motion pictures, television and audio and video products featuring similar themes, online computer programs and other entertainment, which may be less expensive or provide other advantages to consumers. a number of software publishers who compete with us have developed and commercialized or are currently developing online games. if technological advances significantly increase the availability of online games and if consumer acceptance of online gaming grows substantially, it could result in a decline in our platform-based software sales and negatively affect sales of such products. additionally, we compete with other forms of entertainment and leisure activities. while we monitor general market conditions, significant shifts in consumer demand that could materially alter public preferences for different forms of entertainment and leisure activities are difficult to predict. failure to adequately identify and adapt to these competitive pressures could have a negative impact on our business. increased competition for limited shelf space and promotional support from retailers could affect the success of our business and require us to incur greater expenses to market our titles. while digital sales are increasingly important to our business, for physical sales, retailers have limited shelf space and promotional resources. competition is intense among newly introduced interactive entertainment software titles for adequate levels of shelf space and promotional support, with most and highest quality shelf space devoted to those products expected to be best sellers. we cannot be certain that our new products will consistently achieve best seller status. competition for retail shelf space is expected to continue to increase, which may require us to increase our marketing expenditures to maintain desirable sales levels of our titles. competitors with more extensive lines and more popular titles may have greater bargaining power with retailers. accordingly, we may not be able, or we may have to pay more than our competitors, to achieve similar levels of promotional support and shelf space. similarly, as digital sales increase in importance to our business, there is increasing competition for premium placements of products on websites. such placement is subject to many similar risks as physical shelf space discussed above. the increasing importance of digital sales to our business exposes us to the risks of that business model, including greater competition. the proportion of our revenues derived from digital content delivery, as compared to traditional retail sales, may continue to increase. the increased importance of digital content delivery in our industry, including through subscription-based access to a portfolio of interactive content, increases our potential competition, as the minimum capital needed to produce and publish a digitally delivered game is significantly less than that needed to produce and publish one that is purchased through retail distribution. this will also require us to dedicate capital to developing and implementing alternative marketing strategies, which we may not do successfully. if either occurs, we may be unable to effectively market and distribute our products, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. in addition, a continuing shift to digital delivery could result in a deprioritization of our products by traditional retailers. the increasing importance of digital sales to our business could also result in increasing issues with our digital distribution process, including difficulties our distributors have with collecting from consumers and any associated rebates we would owe. our business is partly dependent on our ability to enter into successful software development arrangements with third parties. our success depends on our ability to continually identify and develop new titles on a timely basis. we rely on third-party software developers for the development of some of our titles. quality third-party developers are continually in high demand. software developers who have developed titles for us in the past may not be available to develop software for us in the future. due to the limited availability of third-party software developers and the limited control that we exercise over them, these developers may not be able to complete titles for us on a timely basis or within acceptable quality standards, if at all. we have entered into agreements with third parties to acquire the rights to publish and distribute interactive entertainment software as well as to use licensed intellectual properties in our titles. these agreements typically require us to make development payments, pay royalties and satisfy other conditions. our development payments may not be sufficient to permit developers to 14 develop new software successfully, which could result in material delays and significant increases in our costs to bring particular products to market. software development costs, promotion and marketing expenses and royalties payable to software developers and third-party licensors have continued to increase and reduce potential profits derived from sales of our software. future sales of our titles may not be sufficient to recover development payments and advances to software developers and licensors, and we may not have adequate financial and other resources to satisfy our contractual commitments to such developers. if we fail to satisfy our obligations under agreements with third-party developers and licensors, the agreements may be terminated or modified in ways that are burdensome to us and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we cannot publish our titles without the approval of hardware licensors that are also our competitors. we are required to obtain licenses from certain of our competitors, including sony and microsoft, to develop and publish titles for their respective hardware platforms. our existing platform licenses require that we obtain approval for the publication of new titles on a title-by-title basis. as a result, the number of titles we are able to publish for these hardware platforms, our ability to manage the timing of the release of these titles, and, accordingly, our net revenue from titles for these hardware platforms, may be limited. if a licensor chooses not to renew or extend our license agreement at the end of its current term, or if a licensor were to terminate our license for any reason or does not approve one or more of our titles, we may be unable to publish that title as well as additional titles for that licensor's platform. during a console transition, like the one that is expected to occur in 2020, hardware platform manufacturers may seek to change the terms governing our relationships with them. termination of any such agreements or disapproval of titles could seriously hurt our business and prospects. we may be unable to continue to enter into license agreements for certain current generation platforms on satisfactory terms or at all. failure to enter into any such agreement could also seriously hurt our business. we rely on a limited number of channel partners some of whom influence the fee structures for online distribution of our games on their platforms. we rely on a limited number of channel partners, some of whom have retained the right to change the fee structures for online distribution of both paid content and free content (including patches and corrections) that we license to them for distribution on their platforms. such channel partners' ability to set or influence royalty rates may increase costs, which could negatively affect our operating margins. we may be unable to distribute our content in a cost-effective or profitable manner through such distribution channel, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. outside of fee arrangements, our agreements with our channel partners sometimes give them significant control over other aspects of the distribution of our products and services that we develop for their platform. if our channel partners establish terms that restrict our offerings through their channels, or significantly affect the financial terms on which these products or services are offered to our customers, we may be unable to distribute our product offerings through them or be forced to do so on a materially worse financial or business terms in negotiating such various aspects of distribution. increased competition for digital shelf space has put channel partners in more favorable bargaining positions in relation to such terms of distribution. we may not be able to adequately adjust our cost structure in a timely fashion in response to a sudden decrease in demand. in the event of a significant decline in revenue, we may not be able to dispose of facilities, reduce personnel, or make other changes to our cost structure without disruption to our operations or without significant termination and exit costs. management may not be able to implement such actions in a timely manner, if at all, to offset an immediate shortfall in revenue and profit. moreover, reducing costs may impair our ability to produce and develop software titles at sufficient levels in the future. we use open source software in connection with certain of our games and services, which may pose particular risks to our proprietary software, products, and services in a manner that could have a negative impact on our business. we use open source software in connection with certain of our games and the services we offer. some open source software licenses require users who distribute open source software as part of their software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software or make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. the terms of various open source licenses have not been interpreted by courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our use of the open source software. if it were determined that our use was not in compliance with a particular license, we may be required to release our proprietary source code, pay damages for breach of contract, re-engineer our games, discontinue distribution in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis or take other remedial action that may divert resources away from our game development efforts, any of which could harm our business. 15 we depend on servers and internet bandwidth to operate our games and digital services with online features. if we were to lose server capacity or lack sufficient internet bandwidth for any reason, our business could suffer. we rely on data servers, including those owned or controlled by third parties, to enable our customers to download our games and other downloadable content, and to operate our online games and other products with online functionality. events such as limited hardware failure, any broad-based catastrophic server malfunction, a significant intrusion by hackers that circumvents security measures, or a failure of disaster recovery services would likely interrupt the functionality of our games with online services and could result in a loss of sales for games and related services. an extended interruption of service could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. we expect a significant portion of our games to be on-line enabled in the future, and therefore we must project our future server needs and make advance purchases of servers or server capacity to accommodate expected business demands. if we underestimate the amount of server capacity our business requires or if our business were to grow more quickly than expected or if internet bandwidth becomes limited as a result of covid-19 related increased worldwide demand, our consumers may experience service problems, such as slow or interrupted gaming access. insufficient server capacity may result in decreased sales, a loss of our consumer base and adverse consequences to our reputation. conversely, if we overestimate the amount of server capacity required by our business, we may incur additional operating costs. because of the potential importance of our online business to our revenues and results of operations, our ability to access adequate internet bandwidth and online computational resources to support our business is critical. if the price of such resources increases, we may not be able to increase our prices or subscriber levels to compensate for such costs, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. we submit our products for rating by the entertainment software rating board ("esrb") in the united states and other voluntary or government ratings organizations in foreign countries. failure to obtain a target rating for certain of our products could negatively affect our ability to distribute and sell those games, as could the re-rating of a game for any reason. we voluntarily submit our game products to the esrb, a u.s.-based non-profit and independent ratings organization. the esrb system provides consumers with information about game content using a rating symbol that generally suggests the appropriate player age group and specific content descriptors, such as graphic violence, profanity or sexually explicit material. the esrb may impose significant penalties on game publishers for violations of its rules related to rating or marketing games, including revocation of a rating or monetary fines. other countries require voluntary or government backed ratings as prerequisites for product sales. in some instances, we may have to modify our products in order to market them under the target rating, which could delay or disrupt the release of our products. in addition, some of our titles may not be sold at all or without extensive edits in certain countries, such as germany. in the u.s., if the esrb rates a game as "ao" (age 18 and older), platform licensors may not certify the game and retailers may refuse to sell it. in addition, some consumers have reacted to re-ratings or controversial game content by refusing to purchase such games, demanding refunds for games that they had already purchased, and refraining from buying other games published by us. many of our rockstar titles and certain of our 2k titles have been rated "m" (age 17 and older) by the esrb. if we are unable to obtain "m" ratings and instead receive "ao" ratings on future versions of those or similar titles as a result of changes in the esrb's ratings standards or for other reasons, including the adoption of legislation in this area, our business and prospects could be negatively affected. if any of our games are re-rated by the esrb or other foreign based ratings organizations, we could be exposed to litigation, administrative fines and penalties and other potential liabilities, and our operating results and financial condition could be significantly affected. we have implemented processes to comply with the requirements of the esrb and other ratings organizations and properly display the designated rating symbols and content descriptions. nonetheless, these processes are subject to human error, circumvention, overriding and reasonable resource constraints. if a video game we published were found to contain undisclosed pertinent content, the esrb could re-rate a game, retailers could refuse to sell it and demand that we accept the return of any unsold copies or returns from customers, and consumers could refuse to buy it or demand that we refund their money. this could have a material negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. in addition, we may be exposed to litigation, administrative fines, and penalties, and our reputation could be harmed, which could affect sales of other video games we sell. if any of these consequences were to occur, our business and financial performance could be significantly harmed. content policies adopted by retailers, consumer opposition and litigation could negatively affect sales of our products. retailers, including digital storefronts and platform partners, may decline to sell interactive entertainment software containing what they judge to be graphic violence or sexually explicit material or other content that they deem inappropriate for their businesses. if retailers decline to sell our products based upon their opinion that they contain objectionable themes, graphic 16 violence or sexually explicit material or other generally objectionable content, or if any of our previously "m" rated series products are rated "ao," we might be required to significantly change or discontinue particular titles or series, which in the case of our best-selling grand theft auto titles could seriously affect our business. consumer advocacy groups have opposed sales of interactive entertainment software containing objectionable themes, violence or sexual material or other objectionable content by pressing for legislation in these areas and by engaging in public demonstrations and media campaigns. additionally, although lawsuits seeking damages for injuries allegedly suffered by third parties as a result of video games have generally been unsuccessful in the courts, claims of this kind have been asserted against us from time to time and may be asserted and be successful in the future. an increase in the number of lawsuits filed by the families of victims of violence may trigger supplemental governmental scrutiny, damage our reputation, and negatively affect the sale of our products. further, in 2019, the world health organization included "gaming disorder" in the 11th revision of the international classification of diseases (icd-11), leading some to consider legislation and policies aimed at addressing this issue. in addition, public dialogue concerning interactive entertainment may have an adverse impact on our reputation and our customers' willingness to purchase our products. our results of operations or reputation may be harmed as a result of offensive consumer-created content. we are subject to risks associated with the collaborative online features in our games which allow consumers to post narrative comments, in real time, that are visible to other consumers. from time to time, objectionable and offensive consumer content may be posted to a gaming or other site with online chat features or game forums which allow consumers to post comments. we may be subject to lawsuits, governmental regulation or restrictions, and consumer backlash (including decreased sales and harmed reputation), as a result of consumers posting offensive content. we may also be subject to consumer backlash from comments made in response to postings we make on social media sites such as facebook, youtube and twitter. we are subject to risks and uncertainties of international trade, including fluctuations in the values of local foreign currencies against the dollar. sales in international markets, primarily in europe, have accounted for a significant portion of our net revenue. for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2020, 42.5% of our net revenue was earned outside the u.s. we are continuing to execute on our growth initiatives in asia, where our strategy is to broaden the distribution of our existing products and expand our online gaming presence, especially in china and south korea. we are subject to risks inherent in foreign trade, including increased credit risks, tariffs, and duties, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, shipping delays, and international political, regulatory and economic developments, all of which can have a significant influence on our operating results. many of our international sales are made in local currencies, which could fluctuate against the dollar. while we may use forward exchange contracts to a limited extent to seek to mitigate foreign currency risk, our operating results could be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. we face risks from our international operations. we are subject to certain risks because of our international operations, particularly as we continue to grow our business and presence in asia, latin america, and other parts of the world. changes to and compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations may increase our cost of doing business and our inability or failure to obtain required approvals could harm our international and domestic sales. trade legislation in either the u.s. or other countries, such as a change in the current tariff structures, import/export compliance laws, or other trade laws or policies, could adversely affect our ability to sell or to distribute in international markets. additionally, cultural differences may affect consumer preferences and as a result, some of our hit products may not sell as well as they do in the u.s. cultural differences may also require us to modify the content of our products or the method by which we charge our customers. if we do not correctly assess consumer preferences in the countries in which we sell our products, or respond to other risks related to our international operations, it could negatively impact our business. the current u.s. administration has voiced concerns about imports from countries potentially engaging in unfair trade practices, increased tariffs on certain goods imported into the u.s. from those countries, including china and other countries to which we sell products, and raised the possibility of imposing significant additional tariff increases. the announcement of tariffs and proposed tariffs on imported products by the u.s. has triggered actions from certain foreign governments, including china, and may trigger additional actions by those and other foreign governments that could have a negative impact on our business. further, the enforcement of regulations relating to mobile and other games with an online element in china remains uncertain, and further changes, either in the regulation or their enforcement could have a negative impact on our business in china. in order to operate in china, all games must have regulatory approval. a decision by the chinese government to revoke its approval for any of our games or to decline to approve any products we desire to sell in china in the future could have a negative impact on our business. 17 we incur additional legal compliance costs associated with our international operations and could become subject to legal penalties in foreign countries if we do not comply with local laws and regulations which may be substantially different from those in the u.s. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it may be common to engage in business practices that are prohibited by u.s. laws and regulations, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, and by local laws, such as laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials. although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, including those based in or from countries where practices which violate such laws may be customary, will not take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have a material adverse effect on our business. on january 31, 2020, the u.k. left the e.u. ( brexit ) and entered a transition period expected to last until the end of calendar 2020 during which the u.k. will continue to be subject to e.u. rules and regulations while it negotiates the future terms of its relationship with the e.u. a substantial amount of uncertainty remains regarding the outcome of the ongoing negotiations. we continue to assess and monitor the risks our business is likely to face as a result of brexit. we are preparing to mitigate those risks with operational and commercial changes to the extent possible and warranted. however, the legal and regulatory landscape remains uncertain, and we have no assurance that such preparations will enable us to avoid a material adverse impact on our business from brexit. for example, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the u.k. determines which e.u. laws to replace and replicate. if there are changes to u.k. immigration policy as a result of brexit, this could affect our employees and their ability to move freely between the e.u. member states for work related matters. the effects of the u.k.'s future trade agreements with the e.u. or other nations could potentially disrupt the markets we serve and may cause us to lose customers, distributors, and employees. access to the single e.u. market and benefits from the e.u. global trade deals depend on the u.k.'s future trade agreements with the e.u., and the terms of such agreements could have a detrimental impact on our u.k. growth. such a decline could also make our doing business in europe more difficult, which could negatively affect sales to consumers of our products. without access to the single e.u. market, it may be more challenging and costly to distribute our products in europe. if we are unable to protect the intellectual property relating to our software, the commercial value of our products will be adversely affected and our competitive position could be harmed. we develop proprietary software and have obtained the rights to publish and distribute software developed by third parties. we attempt to protect our software and production techniques under patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as well as through contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and distribution. nonetheless, our software is susceptible to piracy and unauthorized copying, and third parties may potentially exploit or misappropriate our intellectual property and proprietary information, causing significant reputational damage. unauthorized third parties, for example, may be able to copy or to reverse engineer our software to obtain and use programming or production techniques that we regard as proprietary. well organized piracy operations have also proliferated in recent years, resulting in the ability to download pirated copies of our software over the internet. although we attempt to incorporate protective measures into our software, piracy of our products could negatively affect our future profitability. in addition, "cheating" programs or other unauthorized software tools and modifications that enable consumers to cheat in games harm the experience of players who play fairly and could negatively impact the volume of microtransactions or purchases of downloadable content. also, vulnerabilities in the design of our applications and of the platforms upon which they run could be discovered after their release. this may lead to lost revenues from paying consumers or increased cost of developing technological measures to respond to these, either of which could negatively affect our business. if we infringe on or are alleged to infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties, our business could be adversely affected. as our industry grows, we may be subject to an increasing amount of litigation that is common in the software industry based on allegations of infringement or other alleged violations of patent, copyright, or trademarks. in addition, we believe that interactive entertainment software will increasingly become the subject of claims that such software infringes on the intellectual property rights of others with both the growth of online functionality and advances in technology, game content and software graphics as games become more realistic. from time to time, we receive notices from third parties or are named in lawsuits by third parties alleging infringement of their proprietary rights. although we believe that our software and technologies and the software and technologies of third-party developers and publishers with whom we have contractual relations do not and will not infringe or violate proprietary rights of others, it is possible that infringement of proprietary rights of others may occur. any claims of infringement, with or without merit, could be time consuming, costly and difficult to defend. moreover, intellectual property litigation or claims could require us to discontinue the distribution of products, obtain a license or redesign our products, which could result in additional substantial costs and material delays. 18 our software is susceptible to errors, which can harm our financial results and reputation. the technological advancements of new hardware platforms result in the development of more complex software products. as software products become more complex, the risk of undetected errors in new products increases. we may need to produce and distribute patches in order to repair such errors, which could be costly and may distract our developers from working on new products. if, despite testing, errors are found in new products or releases after shipments have been made, we may have to consider suspending distribution of defective products or offering refunds, and we could experience a loss of or delay in timely market acceptance, product returns, loss of revenue, increases in costs relating to the repair of such errors and damage to our reputation. if we acquire or invest in other businesses, intellectual properties or other assets, we may be unable to integrate them with our business, our financial performance may be impaired and/or we may not realize the anticipated financial and strategic goals for such transactions. if appropriate opportunities present themselves, we may acquire or make investments in businesses, intellectual properties and other assets that we believe are strategic. we may not be able to identify, negotiate or finance any future acquisition or investment successfully. even if we do succeed in acquiring or investing in a business, intellectual property or other asset, such acquisitions and investments involve a number of risks, including: retaining key employees and maintaining the key business and customer relationships of the businesses we acquire; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from an acquired company or business into our organization; the possibility that the combined company would not achieve the expected benefits, including any anticipated operating and product synergies, of the acquisition as quickly as anticipated or that the costs of, or operational difficulties arising from, an acquisition would be greater than anticipated; significant acquisition-related accounting adjustments, particularly relating to an acquired company's deferred revenue, that may cause reported revenue and profits of the combined company to be lower than the sum of their stand-alone revenue and profits; significant accounting charges resulting from the completion and integration of a sizable acquisition and increased capital expenditures, including potential impairment charges incurred to write down the carrying amount of intangible assets generated as a result of an acquisition; the possibility that significant acquisitions, when not managed cautiously, may result in the over-extension of our existing operating infrastructures, internal controls and information technology systems; the possibility that we will not discover important facts during due diligence that could have a material adverse effect on the value of the businesses we acquire, including the possibility that a change of control of a company we acquire triggers a termination of contractual or intellectual property rights important to the operation of its business; the need to integrate an acquired company's accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management and timely reporting, and the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company in an acquired company that, prior to the acquisition, lacked these controls, procedures and policies; litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risks as a result of, an acquisition, including claims from terminated employees, customers or other third parties; and to the extent that we engage in strategic transactions outside of the u.s., we face additional risks, including risks related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. future acquisitions and investments could also involve the issuance of our equity and equity-linked securities (potentially diluting our existing stockholders), the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, write-offs of goodwill, intangibles, or acquired in-process technology, or other increased cash and non-cash expenses such as stock-based compensation. any of the foregoing factors could harm our financial condition or prevent us from achieving improvements in our financial condition and operating performance that could have otherwise been achieved by us on a stand-alone basis. our stockholders may not have the opportunity to review, vote on or evaluate future acquisitions or investments. 19 our ability to acquire and maintain licenses to intellectual property, especially for sports titles, affects our revenue and profitability. competition for these licenses may make them more expensive and increase our costs. certain of our products are based on or incorporate intellectual property owned by others. for example, certain of our 2k products include rights licensed from major sports leagues and players' associations. similarly, some of our other titles are based on licenses of popular entertainment products. competition for these licenses is intense. if we are unable to maintain and renew these licenses or obtain additional licenses on reasonable economic terms or with significant commercial value, our revenue and profitability could decline significantly. competition for these licenses may also increase the advances, guarantees and royalties that we must pay to the licensor, which could significantly increase our costs and adversely affect our profitability. in addition, on certain intellectual property licenses, we are subject to guaranteed minimum payments, royalties or standards of performance and may not be able to terminate these agreements prior to their stated expiration. if such licensed products do not generate revenues in excess of such minimum guarantees, our profitability will be adversely affected. we are subject to contractual covenants which place certain limitations on how we manage our business . our credit agreement (the "credit agreement") may limit our ability to take various actions, including incurring additional debt, paying dividends, repurchasing shares, and acquiring or disposing of assets or businesses. in addition, we have granted a security interest in connection with certain compensatory arrangements which limits our ability to incur senior debt in excess of certain amounts. accordingly, we may be restricted from taking actions that management believes would be desirable and in the best interests of us and our stockholders. our credit agreement also requires us to satisfy specified financial covenants and comply with other affirmative and negative covenants. a breach of any of the covenants contained in our credit agreement could result in an event of default, which would allow our lenders to pursue various remedies, including accelerating the repayment of any outstanding indebtedness under our credit agreement. our business and products are subject to potential legislation. the adoption of such proposed legislation could limit the retail market for our products. several proposals have been made for federal legislation to regulate our industry. such proposals seek to prohibit the sale of products containing certain content included in some of our games. if any such proposals are enacted into law, it may limit the potential market for some of our games in the u.s., and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. other countries, such as germany, have adopted laws regulating content both in packaged games and those transmitted over the internet that are stricter than current u.s. laws. in the u.s., proposals have also been made by numerous state legislators to regulate and prohibit the sale of interactive entertainment software products containing certain types of violent or sexual content to under 17 or 18 audiences, such as the state of california's "ultraviolent video games law" that sought to ban the sale or rental of violent video games to minors. while such legislation to date has been enjoined by industry and retail groups or been found unconstitutional, the adoption into law of such legislation in federal and/or in state jurisdictions in which we do significant business could severely limit the retail market for some of our games. change in government regulations relating to the internet could have a negative impact on our business. we rely on our consumers' access to significant levels of internet bandwidth for the sale and digital delivery of our content and the functionality of our games with online features. changes in laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the internet, including laws affecting "net neutrality" or measures enacted in certain jurisdictions as a result of the covid-19 pandemic, could decrease the demand for our products and services or increase our cost of doing business. although certain jurisdictions have implemented laws and regulations intended to prevent internet service providers from discriminating against particular types of legal traffic on their networks, other jurisdictions may lack such laws and regulations or repeal existing laws or regulations. for example, on december 14, 2017, the federal communications commission voted to repeal net neutrality regulations in the u.s. given uncertainty around these rules, including changing interpretations, amendments, or repeal, coupled with the potentially significant political and economic power of local internet service providers and the relatively significant level of internet bandwidth access our products and services require, we could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede our growth, cause us to incur additional expenses, or otherwise negatively affect our business. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill becomes impaired. we are required under u.s. generally accepted accounting principles to review our goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. factors that may be considered a change in circumstances, indicating a requirement to reevaluate whether our goodwill continues to be recoverable, include a significant decline in stock price and market capitalization, slower growth rates in our industry or other materially adverse events. we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial 20 statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill is determined. this may adversely affect our operating results. our reported financial results could be adversely affected by the application of existing or future accounting standards to our business as it evolves. our financial results are reported under the accounting policies promulgated by the sec and national accounting standards bodies and the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies. for example, standards regarding revenue recognition have and could further significantly affect the way we account for revenue related to our products and services. we expect that an increasing number of our games will be supported with material post-release activities, such as content updates and online-enabled features, and we could therefore be required to recognize more of the related revenues for those games over a period of time rather than at the time of sale. further, as we increase our downloadable content and add new features to our online services, user playing patterns can affect our estimate of the service period, and we could be required to recognize revenues, and defer related costs, over a shorter or longer period of time than we initially allocated. as we enhance, expand and diversify our business and product offerings, the application of existing or future financial accounting standards, particularly those relating to the way we account for revenue, could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results although not necessarily on our cash flows. we are subject to risks related to corporate and social responsibility and reputation. many factors influence our reputation including the perception held by our customers, business partners and other key stakeholders. our business faces increasing scrutiny related to environmental, social and governance activities. we risk damage to our reputation if we fail to act responsibly in a number of areas, such as diversity and inclusion, environmental stewardship, supply chain management, climate change, workplace conduct, human rights and philanthropy. any harm to our reputation could impact employee engagement and retention and the willingness of customers and our partners to do business with us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. climate change may have a long-term impact on our business. climate change could result in an increase in the frequency or severity of natural disasters, such as earthquakes, fires, floods, or significant power outages and other catastrophic events. such events may adversely impact critical infrastructure, have the potential to disrupt our business, our third-party suppliers, or the business of our customers, and may cause us to experience higher attrition, losses and additional costs to maintain or resume operations. risks relating to our common stock for purposes of this section "risks relating to our common stock," references to "the company," "we," "our," and "us" refer only to take-two interactive software, inc. and not to its subsidiaries. additional issuances or sales of equity securities by us would dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. we may issue equity or equity-based securities in the future to facilitate acquisitions or strategic transactions, to adjust our ratio of debt to equity, to fund expansion of our operations or for other purposes. to the extent we issue additional equity securities, the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders would be reduced. the sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect its price. the sale or the availability for sale of a large number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause the price of our common stock to decline. there is no guarantee that we will do additional share repurchases in the future. the share repurchase program authorized by the board of directors, which authorized the repurchase of up to 14.2 million shares of our common stock and had 3.8 million shares available for repurchase as of the date of this filing, does not obligate us to make any purchases at any specific time or situation. discontinuing repurchases could adversely affect the price of our common stock. the program may be suspended or discontinued at any time for any reason. our stock price has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate significantly. the market price of our common stock historically has been, and we expect will continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations. these fluctuations may be due to factors specific to us including those discussed in the risk factors in this section as well as others not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material, to changes in securities analysts' earnings estimates or ratings, to our results or future financial guidance falling below our expectations and analysts' and investors' expectations, to factors affecting the computer, software, entertainment, media or electronics industries, or to national or international economic conditions, such as the impact of covid-19. 21 stock markets, in general, have experienced over the years, and continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected market prices for companies such as ours and that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. these broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. delaware law, our charter documents, and provisions of our debt agreements may impede or discourage a takeover, which could cause the market price of our shares to decline. we are a delaware corporation, and the anti-takeover provisions of delaware law impose various impediments to the ability of a third party to acquire control of us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. our board of directors has the power, without stockholder approval, to adopt a stockholder rights plan and/or to designate the terms of one or more series of preferred stock and issue shares of preferred stock. the ability of our board of directors to create and issue a new series of preferred stock and certain provisions of delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could impede a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer for our common stock, which, under certain circumstances, could reduce the market price of our common stock and the value of any outstanding notes. our ability to use net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards to reduce future years' taxes could be substantially limited under internal revenue code sections 382 and 383 if we experience an ownership change as defined in the internal revenue code section 382. section 382 of the internal revenue code contains rules that limit the ability of a company to use its net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards in years after an ownership change, which is generally defined as any change in ownership of more than 50% of its stock over a three-year testing period. these rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes among stockholders owning directly or indirectly 5% or more of the stock of a company and/or any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of stock by the company. if, as a result of future transactions involving our common stock, including purchases or sales of stock by 5% stockholders, we undergo cumulative ownership changes which exceed 50% over the testing period, our ability to use our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards would be subject to additional limitations under sections 382 and 383. generally, if an ownership change occurs, the annual taxable income limitation on the use of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards is equal to the product of the applicable long-term tax-exempt rate and the value of the company's stock immediately before the ownership change. depending on the resulting limitation, a portion of our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards could expire before we would be able to use them. our inability to fully utilize any net operating losses or tax credit carryforwards to reduce tax liability in the future could have a material and negative affect on our future financial position and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential loss arising from fluctuations in market rates and prices. our market risk exposures primarily include fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. interest rate risk our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates relates primarily to our short-term investment portfolio and variable rate debt under the credit agreement. we seek to manage our interest rate risk by maintaining a short-term investment portfolio that includes corporate bonds with high credit quality and maturities less than two years. since short-term investments mature relatively quickly and can be reinvested at the then-current market rates, interest income on a portfolio consisting of short-term securities is more subject to market fluctuations than a portfolio of longer-term maturities. however, the fair value of a short-term portfolio is less sensitive to market fluctuations than a portfolio of longer-term securities. we do not currently use derivative financial instruments in our short-term investment portfolio. our investments are held for purposes other than trading. as of march 31, 2020, we had $644.0 million of short-term investments, which included $453.0 million of available-for-sale securities. the available-for-sale securities were recorded at fair market value with unrealized gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, in stockholders' equity. we also had $1,357.7 million of cash and cash equivalents that are comprised primarily of money market funds and bank-time deposits. we determined that, based on the composition of our investment portfolio, there was no material interest rate risk exposure to our consolidated financial statements or liquidity as of march 31, 2020. 37 historically, fluctuations in interest rates have not had a significant effect on our operating results. under our credit agreement, loans will bear interest at a rate of (a) 0.250% to 0.750% above a certain base rate (5.50% at march 31, 2020) or (b) 1.125% to 1.750% above libor (approximately 1.66% at march 31, 2020), which rates are determined by reference to our consolidated total net leverage ratio. changes in market rates may affect our future interest expense if there is an outstanding balance on our line of credit. at march 31, 2020, there were no outstanding borrowings under our credit agreement. foreign currency exchange rate risk we transact business in foreign currencies and are exposed to risks resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. accounts relating to foreign operations are translated into united states dollars using prevailing exchange rates at the relevant period end. translation adjustments are included as a separate component of stockholders' equity on our consolidated balance sheets. for the fiscal years ended march 31, 2020 and 2019, our foreign currency translation adjustment was a loss of $27.4 million and a loss of $28.8 million, respectively. we recognized a foreign currency exchange transaction loss of $3.6 million, a loss of $0.5 million, and a loss of $3.0 million for the fiscal years ended march 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively, in interest and other, net in our consolidated statements of operations. balance sheet hedging activities we use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with non-functional currency denominated cash balances and inter-company funding loans, non-functional currency denominated accounts receivable and non-functional currency denominated accounts payable. these transactions are not designated as hedging instruments and are accounted for as derivatives whereby the fair value of the contracts is reported as either assets or liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets, and gains and losses resulting from changes in the fair value are reported in interest and other, net, in our consolidated statements of operations. we do not enter into derivative financial contracts for speculative or trading purposes. at march 31, 2020, we had $52.6 million of forward contracts outstanding to buy foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars and $122.0 million of forward contracts outstanding to sell foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars all of which have maturities of less than one year. at march 31, 2019, we had $116.6 million of forward contracts outstanding to buy foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars and $87.8 million of forward contracts outstanding to sell foreign currencies in exchange for u.s. dollars all of which have maturities of less than one year. for the fiscal years ended march 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, we recorded a loss of $1.0 million, a gain of $16.8 million, and a loss of $19.5 million, respectively, related to foreign currency forward contracts in interest and other, net on the consolidated statements of operations. as of march 31, 2020 and 2019, the fair value of these outstanding forward contracts was a loss of $0.0 million and a loss $0.4 million, respectively, and is included in accrued and other current liabilities. the fair value of these outstanding forward contracts is estimated based on the prevailing exchange rates of the various hedged currencies as of the end of the period. our hedging programs are designed to reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the effect of currency exchange rate movements. we believe the counterparties to these foreign currency forward contracts are credit-worthy multinational commercial banks and that the risk of counterparty nonperformance is not material. notwithstanding our efforts to mitigate some foreign currency exchange rate risks, there can be no assurance that our hedging activities will adequately protect us against the risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations, which may be more volatile as a result of covid-19. for the fiscal year ended march 31, 2020, 42.5% of our revenue was generated outside the united states. using sensitivity analysis, a hypothetical 10% increase in the value of the u.s. dollar against all currencies would decrease revenue by 4.3%, while a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of the u.s. dollar against all currencies would increase revenue by 4.3%. in the opinion of management, a substantial portion of this fluctuation would be offset by cost of goods sold and operating expenses incurred in local currency.