risk factors. 17 executive officers of the registrant the following are our executive officers as of february 22, 2016: name age title bernardo hees 46 chief executive officer paulo basilio 41 executive vice president and chief financial officer matt hill 45 zone president of europe emin mammadov 39 zone president of russia, india and middle east, turkey &amp; africa eduardo pelleissone 42 executive vice president of global operations carlos piani 42 zone president of canada marcos romaneiro 32 zone president of asia pacific francisco sa 50 zone president of latin america james savina 42 senior vice president, global general counsel and corporate secretary george zoghbi 49 chief operating officer of u.s. commercial business bernardo hees became chief executive officer upon the closing of the 2015 merger. he had previously served as chief executive officer of heinz since june 2013. previously, mr. hees served as chief executive officer of burger king worldwide holdings, inc., a global fast food restaurant chain, from september 2010 to june 2013 and burger king worldwide, inc. from june 2012 to june 2013 and as chief executive officer of am rica latina log stica ( all ), a logistics company, from january 2005 to september 2010. mr. hees has also been a partner at 3g capital since july 2010. paulo basilio became executive vice president and chief financial officer upon the closing of the 2015 merger. he had previously served as chief financial officer of heinz since june 2013. previously, mr. basilio served as chief executive officer of all from september 2010 to june 2012, after having served in various roles at all, including chief operating officer, chief financial officer, and analyst. mr. basilio has been a partner of 3g capital since july 2012. matt hill assumed his current role upon the closing of the 2015 merger and had previously held the same role at heinz since june 2013. prior to his appointment, mr. hill was president of heinz uk &amp; ireland since april 2012. mr. hill joined heinz in 2010 as chief marketing officer for the uk &amp; ireland and was subsequently appointed chief commercial officer managing sales and marketing. prior to joining heinz, mr. hill spent 17 years at unilever, a consumer goods company, in a variety of uk, european and global marketing and leadership roles. emin mammadov assumed his current role upon the closing of the 2015 merger and had previously held the same role at heinz since june 2013. previously, mr. mammadov was president, africa &amp; middle east from march 2013 to june 2013 and managing director of heinz china sauces from 2010 to march 2013. he also served as marketing director and then commercial director of heinz russia from 2006 to 2010. eduardo pelleissone assumed his current role upon the closing of the 2015 merger and had previously held the same role at heinz since july 2013. prior to joining heinz, mr. pelleissone was chief executive officer of all from may 2012 to june 2013. prior 6 to assuming that role, mr. pelleissone had held the roles of chief operating officer from july 2011 to 2012 and commercial vice president of the agriculture segment at all from 2004 to 2011. carlos piani was appointed zone president of canada on september 1, 2015. prior to joining kraft heinz, mr. piani served as chief executive officer of pdg realty s.a. empreendimentos e participacoes, a real estate company, from august 2012 to august 2015. previously, he served as co-head of private equity of vinci partners, an independent asset management firm, from april 2010 to august 2012 and as chief executive officer of companhia energetica do maranhao, an electricity distribution company, from march 2006 to april 2010. marcos romaneiro assumed his current role upon the closing of the 2015 merger and had previously held the same role at heinz since june 2014. prior to his appointment as zone president of heinz asia pacific, mr. romaneiro was senior vice president, global finance at heinz from june 2013 to may 2014. from january 2012 to may 2013, mr. romaneiro was vice president at 3g capital and was responsible for sourcing, negotiating and executing private equity transactions. prior to joining 3g capital, mr. romaneiro worked at cerberus capital management, a private equity firm, from january 2010 to december 2011. mr. romaneiro has also been a partner at 3g capital since january 2015. francisco sa assumed his current role upon the closing of the 2015 merger and had previously held the same role at heinz after joining in july 2014. mr. sa served as zone president for anheuser-busch inbev nv/sa's latin america south business from january 2012 to january 2014 and as zone president for central and eastern europe from january 2008 to december 2011. james savina was appointed senior vice president, global general counsel and corporate secretary upon the closing of the 2015 merger. mr. savina served as kraft's senior vice president, deputy general counsel and chief compliance officer from march 2015 to july 2015, and vice president, associate general counsel and chief compliance officer from february 2013 to march 2015. prior to joining kraft in 2013, he served as executive director, global legal investigations and operations of avon products, inc., a global manufacturer of beauty and related products, since april 2010. george zoghbi was appointed chief operating officer of u.s. commercial business upon the closing of the 2015 merger. mr. zoghbi previously served as kraft's chief operating officer since february 2015 and, before that, as vice chairman, operations, r&amp;d, sales and strategy since june 2014. he served as executive vice president and president, cheese &amp; dairy and exports from february 2013 until june 2014. mr. zoghbi served as executive vice president and president, cheese and dairy from october 1, 2012 to february 2013. prior to that, he served as president, cheese and dairy of mondel z international, a global food and beverage company, since october 2009. available information our website address is www.kraftheinzcompany.com . the information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this annual report on form 10-k or incorporated into any other filings we make with the securities and exchange commission (the sec ). our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act ) are available free of charge on our website as soon as possible after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the sec. you can also read, access and copy any document that we file, including this annual report on form 10-k, at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. call the sec at 1-800-sec-0330 for information on the operation of the public reference room. in addition, the sec maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including kraft heinz, that are electronically filed with the sec. item 1a. risk factors. we operate in a highly competitive industry. the food and beverage industry is highly competitive across all of our product offerings. we compete based on product innovation, price, product quality, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing and distribution, promotional activity, and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. we may need to reduce our prices in response to competitive and customer pressures, including changing consumer preferences that may adversely impact the market for our products. these pressures may also restrict our ability to increase prices in response to commodity and other cost increases. we may also need to increase or reallocate spending on marketing, retail trade incentives, materials, advertising, and new product innovation to maintain or increase market share. these expenditures are subject to risks, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance of our efforts. if we are unable to compete effectively, our profitability, financial condition, and operating results may suffer. 7 maintaining, extending and expanding our reputation and brand image are essential to our business success. we have many iconic brands with long-standing consumer recognition. our success depends on our ability to maintain brand image for our existing products, extend our brands to new platforms, and expand our brand image with new product offerings. we seek to maintain, extend, and expand our brand image through marketing investments, including advertising and consumer promotions, and product innovation. increasing negative attention on the role of food and beverage marketing could adversely affect our brand image. it could also lead to stricter regulations and greater scrutiny of marketing practices. existing or increased legal or regulatory restrictions on our advertising, consumer promotions and marketing, or our response to those restrictions, could limit our efforts to maintain, extend and expand our brands. moreover, adverse publicity about legal or regulatory action against us, or our suppliers and, in some cases, our competitors, could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine our customers' confidence and reduce long-term demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. in addition, our success in maintaining, extending, and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment. we increasingly rely on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. the growing use of social and digital media increases the speed and extent that information, including misinformation, and opinions can be shared. negative posts or comments about us, our brands or our products, or our suppliers and, in some cases, our competitors, on social or digital media, whether or not valid, could seriously damage our brands and reputation. if we do not maintain, extend, and expand our reputation, brand image, then our product sales, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. we must leverage our brand value to compete against retailer brands and other economy brands. in nearly all of our product categories, we compete with branded products as well as retailer and other economy brands, which are typically sold at lower prices. our products must provide higher value and/or quality to our consumers than alternatives, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty. consumers may not buy our products if relative differences in value and/or quality between our products and retailer or other economy brands change in favor of competitors' products or if consumers perceive this type of change. if consumers prefer retailer or other economy brands, then we could lose market share or sales volumes or shift our product mix to lower margin offerings. a change in consumer preferences could also cause us to increase capital, marketing and other expenditures, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. the consolidation of retail customers could adversely affect us. retail customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors in our major markets, may consolidate, resulting in fewer customers for our business. consolidation also produces larger retail customers that may seek to leverage their position to improve their profitability by demanding improved efficiency, lower pricing, increased promotional programs, or specifically tailored product offerings. in addition, larger retailers have the scale to develop supply chains that permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own retailer brands. retail consolidation and increasing retailer power could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. retail consolidation also increases the risk that adverse changes in our customers' business operations or financial performance may have a corresponding material and adverse effect on us. for example, if our customers cannot access sufficient funds or financing, then they may delay, decrease, or cancel purchases of our products, or delay or fail to pay us for previous purchases, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. our financial success depends on our ability to correctly predict, identify, and interpret changes in consumer preferences and demand, to offer new products to meet those changes, and to respond to competitive innovation. consumer preferences for food and beverage products change continually. our success depends on our ability to predict, identify, and interpret the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to consumer preferences, including with respect to health and wellness. if we do not offer products that appeal to consumers, our sales and market share will decrease, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. we must distinguish between short-term fads, mid-term trends, and long-term changes in consumer preferences. if we do not accurately predict which shifts in consumer preferences will be long-term, or if we fail to introduce new and improved products to satisfy those preferences, our sales could decline. in addition, because of our varied consumer base, we must offer an array of products that satisfy a broad spectrum of consumer preferences. if we fail to expand our product offerings successfully across product categories, or if we do not rapidly develop products in faster growing or more profitable categories, demand for our products could decrease, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. 8 prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health implications of certain food and beverage products could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. we strive to respond to consumer preferences and social expectations, but we may not be successful in our efforts. continued negative perceptions and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. in addition, achieving growth depends on our successful development, introduction, and marketing of innovative new products and line extensions. there are inherent risks associated with new product or packaging introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance or impact on our existing product offerings. we may be required to increase expenditures for new product development. successful innovation depends on our ability to correctly anticipate customer and consumer acceptance, to obtain, protect and maintain necessary intellectual property rights, and to avoid infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. we must also be able to respond successfully to technological advances by and intellectual property rights of our competitors, and failure to do so could compromise our competitive position and impact our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. we may be unable to drive revenue growth in our key product categories, increase our market share, or add products that are in faster growing and more profitable categories. the food and beverage industry's overall growth is generally linked to population growth. our future results will depend on our ability to drive revenue growth in our key product categories and growth in the food and beverage industry in the countries in which we operate. our future results will also depend on our ability to enhance our portfolio by adding innovative new products in faster growing and more profitable categories and our ability to increase market share in our existing product categories. our failure to drive revenue growth, limit market share decreases in our key product categories or develop innovative products for new and existing categories could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. an impairment of the carrying value of goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets could negatively affect our consolidated operating results. we test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment at least annually in the second quarter or when a triggering event occurs. we performed our annual impairment testing in the second quarter of 2015, prior to completion of the 2015 merger. the first step of the goodwill impairment test compares the reporting unit's estimated fair value with its carrying value. if the carrying value of a reporting unit's net assets exceeds its fair value, the second step would be applied to measure the difference between the carrying value and implied fair value of goodwill. if the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, the goodwill would be considered impaired and would be reduced to its implied fair value. we test indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment by comparing the fair value of each intangible asset with its carrying value. if the carrying value exceeds fair value, the intangible asset would be considered impaired and would be reduced to fair value. fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to changes in underlying assumptions, estimates and market factors. estimating the fair value of individual reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets requires us to make assumptions and estimates regarding our future plans, as well as industry and economic conditions. these assumptions and estimates include projected revenues and income growth rates, terminal growth rates, competitive and consumer trends, market-based discount rates, and other market factors. if current expectations of future growth rates are not met or market factors outside of our control, such as discount rates, change significantly, then one or more reporting units or intangible assets might become impaired in the future. additionally, as goodwill and intangible assets associated with recently acquired businesses are recorded on the balance sheet at their estimated acquisition date fair values, those amounts are more susceptible to an impairment risk if business operating results or macroeconomic conditions deteriorate. an impairment of the carrying value of goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets could negatively affect our operating results or net worth. 9 commodity, energy, and other input prices are volatile and could negatively affect our consolidated operating results. we purchase and use large quantities of commodities, including dairy products, meat products, coffee beans, nuts, soybean and vegetable oils, sugar and other sweeteners, corn products, tomatoes, cucumbers, potatoes, onions, other fruits and vegetables, spices, flour and wheat to manufacture our products. in addition, we purchase and use significant quantities of resins, cardboard, glass, plastic, metal, paper, fiberboard and other materials to package our products and we use other inputs, such as water and natural gas, to operate our facilities. we are also exposed to changes in oil prices, which influence both our packaging and transportation costs. prices for commodities, energy, and other supplies are volatile and can fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict, including global competition for resources, currency fluctuations, severe weather or global climate change, crop failures or shortages due to plant disease or insect and other pest infestation, consumer, industrial or investment demand, and changes in governmental regulation and trade, alternative energy, including increased demand for biofuels, and agricultural programs. additionally, we may be unable to maintain favorable arrangements with respect to the costs of procuring raw materials, packaging, services, and transporting products, which could result in increased expenses and negatively affect our operations. additionally, the cost of raw materials and finished products may fluctuate due to movements in cross-currency transaction rates. rising commodity, energy, and other input costs could materially and adversely affect our cost of operations, including the manufacture, transportation, and distribution of our products, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. although we monitor our exposure to commodity prices as an integral part of our overall risk management program, and seek to hedge against input price increases to the extent we deem appropriate, we do not fully hedge against changes in commodity prices, and our hedging strategies may not protect us from increases in specific raw materials costs. for example, hedging our costs for one of our key commodities, dairy products, is difficult because dairy futures markets are not as developed as many other commodities futures markets. continued volatility or sustained increases in the prices of commodities and other supplies we purchase could increase the costs of our products, and our profitability could suffer. moreover, increases in the prices of our products to cover these increased costs may result in lower sales volumes. if we are not successful in our hedging activities, or if we are unable to price our products to cover increased costs, then commodity and other input price volatility or increases could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. we rely on our management team and other key personnel. we depend on the skills, working relationships, and continued services of key personnel, including our experienced management team. in addition, our ability to achieve our operating goals depends on our ability to identify, hire, train, and retain qualified individuals. we compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented personnel, and we may lose key personnel or fail to attract, train, and retain other talented personnel. any such loss or failure could adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. in particular, the success of the continued integration of kraft and heinz will depend in part on our ability to retain the talents and dedication of key employees. if key employees terminate their employment, or if an insufficient number of employees is retained to maintain effective operations, our business activities may be adversely affected and our management team's attention may be diverted from successfully integrating kraft and heinz to hiring suitable replacements. in addition, we may not be able to locate suitable replacements for any key employees who leave, or offer employment to potential replacements on reasonable terms, all of which could adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. we may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits from streamlining actions to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and improve our competitiveness. we have implemented a number of cost savings initiatives, including our integration program, that we believe are important to position our business for future success and growth. we have evaluated changes to our organization structure to enable us to reduce costs, simplify or improve processes, and improve our competitiveness. our future success may depend upon our ability to realize the benefit of our cost savings initiatives. in addition, certain of our initiatives may lead to increased costs in other aspects of our business such as increased conversion, outsourcing or distribution costs. we must be efficient in executing our plans to achieve cost savings and operate efficiently in the highly competitive food and beverage industry, particularly in an environment of increased competitive activity. to capitalize on our efforts, we must carefully evaluate investments in our business, and execute on those areas with the most potential return on investment. if we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits from our efforts, we could be cost disadvantaged in the marketplace, and our competitiveness, production and profitability could decrease. 10 changes in our relationships with significant customers or suppliers could adversely impact us. we have significant sales to certain significant customers. there can be no assurance that all of our significant customers will continue to purchase our products in the same mix or quantities or on the same terms as in the past, particularly as increasingly powerful retailers may demand lower pricing and focus on developing their own brands. the loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in sales or a change in the mix of products we sell to a significant customer could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. disputes with significant suppliers, including disputes related to pricing or performance, could adversely affect our ability to supply products to our customers and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. in addition, the financial condition of such customers and suppliers is affected in large part by conditions and events that are beyond our control. a significant deterioration in the financial condition of significant customers and suppliers could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. we may not be able to successfully execute our international expansion strategy. we plan to drive additional growth and profitability through international distribution channels. consumer demand, behavior, taste and purchasing trends may differ in international markets and, as a result, our sales may not be successful or meet expectations, or the margins on those sales may be less than currently anticipated. we may also face difficulties integrating foreign business operations with our current sourcing, distribution, information technology systems and other operations. any of these challenges could hinder our success in new markets or new distribution channels. there can be no assurance that we will successfully complete any planned international expansion or that any new business will be profitable or meet our expectations. changes in laws and regulations could increase our costs. our activities throughout the world are highly regulated and subject to government oversight. various laws and regulations govern food and beverage production, storage, distribution, sales, and marketing, as well as licensing, trade, tax, and environmental matters. governing bodies regularly issue new regulations and changes to existing regulations. our need to comply with new or revised regulations or their interpretation and application could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. legal claims or other regulatory enforcement actions could subject us to civil and criminal penalties. as a large food and beverage company, we operate in a highly regulated environment with constantly evolving legal and regulatory frameworks. consequently, we are subject to heightened risk of legal claims or other regulatory enforcement actions. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with existing laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies and procedures. moreover, a failure to maintain effective control processes could lead to violations, unintentional or otherwise, of laws and regulations. legal claims or regulatory enforcement actions arising out of our failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our product sales, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. product recalls or other product liability claims could materially and adversely affect us. selling products for human consumption involves inherent legal and other risks, including product contamination, spoilage, product tampering, allergens, or other adulteration. we could decide to, or be required to, recall products due to suspected or confirmed product contamination, adulteration, misbranding, tampering, or other deficiencies. product recalls or market withdrawals could result in significant losses due to their costs, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of the product for a period of time. we could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients, or the food safety system generally. adverse attention about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may damage our reputation, discourage consumers from buying our products, or cause production and delivery disruptions. we may also suffer losses if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations, or if our products cause injury, illness, or death. in addition, our marketing could face claims of false or deceptive advertising or other criticism. a significant product liability or other legal judgment or a related regulatory enforcement action against us, or a significant product recall, may materially and adversely affect our reputation and profitability. moreover, even if a product liability or fraud claim is unsuccessful, has no merit, or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our products or processes could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. 11 unanticipated business disruptions could adversely affect our ability to provide our products to our customers. we have a complex network of suppliers, owned manufacturing locations, co-manufacturing locations, distribution networks, and information systems that support our ability to consistently provide our products to our customers. factors that are hard to predict or beyond our control, such as weather, raw material shortages, natural disasters, fire or explosion, terrorism, generalized labor unrest, or health pandemics, could damage or disrupt our operations or our suppliers' or co-manufacturers' operations. these disruptions may require additional resources to restore our supply chain or distribution network. if we cannot respond to disruptions in our operations, whether by finding alternative suppliers or replacing capacity at key manufacturing or distribution locations, or if we are unable to quickly repair damage to our information, production, or supply systems, we may be late in delivering, or be unable to deliver, products to our customers and may also be unable to track orders, inventory, receivables, and payables. if that occurs, our customers' confidence in us and long-term demand for our products could decline. any of these events could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. the failure to integrate successfully the business and operations of kraft and heinz in the expected time frame may adversely affect our future results. prior to the 2015 merger, kraft and heinz operated as independent companies. there can be no assurances that these businesses can be integrated successfully. it is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key historical kraft or heinz employees, the loss of customers, the disruption of ongoing businesses, unexpected integration issues, or higher than expected integration costs. it is also possible that the overall post-merger integration process will take longer than originally anticipated. specifically, the following issues, among others, must be addressed as we continue to integrate the operations of kraft and heinz in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the 2015 merger: combining the companies' operations and corporate functions; combining the businesses of kraft and heinz and meeting the capital requirements of the combined company in a manner that permits us to achieve the cost savings anticipated to result from the 2015 merger, the failure of which could result in the material anticipated benefits of the 2015 merger not being realized in the time frame currently anticipated, or at all; integrating the companies' technologies; integrating and unifying the offerings and services available to historical kraft and heinz customers; identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming functions and assets; harmonizing the companies' operating practices, employee development and compensation programs, internal controls and other policies, procedures and processes; integrating the companies' financial reporting and internal control systems, including our ability to become compliant with the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, as amended, and the rules promulgated thereunder by the sec; maintaining existing agreements with customers, distributors, providers and vendors and avoiding delays in entering into new agreements with prospective customers, distributors, providers and vendors; addressing possible differences in business backgrounds, corporate cultures and management philosophies; integrating and consolidating the companies' administrative and information technology infrastructure and computer systems; coordinating distribution and marketing efforts; managing the movement of certain positions to different locations; and coordinating geographically dispersed organizations. in addition, at times the attention of certain members of our management may be focused on the integration of the businesses of kraft and heinz and diverted from day-to-day business operations, which may disrupt our business. 12 we may not successfully identify or complete strategic acquisitions, alliances, divestitures or joint ventures. from time to time, we may evaluate acquisition candidates, alliances or joint ventures that may strategically fit our business objectives or we may consider divesting businesses that do not meet our strategic objectives or growth or profitability targets. these activities may present financial, managerial, and operational risks including, but not limited to, diversion of management's attention from existing core businesses, difficulties integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, inability to effectively and immediately implement control environment processes across a diverse employee population, adverse effects on existing or acquired customer and supplier business relationships, and potential disputes with buyers, sellers or partners. activities in such areas are regulated by numerous antitrust and competition laws in the united states, the european union, and other jurisdictions, and we may be required to obtain the approval of acquisition and joint venture transactions by competition authorities, as well as to satisfy other legal requirements. in addition, to the extent we undertake acquisitions, alliances or joint ventures or other developments outside our core geography or in new categories, we may face additional risks related to such developments. for example, risks related to foreign operations include compliance with u.s. laws affecting operations outside of the united states, such as the foreign corrupt practices act, currency rate fluctuations, compliance with foreign regulations and laws, including tax laws, and exposure to politically and economically volatile developing markets. any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. our performance may be adversely affected by economic and political conditions in the united states and in various other nations where we do business. our performance has been in the past and may continue in the future to be impacted by economic and political conditions in the united states and in other nations where we do business. such conditions and factors include changes in applicable laws and regulations, including changes in food and drug laws, accounting standards and critical accounting estimates, taxation requirements and environmental laws. other factors impacting our operations in the united states, venezuela, russia and other international locations where we do business include export and import restrictions, currency exchange rates, currency devaluation, cash repatriation restrictions, recessionary conditions, foreign ownership restrictions, nationalization, the impact of hyperinflationary environments, terrorist acts, and political unrest. such factors in either domestic or foreign jurisdictions could materially and adversely affect our financial results. for further information on venezuela, see note 17, venezuela - foreign currency and inflation, to the consolidated financial statements. volatility of capital markets or macro-economic factors could adversely affect our business. changes in financial and capital markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity, and interest rate volatility, may increase the cost of financing as well as the risks of refinancing maturing debt. in addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term ratings assigned by rating organizations. a decrease in these ratings could limit our access to capital markets and increase our borrowing costs, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. some of our customers and counterparties are highly leveraged. consolidations in some of the industries in which our customers operate have created larger customers, some of which are highly leveraged and facing increased competition and continued credit market volatility. these factors have caused some customers to be less profitable and increased our exposure to credit risk. a significant adverse change in the financial and/or credit position of a customer or counterparty could require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that customer or counterparty and could limit our ability to collect receivables. this could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and liquidity. our results could be adversely impacted as a result of increased pension, labor, and people-related expenses. inflationary pressures and any shortages in the labor market could increase labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. our labor costs include the cost of providing employee benefits in the united states, canada and other foreign jurisdictions, including pension, health and welfare, and severance benefits. any declines in market returns could adversely impact the funding of pension plans, the assets of which are invested in a diversified portfolio of equity and fixed-income securities and other investments. additionally, the annual costs of benefits vary with increased costs of health care and the outcome of collectively-bargained wage and benefit agreements. volatility in the market value of all or a portion of the derivatives we use to manage exposures to fluctuations in commodity prices may cause volatility in our operating results and net income. we use commodity futures and options to partially hedge the price of certain input costs, including dairy products, coffee beans, meat products, wheat, corn products, soybean oils, sugar, and natural gas. changes in the values of these derivatives are currently recorded in net income, resulting in volatility in both gross profits and net income. we report these gains and losses in cost of products sold in our consolidated statements of income to the extent we utilize the underlying input in our manufacturing process. we report these gains and losses in the unallocated corporate items line in our segment operating results until we sell the underlying 13 products, at which time we reclassify the gains and losses to segment operating results. we may experience volatile earnings as a result of these accounting treatments. our net sales and net income may be exposed to exchange rate fluctuations. we derive a substantial portion of our net sales from international operations. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenue, and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the british pound sterling, euro, australian dollar, canadian dollar, new zealand dollar, brazilian real, indonesian rupiah, and chinese renminbi. since our consolidated financial statements are denominated in u.s. dollars, fluctuations in exchange rates from period to period will have an impact on our reported results. we have implemented currency hedges intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. however, these hedging strategies may not be successful and any of our unhedged foreign exchange exposures will continue to be subject to market fluctuations. in addition, in certain circumstances, we may incur costs in one currency related to services or products for which we are paid in a different currency. as a result, factors associated with international operations, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, could significantly affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we are significantly dependent on information technology. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic and financial information, to manage a variety of business processes and activities, and to comply with regulatory, legal, and tax requirements. we also depend on our information technology infrastructure for digital marketing activities and for electronic communications among our locations, personnel, customers, and suppliers. these information technology systems, some of which are managed by third parties, may be susceptible to damage, disruptions, or shutdowns due to hardware failures, computer viruses, hacker attacks and other cybersecurity risks, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophic events or other factors. if our information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption, or shutdown and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, we could experience business disruptions, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, and the loss of customers and sales, causing our product sales, financial condition, and operating results to be adversely affected and the reporting of our financial results to be delayed. in addition, if we are unable to prevent security breaches or disclosure of non-public information, we may suffer financial and reputational damage, litigation or remediation costs or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our partners, customers, consumers, or suppliers. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also our patents, trade secrets, copyrights, and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements, and policing of third-party misuses of our intellectual property. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our technology, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business. we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, brands, or products. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. third-party claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain products. 14 our results of operations could be affected by natural events in the locations in which we or our customers, suppliers or regulators operate. we may be impacted by severe weather and other geological events, including hurricanes, earthquakes, floods or tsunamis that could disrupt our operations or the operations of our customers, suppliers and regulators. natural disasters or other disruptions at any of our facilities or our suppliers' facilities may impair or delay the delivery of our products. influenza or other pandemics could disrupt production of our products, reduce demand for certain of our products, or disrupt the marketplace in the foodservice or retail environment with consequent material adverse effects on our results of operations. while we insure against certain business interruption risks, we cannot provide any assurance that such insurance will compensate us for any losses incurred as a result of natural or other disasters. to the extent we are unable to, or cannot, financially mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or effectively manage such events if they occur, particularly when a product is sourced from a single location, there could be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, and additional resources could be required to restore our supply chain. our indebtedness levels could impact our business. our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including any future debt that we may incur, will depend on our ability to generate cash from operations, financings, or asset sales. our ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control. we may not generate sufficient funds to service our debt and meet our business needs, such as funding working capital or the expansion of our operations. if we are not able to repay or refinance our debt as it becomes due, we may be forced to take disadvantageous actions, including reducing spending on marketing, retail trade incentives, advertising and product innovation, reducing financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes, selling assets, or dedicating an unsustainable level of our cash flows from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness. the creditors who hold our debt could also accelerate amounts due in the event that we default, which could potentially trigger a default or acceleration of the maturity of our other debt. if our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to obtain waivers from the required creditors under our indebtedness instruments to avoid being in default. if we breach the covenants under our indebtedness instruments and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required creditors. if this occurs, we would be in default under our indebtedness instruments, the creditors could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. our indebtedness could also impair our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, or general corporate purposes, especially if the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward. in addition, our leverage could put us at a competitive disadvantage compared to less-leveraged competitors that could have greater financial flexibility to pursue strategic acquisitions and secure additional financing for their operations. our ability to withstand competitive pressures and to react to changes in the food and beverage industry could be impaired, making us more vulnerable in the event of a general downturn in economic conditions, in our industry, or in our business. our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations and make strategic acquisitions, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from meeting our obligations under our existing indebtedness. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness, and are permitted to incur a substantial amount of additional indebtedness, including secured debt. the existing debt together with the incurrence of additional indebtedness could have important consequences. for example, our indebtedness could: limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, research and development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; result in a downgrade to our credit rating; restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures; limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are not as highly leveraged; increase our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; make it more difficult for us to make payments on our existing indebtedness; require a substantial portion of cash flows from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; and 15 in the case of any additional indebtedness, exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial financial leverage. in addition, the credit agreement and indentures governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. these covenants will limit our ability to, among other things, incur or permit to exist certain liens or merge or consolidate with or into, another company, in each case with customary exceptions. the terms of our series a preferred stock provide for a 9.00% annual dividend, payment of which could adversely affect our results of operations and could result in a net loss. the terms of our series a preferred stock provide for a 9.00% annual dividend. these dividend payments resulted in a net loss attributable to kraft heinz's common shareholders in our fiscal year ended january 3, 2016, despite having otherwise generated $634 million in net income during that period. to the extent dividend payments to holders of the 9.00% series a cumulative redeemable preferred stock ( series a preferred stock ) exceed our net income (before taking into account such payments) in any fiscal year, a net loss would result. even if such dividend payments do not exceed our net income, the payment obligation will have a negative impact on our results of operations. in addition, the ability to pay these dividend payments is also subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. while we currently intend to refinance the series a preferred stock in 2016, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully undertake such refinancing. the sponsors have substantial control over us and may have conflicts of interest with us in the future. the sponsors (together with employees who were heinz stockholders prior to the consummation of the 2015 merger) own approximately 51% of our common stock. six of our 11 directors had been directors of heinz prior to the closing of the 2015 merger and remained directors of kraft heinz pursuant to the merger agreement. in addition, some of our executive officers, including bernardo hees, our chief executive officer, are partners of 3g capital, one of the sponsors. as a result, the sponsors have the potential to exercise influence over management and have substantial control over decisions of our board of directors as well as over any action requiring the approval of the holders of our common stock, including adopting any amendments to our charter, electing directors and approving mergers or sales of substantially all of our capital stock or our assets. in addition, to the extent that the sponsors collectively hold a majority of our common stock, they together would have the power to take shareholder action by written consent to adopt amendments to our charter or take other actions, such as corporate transactions, that require the vote of holders of a majority of our outstanding common stock. the directors designated by the sponsors may have significant authority to effect decisions affecting our capital structure, including the issuance of additional capital stock, incurrence of additional indebtedness, the implementation of stock repurchase programs and the decision of whether or not to declare dividends. additionally, the sponsors are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. the sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. so long as the sponsors continue to own a significant amount of our equity, they will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause volatility in the price of our common stock or cause the share price to fall. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock, and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. kraft heinz, 3g global food holdings lp and berkshire hathaway entered into a registration rights agreement requiring us to register for resale under the securities act all registrable shares held by 3g global food holdings lp and berkshire hathaway inc., which represents all shares of our common stock held by the sponsors as of the date of the closing of the 2015 merger. as of the closing of the 2015 merger, registrable shares represented approximately 51% of our outstanding common stock on a fully diluted basis. although the registrable shares are subject to certain holdback and suspension periods, the registrable shares are not subject to a lock-up or similar restriction under the registration rights agreement. accordingly, sales of a large number of registrable shares may be made upon registration of such shares with the sec in accordance with the terms of the registration rights agreement. registration and sales of our common stock effected pursuant to the registration rights agreement will increase the number of shares being sold in the public market and may increase the volatility of the price of our common stock. our ability to pay regular dividends to our shareholders is subject to the discretion of the board of directors and may be limited by our debt agreements, limitations under delaware law and the rights of holders of series a preferred stock. although it is currently anticipated that we will continue pay regular quarterly dividends, any such determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of the board of directors and will be dependent on then-existing conditions, including our financial 16 condition, income, legal requirements, including limitations under delaware law, the rights of holders of shares of the series a preferred stock to receive dividends in respect of such shares prior to us being permitted to pay any dividends in respect of our common stock and other factors the board of directors deems relevant. the board of directors may, in its sole discretion, change the amount or frequency of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. for these reasons, shareholders will not be able to rely on dividends to receive a return on investment. accordingly, realization of any gain on shares of our common stock may depend on the appreciation of the price of our common stock, which may never occur. we may not generate u.s. earnings and profits sufficient for distributions paid to shareholders to be treated as dividends for u.s. federal income tax purposes. although it is currently anticipated that we will continue to pay regular quarterly dividends, our earnings (as determined under u.s. tax principles) may not be sufficient for all or a portion of these distributions to be treated as dividends for u.s. federal income tax purposes. if our earnings and profits are not sufficient, these distributions would be treated as a return of capital to each shareholder, up to the extent of the shareholder's tax basis. if a shareholder does not have sufficient tax basis, these distributions could result in taxable gains to the shareholder. shareholders should consult their tax advisors for a full understanding of all of the tax consequences of the receipt of dividends, including distributions in excess of our earnings and profits. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 52 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risks from adverse changes in commodity prices, foreign exchange rates, interest rates, and production costs. we monitor and manage these exposures as part of our overall risk management program. our risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects that volatility in these markets may have on our operating results. we maintain risk management policies that principally use derivative financial instruments to reduce significant, unanticipated fluctuations in earnings and cash flows that may arise from variations in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates. see note 1, background and basis of presentation , and note 16, financial instruments , to the consolidated financial statements for details of our market risk management policies and the financial instruments used to hedge those exposures. by policy, we do not engage in speculative or leveraged transactions, nor do we hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. effect of hypothetical 10% fluctuation in market prices: the potential gain or loss on the fair value of our outstanding commodity contracts, foreign exchange contracts, cross-currency swap contracts, and interest rate contracts, assuming a hypothetical 10% fluctuation in currency and swap rates, would be (in millions): january 3, 2016 (53 weeks) december 28, 2014 (52 weeks) commodity contracts $ 54 $ foreign currency contracts 185 21 cross-currency swap contracts 411 1,181 interest rate contracts 59 however, it should be noted that any change in the fair value of the contracts, real or hypothetical, would be significantly offset by an inverse change in the value of the underlying hedged items. in relation to foreign currency contracts, this hypothetical calculation assumes that each exchange rate would change in the same direction relative to the u.s. dollar. our utilization of financial instruments in managing market risk exposures described above is consistent with the prior year. changes in our portfolio of financial instruments are a function of our results of operations, debt repayment and debt issuances, market effects on debt and foreign currency, and our acquisition and divestiture activities. 52risk factors. 6 4 executive officers the following are our executive officers as of february 13, 2017: name age title bernardo hees 47 chief executive officer paulo basilio 42 executive vice president and chief financial officer emin mammadov 40 president, global foodservice raphael oliveira 42 zone president of europe eduardo pelleissone 43 executive vice president of global operations carlos piani 43 zone president of canada marcos romaneiro 33 zone president of amea francisco sa 51 zone president of latin america james savina 43 senior vice president, global general counsel and corporate secretary george zoghbi 50 chief operating officer of u.s. commercial business bernardo hees became chief executive officer upon the closing of the 2015 merger. he had previously served as chief executive officer of heinz since june 2013. previously, mr. hees served as chief executive officer of burger king worldwide holdings, inc., a global fast food restaurant chain, from september 2010 to june 2013 and burger king worldwide, inc. from june 2012 to june 2013 and as chief executive officer of am rica latina log stica ( all ), a logistics company, from january 2005 to september 2010. mr. hees has also been a partner at 3g capital since july 2010. paulo basilio became executive vice president and chief financial officer upon the closing of the 2015 merger. he had previously served as chief financial officer of heinz since june 2013. previously, mr. basilio served as chief executive officer of all from september 2010 to june 2012, after having served in various roles at all, including chief operating officer, chief financial officer, and analyst. mr. basilio has also been a partner of 3g capital since july 2012. emin mammadov assumed his current role as president, global foodservice on december 31, 2016. previously he had served as zone president of russia, india, the middle east and africa ( rimea ) since june 2013. prior to serving in that role, mr. mammadov was president, africa &amp; middle east from march 2013 to june 2013 and managing director of heinz china sauces from 2010 to march 2013. he also served as marketing director and then commercial director of heinz russia from 2006 to 2010. raphael oliveira assumed his current role in october 2016 after having served as the managing director of kraft heinz uk &amp; ireland. mr. oliveira joined kraft heinz in july 2014 and served as president of kraft heinz australia, new zealand and papua new guinea until september 2016. prior to joining kraft heinz, mr. oliveira spent 17 years in the financial industry. in the last 10 years, he held a variety of leadership positions with goldman sachs, a global investment banking, securities and investment management firm. eduardo pelleissone assumed his current role upon the closing of the 2015 merger and had previously held the same role at heinz since july 2013. prior to joining heinz, mr. pelleissone was chief executive officer of all from may 2012 to june 2013. prior to assuming that role, mr. pelleissone held the roles of chief operating officer from july 2011 to 2012 and commercial vice president of the agriculture segment at all from 2004 to 2011. carlos piani was appointed zone president of canada on september 1, 2015. prior to joining kraft heinz, mr. piani served as chief executive officer of pdg realty s.a. empreendimentos e participacoes, a real estate company, from august 2012 to august 2015. previously, he served as co-head of private equity of vinci partners, an independent asset management firm, from april 2010 to august 2012 and as chief executive officer of companhia energetica do maranhao ( cemar ), an electricity distribution company, and as chief executive officer of equatorial energia s/a, cemar's controlling shareholder, from march 2007 to april 2010. marcos romaneiro assumed his current role as zone president of amea on december 31, 2016. previously he had served as zone president of asia pacific since june 2014. prior to his appointment as zone president of asia pacific, mr. romaneiro was senior vice president, global finance at heinz from june 2013 to may 2014. from january 2012 to may 2013, mr. romaneiro was vice president at 3g capital and was responsible for evaluating and executing private equity transactions. prior to joining 3g capital, mr. romaneiro worked at cerberus capital management, a private equity firm, from january 2010 to december 2011. mr. romaneiro has also been a partner at 3g capital since january 2015. 5 francisco sa assumed his current role upon the closing of the 2015 merger and had previously held the same role at heinz after joining in july 2014. mr. sa served as zone president for anheuser-busch inbev nv/sa's latin america south business from january 2012 to january 2014 and as zone president for central and eastern europe from january 2008 to december 2011. james savina was appointed senior vice president, global general counsel and corporate secretary upon the closing of the 2015 merger. mr. savina served as kraft's senior vice president, deputy general counsel and chief compliance officer from march 2015 to july 2015, and vice president, associate general counsel and chief compliance officer from february 2013 to march 2015. prior to joining kraft in 2013, he served as executive director, global legal investigations and operations of avon products, inc., a global manufacturer of beauty and related products, since april 2010. george zoghbi was appointed chief operating officer of u.s. commercial business upon the closing of the 2015 merger. mr. zoghbi previously served as kraft's chief operating officer since february 2015 and, before that, as vice chairman, operations, r&amp;d, sales and strategy since june 2014. he served as executive vice president and president, cheese &amp; dairy and exports from february 2013 until june 2014. mr. zoghbi served as executive vice president and president, cheese and dairy from october 1, 2012 to february 2013. prior to that, he served as president, cheese and dairy of mondel z international, a global food and beverage company, since october 2009. available information our website address is www.kraftheinzcompany.com . the information on our website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this annual report on form 10-k or incorporated into any other filings we make with the securities and exchange commission (the sec ). our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act ) are available free of charge on our website as soon as possible after we electronically file them with, or furnish them to, the sec. you can also read, access and copy any document that we file, including this annual report on form 10-k, at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. call the sec at 1-800-sec-0330 for information on the operation of the public reference room. in addition, the sec maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers, including kraft heinz, that are electronically filed with the sec. item 1a. risk factors. we operate in a highly competitive industry. the food and beverage industry is highly competitive across all of our product offerings. we compete based on product innovation, price, product quality, service, taste, convenience, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing and distribution, promotional activity, and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. we may need to reduce our prices in response to competitive and customer pressures, including changing consumer preferences that may adversely impact the market for our products. these pressures may also restrict our ability to increase prices in response to commodity and other cost increases. we may also need to increase or reallocate spending on marketing, retail trade incentives, materials, advertising, and new product innovation to maintain or increase market share. these expenditures are subject to risks, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance of our efforts. if we are unable to compete effectively, our profitability, financial condition, and operating results may suffer. maintaining, extending and expanding our reputation and brand image are essential to our business success. we have many iconic brands with long-standing consumer recognition across the globe. our success depends on our ability to maintain brand image for our existing products, extend our brands to new platforms, and expand our brand image with new product offerings. we seek to maintain, extend, and expand our brand image through marketing investments, including advertising and consumer promotions, and product innovation. increasing negative attention on the role of food and beverage marketing could adversely affect our brand image. it could also lead to stricter regulations and greater scrutiny of marketing practices. existing or increased legal or regulatory restrictions on our advertising, consumer promotions and marketing, or our response to those restrictions, could limit our efforts to maintain, extend and expand our brands. moreover, adverse publicity about legal or regulatory action against us, our quality and safety, our environmental or social impacts, or our suppliers and, in some cases, our competitors, could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine our customers' confidence and reduce demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. 6 in addition, our success in maintaining, extending, and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment. we increasingly rely on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. the growing use of social and digital media increases the speed and extent that information, including misinformation, and opinions can be shared. negative posts or comments about us, our brands or our products, or our suppliers and, in some cases, our competitors, on social or digital media, whether or not valid, could seriously damage our brands and reputation. in addition, we might fail to anticipate consumer preferences, invest sufficiently in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image. if we do not maintain, extend, and expand our reputation, brand image, then our product sales, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. our international operations subject us to additional risks and costs and may cause our profitability to decline. we are a global company with sales or operations in approximately 190 countries and territories; approximately 30% of our 2016 net revenues were generated outside of the united states. as a result, we are subject to risks inherent in global operations. these risks, which can vary substantially by market, are described in many of the risk factors discussed in this section and also include: compliance with u.s. laws affecting operations outside of the united states, including anti-bribery laws such as the fcpa; changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws or their interpretation, or tax audit implications; the imposition of increased or new tariffs, quotas, trade barriers or similar restrictions on our sales or regulations, taxes or policies that might negatively affect our sales; currency devaluations or fluctuations in currency values; compliance with antitrust and competition laws, data privacy laws, and a variety of other local, national and multi-national regulations and laws in multiple jurisdictions; discriminatory or conflicting fiscal policies in or across foreign jurisdictions; changes in capital controls, including currency exchange controls, government currency policies or other limits on our ability to import raw materials or finished product into various countries or repatriate cash from outside the united states; changes in local regulations and laws, the uncertainty of enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions, and foreign ownership restrictions and the potential for nationalization or expropriation of property or other resources; risks and costs associated with political and economic instability, corruption, anti-american sentiment and social and ethnic unrest in the countries in which we operate; the risks of operating in developing or emerging markets in which there are significant uncertainties regarding the interpretation, application and enforceability of laws and regulations and the enforceability of contract rights and intellectual property rights; risks arising from the significant and rapid fluctuations in currency exchange markets and the decisions and positions that we take to hedge such volatility; changing labor conditions and difficulties in staffing our operations; greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles; and design, implementation and use of effective control environment processes across our diverse operations and employee base. in addition, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption, expropriation and other economic or political uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations or customer demand. slow economic growth or high unemployment in the markets in which we operate could constrain consumer spending, and declining consumer purchasing power could adversely impact our profitability. all of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. 7 we must leverage our brand value to compete against retailer brands and other economy brands. in nearly all of our product categories, we compete with branded products as well as retailer and other economy brands, which are typically sold at lower prices. our products must provide higher value and/or quality to our consumers than alternatives, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty. consumers may not buy our products if relative differences in value and/or quality between our products and retailer or other economy brands change in favor of competitors' products or if consumers perceive this type of change. if consumers prefer retailer or other economy brands, then we could lose market share or sales volumes or shift our product mix to lower margin offerings. a change in consumer preferences could also cause us to increase capital, marketing and other expenditures, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. our financial success depends on our ability to correctly predict, identify, and interpret changes in consumer preferences and demand, to offer new products to meet those changes, and to respond to competitive innovation. consumer preferences for food and beverage products change continually. our success depends on our ability to predict, identify, and interpret the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to consumer preferences, including with respect to health and wellness. if we do not offer products that appeal to consumers, our sales and market share will decrease, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. we must distinguish between short-term fads, mid-term trends, and long-term changes in consumer preferences. if we do not accurately predict which shifts in consumer preferences will be long-term, or if we fail to introduce new and improved products to satisfy those preferences, our sales could decline. in addition, because of our varied consumer base, we must offer an array of products that satisfy a broad spectrum of consumer preferences. if we fail to expand our product offerings successfully across product categories, or if we do not rapidly develop products in faster growing or more profitable categories, demand for our products could decrease, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health implications of certain food and beverage products could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. we strive to respond to consumer preferences and social expectations, but we may not be successful in our efforts. continued negative perceptions and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. in addition, achieving growth depends on our successful development, introduction, and marketing of innovative new products and line extensions. there are inherent risks associated with new product or packaging introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance or impact on our existing product offerings. we may be required to increase expenditures for new product development. successful innovation depends on our ability to correctly anticipate customer and consumer acceptance, to obtain, protect and maintain necessary intellectual property rights, and to avoid infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. we must also be able to respond successfully to technological advances by and intellectual property rights of our competitors, and failure to do so could compromise our competitive position and impact our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. we may be unable to drive revenue growth in our key product categories, increase our market share, or add products that are in faster growing and more profitable categories. the food and beverage industry's overall growth is generally linked to population growth. our future results will depend on our ability to drive revenue growth in our key product categories and growth in the food and beverage industry in the countries in which we operate. our future results will also depend on our ability to enhance our portfolio by adding innovative new products in faster growing and more profitable categories and our ability to increase market share in our existing product categories. our failure to drive revenue growth, limit market share decreases in our key product categories or develop innovative products for new and existing categories could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. an impairment of the carrying value of goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets could negatively affect our consolidated operating results. we test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment at least annually in the second quarter or when a triggering event occurs. we performed our annual impairment testing in the second quarter of 2016. the first step of the goodwill impairment test compares the reporting unit's estimated fair value with its carrying value. if the carrying value of a reporting unit's net assets exceeds its fair value, the second step would be applied to measure the difference between the carrying value and implied fair value of goodwill. if the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, the goodwill would be considered impaired and would be reduced to its implied fair value. we test indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment by comparing the fair value of each intangible asset with its carrying value. if the carrying value exceeds fair value, the intangible asset would be considered impaired and would be reduced to fair value. 8 fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to changes in underlying assumptions, estimates and market factors. estimating the fair value of individual reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets requires us to make assumptions and estimates regarding our future plans, as well as industry and economic conditions. these assumptions and estimates include projected revenues and income growth rates, terminal growth rates, competitive and consumer trends, market-based discount rates, and other market factors. if current expectations of future growth rates are not met or market factors outside of our control, such as discount rates, change significantly, then one or more reporting units or intangible assets might become impaired in the future. additionally, as goodwill and intangible assets associated with recently acquired businesses are recorded on the balance sheet at their estimated acquisition date fair values, those amounts are more susceptible to an impairment risk if business operating results or macroeconomic conditions deteriorate. an impairment of the carrying value of goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets could negatively affect our operating results or net worth. commodity, energy, and other input prices are volatile and could negatively affect our consolidated operating results. we purchase and use large quantities of commodities, including dairy products, meat products, coffee beans, nuts, soybean and vegetable oils, sugar and other sweeteners, corn products, tomatoes, cucumbers, potatoes, onions, other fruits and vegetables, spices, flour and wheat to manufacture our products. in addition, we purchase and use significant quantities of resins, cardboard, glass, plastic, metal, paper, fiberboard and other materials to package our products and we use other inputs, such as water and natural gas, to operate our facilities. we are also exposed to changes in oil prices, which influence both our packaging and transportation costs. prices for commodities, energy, and other supplies are volatile and can fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict, including global competition for resources, currency fluctuations, severe weather or global climate change, crop failures or shortages due to plant disease or insect and other pest infestation, consumer, industrial or investment demand, and changes in governmental regulation and trade, alternative energy, including increased demand for biofuels, and agricultural programs. additionally, we may be unable to maintain favorable arrangements with respect to the costs of procuring raw materials, packaging, services, and transporting products, which could result in increased expenses and negatively affect our operations. furthermore, the cost of raw materials and finished products may fluctuate due to movements in cross-currency transaction rates. rising commodity, energy, and other input costs could materially and adversely affect our cost of operations, including the manufacture, transportation, and distribution of our products, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. although we monitor our exposure to commodity prices as an integral part of our overall risk management program, and seek to hedge against input price increases to the extent we deem appropriate, we do not fully hedge against changes in commodity prices, and our hedging strategies may not protect us from increases in specific raw materials costs. for example, hedging our costs for one of our key commodities, dairy products, is difficult because dairy futures markets are not as developed as many other commodities futures markets. continued volatility or sustained increases in the prices of commodities and other supplies we purchase could increase the costs of our products, and our profitability could suffer. moreover, increases in the prices of our products to cover these increased costs may result in lower sales volumes. if we are not successful in our hedging activities, or if we are unable to price our products to cover increased costs, then commodity and other input price volatility or increases could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. we rely on our management team and other key personnel. we depend on the skills, working relationships and continued services of key personnel, including our experienced management team. in addition, our ability to achieve our operating goals depends on our ability to identify, hire, train, and retain qualified individuals. we compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented personnel, and we may lose key personnel or fail to attract, train, and retain other talented personnel. any such loss or failure could adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. in particular, the success of the continued integration of kraft and heinz will depend in part on our ability to retain the talents and dedication of key employees. if key employees terminate their employment, or if an insufficient number of employees is retained to maintain effective operations, our business activities may be adversely affected and our management team's attention may be diverted. in addition, we may not be able to locate suitable replacements for any key employees who leave, or offer employment to potential replacements on reasonable terms, all of which could adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. 9 we may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits from streamlining actions to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and improve our competitiveness. we have implemented a number of cost savings initiatives, including our integration program (as defined below), that we believe are important to position our business for future success and growth. we have evaluated changes to our organization structure to enable us to reduce costs, simplify or improve processes, and improve our competitiveness. our future success may depend upon our ability to realize the benefits of our cost savings initiatives. in addition, certain of our initiatives may lead to increased costs in other aspects of our business such as increased conversion, outsourcing or distribution costs. we must be efficient in executing our plans to achieve cost savings and operate efficiently in the highly competitive food and beverage industry, particularly in an environment of increased competitive activity. to capitalize on our efforts, we must carefully evaluate investments in our business, and execute on those areas with the most potential return on investment. if we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits from our efforts, we could be cost disadvantaged in the marketplace, and our competitiveness, production and profitability could decrease. changes in the retail landscape or the loss of key retail customers could adversely affect our financial performance. retail customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs and food distributors in our major markets, may consolidate, resulting in fewer but larger customers for our business. consolidation also produces larger retail customers that may seek to leverage their position to improve their profitability by demanding improved efficiency, lower pricing, more favorable terms, increased promotional programs, or specifically tailored product offerings. in addition, larger retailers have the scale to develop supply chains that permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own retailer brands. retail consolidation and increasing retailer power could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. retail consolidation also increases the risk that adverse changes in our customers' business operations or financial performance may have a corresponding material and adverse effect on us. for example, if our customers cannot access sufficient funds or financing, then they may delay, decrease, or cancel purchases of our products, or delay or fail to pay us for previous purchases, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. in addition, technology-based systems, which give consumers the ability to shop through e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications, are also significantly altering the retail landscape in many of our markets. if we are unable to adjust to developments in these changing landscapes, we may be disadvantaged in key channels and with certain consumers, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. changes in our relationships with significant customers or suppliers could adversely impact us. we have significant sales to certain significant customers. there can be no assurance that all of our significant customers will continue to purchase our products in the same mix or quantities or on the same terms as in the past, particularly as increasingly powerful retailers may demand lower pricing and focus on developing their own brands. the loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in sales or a change in the mix of products we sell to a significant customer could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. disputes with significant suppliers, including disputes related to pricing or performance, could adversely affect our ability to supply products to our customers and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. in addition, the financial condition of such customers and suppliers is affected in large part by conditions and events that are beyond our control. a significant deterioration in the financial condition of significant customers and suppliers could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. we may not be able to successfully execute our international expansion strategy. we plan to drive additional growth and profitability through international distribution channels. consumer demand, behavior, taste and purchasing trends may differ in international markets and, as a result, our sales may not be successful or meet expectations, or the margins on those sales may be less than currently anticipated. we may also face difficulties integrating foreign business operations with our current sourcing, distribution, information technology systems and other operations. any of these challenges could hinder our success in new markets or new distribution channels. there can be no assurance that we will successfully complete any planned international expansion or that any new business will be profitable or meet our expectations. 10 changes in laws and regulations could increase our costs. our activities throughout the world are highly regulated and subject to government oversight. various laws and regulations govern food and beverage production, storage, distribution, sales, and marketing, as well as licensing, trade, tax, and environmental matters. governing bodies regularly issue new regulations and changes to existing regulations. our need to comply with new or revised regulations or their interpretation and application could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. federal, state, and local governments and administrative bodies within the u.s., which represents a majority of our operations, are considering a variety of broad tax, trade, and other regulatory reforms. for example, an increase in tariff or restrictive trade activities around the world could negatively impact our ability to succeed in certain markets; similarly, changes in tax laws, such as tax reform in the united states, or changes in tax laws resulting from the organization for economic co-operation and development's ( oecd ) multi-jurisdictional plan of action to address base erosion and profit sharing could impact our effective tax rate. it is not currently possible to accurately determine the potential impact of these proposed or future changes, but these changes could have a material impact on our business. legal claims or other regulatory enforcement actions could subject us to civil and criminal penalties. as a large food and beverage company, we operate in a highly regulated environment with constantly evolving legal and regulatory frameworks. consequently, we are subject to heightened risk of legal claims or other regulatory enforcement actions. although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with existing laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies and procedures. moreover, a failure to maintain effective control processes could lead to violations, unintentional or otherwise, of laws and regulations. legal claims or regulatory enforcement actions arising out of our failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our product sales, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. in addition, the costs and other effects of defending potential and pending litigation and administrative actions against us may be difficult to determine and could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. product recalls or other product liability claims could materially and adversely affect us. selling products for human consumption involves inherent legal and other risks, including product contamination, spoilage, product tampering, allergens, or other adulteration. we could decide to, or be required to, recall products due to suspected or confirmed product contamination, adulteration, misbranding, tampering, or other deficiencies. product recalls or market withdrawals could result in significant losses due to their costs, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of the product for a period of time. we could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients, or the food safety system generally. adverse attention about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may damage our reputation, discourage consumers from buying our products, or cause production and delivery disruptions. we may also suffer losses if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations, or if our products cause injury, illness, or death. in addition, our marketing could face claims of false or deceptive advertising or other criticism. a significant product liability or other legal judgment or a related regulatory enforcement action against us, or a significant product recall, may materially and adversely affect our reputation and profitability. moreover, even if a product liability or fraud claim is unsuccessful, has no merit, or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our products or processes could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. unanticipated business disruptions could adversely affect our ability to provide our products to our customers. we have a complex network of suppliers, owned manufacturing locations, co-manufacturing locations, distribution networks, and information systems that support our ability to consistently provide our products to our customers. factors that are hard to predict or beyond our control, such as weather, raw material shortages, natural disasters, fire or explosion, political unrest, terrorism, generalized labor unrest, or health pandemics, could damage or disrupt our operations or our suppliers' or co-manufacturers' operations. these disruptions may require additional resources to restore our supply chain or distribution network. if we cannot respond to disruptions in our operations, whether by finding alternative suppliers or replacing capacity at key manufacturing or distribution locations, or if we are unable to quickly repair damage to our information, production, or supply systems, we may be late in delivering, or be unable to deliver, products to our customers and may also be unable to track orders, inventory, receivables, and payables. if that occurs, our customers' confidence in us and long-term demand for our products could decline. any of these events could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. 11 the failure to integrate successfully the business and operations of kraft and heinz in the expected time frame may adversely affect our future results. while no material disruptions occurred during the first full year of integration, there can be no assurances that the kraft and heinz businesses can be integrated successfully. it is possible that the integration process could result in the the loss of customers, the disruption of ongoing businesses, unexpected integration issues, or higher than expected integration costs. it is also possible that the overall post-merger integration process will take longer than originally anticipated. specifically, the following issues, among others, must be addressed as we continue to integrate the operations of kraft and heinz in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the 2015 merger: combining the companies' operations and corporate functions; combining the businesses of kraft and heinz and meeting the capital requirements of the combined company in a manner that permits us to achieve the cost savings anticipated to result from the 2015 merger, the failure of which could result in the material anticipated benefits of the 2015 merger not being realized in the time frame currently anticipated, or at all; integrating the companies' technologies; integrating and unifying the offerings and services available to historical kraft and heinz customers; identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming functions and assets; harmonizing the companies' operating practices, employee development and compensation programs, internal controls and other policies, procedures and processes; integrating the companies' financial reporting and internal control systems, including our ability to maintain compliance with the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, as amended, and the rules promulgated thereunder by the sec; maintaining existing agreements with customers, distributors, providers and vendors and avoiding delays in entering into new agreements with prospective customers, distributors, providers and vendors; addressing possible differences in business backgrounds, corporate cultures and management philosophies; integrating and consolidating the companies' administrative and information technology infrastructure and computer systems; coordinating distribution and marketing efforts; managing the movement of certain positions to different locations; and coordinating geographically dispersed organizations. in addition, at times the attention of certain members of our management may be focused on the integration of the businesses of kraft and heinz and diverted from day-to-day business operations, which may disrupt our business. we may not successfully identify or complete strategic acquisitions, alliances, divestitures or joint ventures. from time to time, we may evaluate acquisition candidates, alliances or joint ventures that may strategically fit our business objectives or we may consider divesting businesses that do not meet our strategic objectives or growth or profitability targets. these activities may present financial, managerial, and operational risks including, but not limited to, diversion of management's attention from existing core businesses, difficulties integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, inability to effectively and immediately implement control environment processes across a diverse employee population, adverse effects on existing or acquired customer and supplier business relationships, and potential disputes with buyers, sellers or partners. activities in such areas are regulated by numerous antitrust and competition laws in the united states, the european union, and other jurisdictions, and we may be required to obtain the approval of acquisition and joint venture transactions by competition authorities, as well as to satisfy other legal requirements. to the extent we undertake acquisitions, alliances or joint ventures or other developments outside our core regions or in new categories, we may face additional risks related to such developments. for example, risks related to foreign operations include compliance with u.s. laws affecting operations outside of the united states, such as the fcpa, currency rate fluctuations, compliance with foreign regulations and laws, including tax laws, and exposure to politically and economically volatile developing markets. any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. 12 our performance may be adversely affected by economic and political conditions in the united states and in various other nations where we do business. our performance has been in the past and may continue in the future to be impacted by economic and political conditions in the united states and in other nations where we do business. such conditions and factors include changes in applicable laws and regulations, including changes in food and drug laws, accounting standards and critical accounting estimates, taxation requirements and environmental laws. other factors impacting our operations in the united states, venezuela, russia and other international locations where we do business include export and import restrictions, currency exchange rates, currency devaluation, cash repatriation restrictions, recessionary conditions, foreign ownership restrictions, nationalization, the impact of hyperinflationary environments, terrorist acts, and political unrest. such factors in either domestic or foreign jurisdictions could materially and adversely affect our financial results. for further information on venezuela, see note 15, venezuela - foreign currency and inflation, to the consolidated financial statements. volatility of capital markets or macro-economic factors could adversely affect our business. changes in financial and capital markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity and interest rate volatility, may increase the cost of financing as well as the risks of refinancing maturing debt. in addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term ratings assigned by rating organizations. a decrease in these ratings could limit our access to capital markets and increase our borrowing costs, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. some of our customers and counterparties are highly leveraged. consolidations in some of the industries in which our customers operate have created larger customers, some of which are highly leveraged and facing increased competition and continued credit market volatility. these factors have caused some customers to be less profitable and increased our exposure to credit risk. a significant adverse change in the financial and/or credit position of a customer or counterparty could require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that customer or counterparty and could limit our ability to collect receivables. this could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and liquidity. our results could be adversely impacted as a result of increased pension, labor, and people-related expenses. inflationary pressures and any shortages in the labor market could increase labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. our labor costs include the cost of providing employee benefits in the united states, canada and other foreign jurisdictions, including pension, health and welfare, and severance benefits. any declines in market returns could adversely impact the funding of pension plans, the assets of which are invested in a diversified portfolio of equity and fixed-income securities and other investments. additionally, the annual costs of benefits vary with increased costs of health care and the outcome of collectively-bargained wage and benefit agreements. furthermore, we may be subject to increased costs or experience adverse effects to our operating results if we are unable to renew collectively bargained agreements on satisfactory terms, our financial condition and ability to meet the needs of our customers could be materially and adversely affected if strikes or work stoppages and interruptions occur as a result of delayed negotiations with union-represented employees both in and outside of the united states. volatility in the market value of all or a portion of the derivatives we use to manage exposures to fluctuations in commodity prices may cause volatility in our operating results and net income. we use commodity futures and options to partially hedge the price of certain input costs, including dairy products, coffee beans, meat products, wheat, corn products, soybean oils, sugar and natural gas. changes in the values of these derivatives are currently recorded in net income, resulting in volatility in both gross profits and net income. we report these gains and losses in cost of products sold in our consolidated statements of income to the extent we utilize the underlying input in our manufacturing process. we report these gains and losses in the unallocated corporate items line in our segment operating results until we sell the underlying products, at which time we reclassify the gains and losses to segment operating results. we may experience volatile earnings as a result of these accounting treatments. 13 our net sales and net income may be exposed to exchange rate fluctuations. we derive a substantial portion of our net sales from international operations. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenue, and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the british pound sterling, euro, australian dollar, canadian dollar, new zealand dollar, brazilian real, indonesian rupiah, and chinese renminbi. since our consolidated financial statements are denominated in u.s. dollars, fluctuations in exchange rates from period to period will have an impact on our reported results. we have implemented currency hedges intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. however, these hedging strategies may not be successful and any of our unhedged foreign exchange exposures will continue to be subject to market fluctuations. in addition, in certain circumstances, we may incur costs in one currency related to services or products for which we are paid in a different currency. as a result, factors associated with international operations, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, could significantly affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we are significantly dependent on information technology and we may be unable to protect our information systems against service interruption, misappropriation of data or breaches of security we rely on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic and financial information, to manage a variety of business processes and activities, and to comply with regulatory, legal, and tax requirements. we also depend on our information technology infrastructure for digital marketing activities and for electronic communications among our locations, personnel, customers, and suppliers. these information technology systems, some of which are managed by third parties, may be susceptible to damage, invasions, disruptions, or shutdowns due to hardware failures, computer viruses, hacker attacks and other cybersecurity risks, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophic events or other factors. if our information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption, or shutdown, by unintentional or malicious actions of employees and contractors or by cyber-attacks, and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, we could experience business disruptions, reputational damage, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the leakage of confidential information, and the loss of customers and sales, causing our product sales, financial condition, and operating results to be adversely affected and the reporting of our financial results to be delayed. in addition, if we are unable to prevent security breaches or disclosure of non-public information, we may suffer financial and reputational damage, litigation or remediation costs or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our partners, customers, consumers, or suppliers. misuse, leakage or falsification of information could result in violations of data privacy laws and regulations, damage to the reputation and credibility of the company, loss of opportunities to acquire or divest of businesses or brands and loss of ability to commercialize products developed through research and development efforts and, therefore, could have a negative impact on net operating revenues. in addition, we may suffer financial and reputational damage because of lost or misappropriated confidential information belonging to us, our current or former employees, or to our suppliers or consumers, and may become subject to legal action and increased regulatory oversight. the company could also be required to spend significant financial and other resources to remedy the damage caused by a security breach or to repair or replace networks and information systems. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also our patents, trade secrets, copyrights and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements and policing of third-party misuses of our intellectual property. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our technology, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business. we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, brands or products. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. third-party claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain products. 14 our results of operations could be affected by natural events in the locations in which we or our customers, suppliers or regulators operate. we may be impacted by severe weather and other geological events, including hurricanes, earthquakes, floods or tsunamis that could disrupt our operations or the operations of our customers, suppliers and regulators. natural disasters or other disruptions at any of our facilities or our suppliers' facilities may impair or delay the delivery of our products. influenza or other pandemics could disrupt production of our products, reduce demand for certain of our products, or disrupt the marketplace in the foodservice or retail environment with consequent material adverse effects on our results of operations. while we insure against certain business interruption risks, we cannot provide any assurance that such insurance will compensate us for any losses incurred as a result of natural or other disasters. to the extent we are unable to, or cannot, financially mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or effectively manage such events if they occur, particularly when a product is sourced from a single location, there could be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, and additional resources could be required to restore our supply chain. our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our business. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness, and are permitted to incur a substantial amount of additional indebtedness, including secured debt. the existing debt together with the incurrence of additional indebtedness could have important consequences. for example, our indebtedness could: limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, research and development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; result in a downgrade to our credit rating; restrict us from making strategic acquisitions or cause us to make non-strategic divestitures; limit our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are not as highly leveraged; increase our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; make it more difficult for us to make payments on our existing indebtedness; require a substantial portion of cash flows from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; and in the case of any additional indebtedness, exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial financial leverage. in addition, our credit agreement and indentures governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. these covenants will limit our ability to, among other things, incur or permit to exist certain liens or our ability to merge or consolidate with or into, another company, in each case with customary exceptions. there can be no assurance that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future debt or equity financings will be available to us to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund other needs. as a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. there is no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all. any inability to generate sufficient cash flow or to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. the creditors who hold our debt could also accelerate amounts due in the event that we default, which could potentially trigger a default or acceleration of the maturity of our other debt. if our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to obtain waivers from the required creditors under our indebtedness instruments to avoid being in default. if we breach the covenants under our indebtedness instruments and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required creditors. if this occurs, we would be in default under our indebtedness instruments, the creditors could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. 15 the sponsors have substantial control over us and may have conflicts of interest with us in the future. the sponsors own approximately 51% of our common stock. six of our 11 directors had been directors of heinz prior to the closing of the 2015 merger and remained directors of kraft heinz pursuant to the merger agreement. in addition, some of our executive officers, including bernardo hees, our chief executive officer, are partners of 3g capital, one of the sponsors. as a result, the sponsors have the potential to exercise influence over management and have substantial control over decisions of our board of directors as well as over any action requiring the approval of the holders of our common stock, including adopting any amendments to our charter, electing directors and approving mergers or sales of substantially all of our capital stock or our assets. in addition, to the extent that the sponsors collectively hold a majority of our common stock, they together would have the power to take shareholder action by written consent to adopt amendments to our charter or take other actions, such as corporate transactions, that require the vote of holders of a majority of our outstanding common stock. the directors designated by the sponsors may have significant authority to effect decisions affecting our capital structure, including the issuance of additional capital stock, incurrence of additional indebtedness, the implementation of stock repurchase programs and the decision of whether or not to declare dividends. additionally, the sponsors are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. the sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. so long as the sponsors continue to own a significant amount of our equity, they will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause volatility in the price of our common stock or cause the share price to fall. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock, and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. kraft heinz, 3g global food holdings lp and berkshire hathaway entered into a registration rights agreement requiring us to register for resale under the securities act all registrable shares held by 3g global food holdings lp and berkshire hathaway, which represents all shares of our common stock held by the sponsors as of the date of the closing of the 2015 merger. as of the closing of the 2015 merger, registrable shares represented approximately 51% of our outstanding common stock on a fully diluted basis. although the registrable shares are subject to certain holdback and suspension periods, the registrable shares are not subject to a lock-up or similar restriction under the registration rights agreement. accordingly, sales of a large number of registrable shares may be made upon registration of such shares with the sec in accordance with the terms of the registration rights agreement. registration and sales of our common stock effected pursuant to the registration rights agreement will increase the number of shares being sold in the public market and may increase the volatility of the price of our common stock. our ability to pay regular dividends to our shareholders is subject to the discretion of the board of directors and may be limited by our debt agreements, limitations under delaware law. although it is currently anticipated that we will continue to pay regular quarterly dividends, any such determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of the board of directors and will be dependent on then-existing conditions, including our financial condition, income, legal requirements, including limitations under delaware law and other factors the board of directors deems relevant. the board of directors may, in its sole discretion, change the amount or frequency of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. for these reasons, shareholders will not be able to rely on dividends to receive a return on investment. accordingly, realization of any gain on shares of our common stock may depend on the appreciation of the price of our common stock, which may never occur. we may not generate u.s. earnings and profits sufficient for distributions paid to stockholders to be treated as dividends for u.s. federal income tax purposes. in 2016,distributions made on our stock, including the redemption of $8.3 billion of our 9.00% cumulative compounding preferred stock, series a ( series a preferred stock ) (which we believe will be treated as a dividend distribution for u.s. federal income tax purposes), significantly exceeded our earnings and profits (as determined under u.s. tax principles) and, therefore, only a portion of our regular 2016 quarterly dividends was treated as dividends for u.s. federal income tax purposes. for purposes of u.s. federal income tax, insofar as our earnings and profits are not sufficient, these distributions would be treated as a return of capital to each stockholder, up to the extent of the stockholder's tax basis. if a stockholder does not have sufficient tax basis, these distributions could result in taxable gains to the stockholder. although it is currently anticipated that we will continue to pay regular quarterly dividends, we cannot currently anticipate whether our future earnings and profits will be sufficient for all or a portion of future year distributions to be treated as dividends (as determined under u.s. tax principles). stockholders should consult their tax advisors for a full understanding of all of the tax consequences of the receipt of dividends, including distributions in excess of our earnings and profits. 16 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risks from adverse changes in commodity prices, foreign exchange rates, interest rates, and production costs. we monitor and manage these exposures as part of our overall risk management program. our risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects that volatility in these markets may have on our operating results. we maintain risk management policies that principally use derivative financial instruments to reduce significant, unanticipated fluctuations in earnings and cash flows that may arise from variations in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates. see note 1, background and basis of presentation , and note 14, financial instruments , to the consolidated financial statements for details of our market risk management policies and the financial instruments used to hedge those exposures. by policy, we do not engage in speculative or leveraged transactions, nor do we hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. effect of hypothetical 10% fluctuation in market prices: the potential gain or loss on the fair value of our outstanding commodity contracts, foreign exchange contracts, cross-currency, and swap contracts, assuming a hypothetical 10% fluctuation in commodity prices, currency rates, and swap rates, would be (in millions): december 31, 2016 (52 weeks) january 3, 2016 (53 weeks) commodity contracts $ 39 $ 54 foreign currency contracts 179 194 cross-currency swap contracts 306 447 the effect of a hypothetical 10% fluctuation in market prices on certain of our derivative contracts as of january 3, 2016 was revised to reflect a correction to the potential gain or loss on fair values, including an increase of $36 million related to cross-currency swap contracts and an increase of $9 million related to foreign currency contracts. it should be noted that any change in the fair value of the contracts, real or hypothetical, would be significantly offset by an inverse change in the value of the underlying hedged items. in relation to foreign currency contracts, this hypothetical calculation assumes that each exchange rate would change in the same direction relative to the u.s. dollar. our utilization of financial instruments in managing market risk exposures described above is consistent with the prior year. changes in our portfolio of financial instruments are a function of our results of operations, debt repayment and debt issuances, market effects on debt and foreign currency, and our acquisition and divestiture activities. 49risk factors. 6 risk factors. we operate in a highly competitive industry. the food and beverage industry is highly competitive across all of our product offerings. we compete based on product innovation, price, product quality, nutritional value, service, taste, convenience, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing and distribution, promotional activity, and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. we may need to reduce our prices in response to competitive and customer pressures. these pressures may also restrict our ability to increase prices in response to commodity and other cost increases. failure to effectively assess, timely change and set proper pricing or trade incentives may negatively impact the achievement of our objectives. the rapid emergence of new distribution channels, particularly e-commerce, may create consumer price deflation, affecting our retail customer relationships and presenting additional challenges to increasing prices in response to commodity or other cost increases. we may also need to increase or reallocate spending on marketing, retail trade incentives, materials, advertising, and new product innovation to maintain or increase market share. these expenditures are subject to risks, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance of our efforts. if we are unable to compete effectively, our profitability, financial condition, and operating results may suffer. changes in the retail landscape or the loss of key retail customers could adversely affect our financial performance. retail customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs, and food distributors in our major markets, may continue to consolidate, resulting in fewer but larger customers for our business across various channels. consolidation also produces larger retail customers that may seek to leverage their position to improve their profitability by demanding improved efficiency, lower pricing, more favorable terms, increased promotional programs, or specifically tailored product offerings. in addition, larger retailers have the scale to develop supply chains that permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own retailer brands. retail consolidation and increasing retailer power could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. retail consolidation also increases the risk that adverse changes in our customers' business operations or financial performance may have a corresponding material and adverse effect on us. for example, if our customers cannot access sufficient funds or financing, then they may delay, decrease, or cancel purchases of our products, or delay or fail to pay us for previous purchases, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. in addition, technology-based systems, which give consumers the ability to shop through e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications, are also significantly altering the retail landscape in many of our markets. if we are unable to adjust to developments in these changing landscapes, we may be disadvantaged in key channels and with certain consumers, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. maintaining, extending, and expanding our reputation and brand image are essential to our business success. we have many iconic brands with long-standing consumer recognition across the globe. our success depends on our ability to maintain brand image for our existing products, extend our brands to new platforms, and expand our brand image with new product offerings. we seek to maintain, extend, and expand our brand image through marketing investments, including advertising and consumer promotions, and product innovation. negative perceptions on the role of food and beverage marketing could adversely affect our brand image or lead to stricter regulations and scrutiny of marketing practices. existing or increased legal or regulatory restrictions on our advertising, consumer promotions, and marketing, or our response to those restrictions, could limit our efforts to maintain, extend, and expand our brands. moreover, adverse publicity about legal or regulatory action against us, our quality and safety, our environmental or social impacts, or our suppliers and, in some cases, our competitors, could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine our customers' confidence, and reduce demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. in addition, our success in maintaining, extending, and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment. we increasingly rely on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. the growing use of social and digital media increases the speed and extent that information, including misinformation, and opinions can be shared. negative posts or comments about us, our brands or our products, or our suppliers and, in some cases, our competitors, on social or digital media, whether or not valid, could seriously damage our brands and reputation. in addition, we might fail to anticipate consumer preferences, invest sufficiently in maintaining, extending, and expanding our brand image. if we do not maintain, extend, and expand our reputation or brand image, then our product sales, financial condition, and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. 6 our international operations subject us to additional risks and costs and may cause our profitability to decline. we are a global company with sales in approximately 190 countries and territories; approximately 30% of our 2017 net sales were generated outside of the united states. as a result, we are subject to risks inherent in global operations. these risks, which can vary substantially by market, are described in many of the risk factors discussed in this section and also include: compliance with u.s. laws affecting operations outside of the united states, including anti-bribery laws such as the fcpa; changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws or their interpretation, or tax audit implications; the imposition of increased or new tariffs, quotas, trade barriers or similar restrictions on our sales or regulations, taxes or policies that might negatively affect our sales; currency devaluations or fluctuations in currency values; compliance with antitrust and competition laws, data privacy laws, and a variety of other local, national and multi-national regulations and laws in multiple jurisdictions; discriminatory or conflicting fiscal policies in or across foreign jurisdictions; changes in capital controls, including currency exchange controls, government currency policies or other limits on our ability to import raw materials or finished product into various countries or repatriate cash from outside the united states; challenges associated with cross-border product distribution; changes in local regulations and laws, the uncertainty of enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions, and foreign ownership restrictions and the potential for nationalization or expropriation of property or other resources; risks and costs associated with political and economic instability, corruption, anti-american sentiment and social and ethnic unrest in the countries in which we operate; the risks of operating in developing or emerging markets in which there are significant uncertainties regarding the interpretation, application and enforceability of laws and regulations and the enforceability of contract rights and intellectual property rights; risks arising from the significant and rapid fluctuations in currency exchange markets and the decisions and positions that we take to hedge such volatility; changing labor conditions and difficulties in staffing our operations; greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles; and design, implementation and use of effective control environment processes across our diverse operations and employee base. in addition, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption, expropriation and other economic or political uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations or customer demand. slow economic growth or high unemployment in the markets in which we operate could constrain consumer spending, and declining consumer purchasing power could adversely impact our profitability. all of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased sales, and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations. we must leverage our brand value to compete against retailer brands and other economy brands. in nearly all of our product categories, we compete with branded products as well as retailer and other economy brands, which are typically sold at lower prices. our products must provide higher value and/or quality to our consumers than alternatives, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty. consumers may not buy our products if relative differences in value and/or quality between our products and retailer or other economy brands change in favor of competitors' products or if consumers perceive this type of change. if consumers prefer retailer or other economy brands, then we could lose market share or sales volumes or shift our product mix to lower margin offerings. a change in consumer preferences could also cause us to increase capital, marketing, and other expenditures, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. 7 our financial success depends on our ability to correctly predict, identify, and interpret changes in consumer preferences and demand, to offer new products to meet those changes, and to respond to competitive innovation. consumer preferences for food and beverage products change continually. our success depends on our ability to predict, identify, and interpret the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to consumer preferences, including with respect to health and wellness. if we do not offer products that appeal to consumers, our sales and market share will decrease, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. we must distinguish between short-term fads, mid-term trends, and long-term changes in consumer preferences. if we do not accurately predict which shifts in consumer preferences will be long-term, or if we fail to introduce new and improved products to satisfy those preferences, our sales could decline. in addition, because of our varied consumer base, we must offer an array of products that satisfy a broad spectrum of consumer preferences. if we fail to expand our product offerings successfully across product categories, or if we do not rapidly develop products in faster growing or more profitable categories, demand for our products could decrease, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health implications of certain food and beverage products could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. we strive to respond to consumer preferences and social expectations, but we may not be successful in our efforts. continued negative perceptions and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. in addition, achieving growth depends on our successful development, introduction, and marketing of innovative new products and line extensions. there are inherent risks associated with new product or packaging introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance or potential impacts on our existing product offerings. we may be required to increase expenditures for new product development. successful innovation depends on our ability to correctly anticipate customer and consumer acceptance, to obtain, protect and maintain necessary intellectual property rights, and to avoid infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. we must also be able to respond successfully to technological advances by and intellectual property rights of our competitors, and failure to do so could compromise our competitive position and impact our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. we may be unable to drive revenue growth in our key product categories, increase our market share, or add products that are in faster growing and more profitable categories. our future results will depend on our ability to drive revenue growth in our key product categories and growth in the food and beverage industry in the countries in which we operate. our future results will also depend on our ability to enhance our portfolio by adding innovative new products in faster growing and more profitable categories and our ability to increase market share in our existing product categories. our failure to drive revenue growth, limit market share decreases in our key product categories, or develop innovative products for new and existing categories could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. an impairment of the carrying value of goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets could negatively affect our consolidated operating results. we test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment at least annually in the second quarter or when a triggering event occurs. we performed our annual impairment testing in the second quarter of 2017. the first step of the goodwill impairment test compares the reporting unit's estimated fair value with its carrying value. if the carrying value of a reporting unit's net assets exceeds its fair value, the second step would be applied to measure the difference between the carrying value and implied fair value of goodwill. if the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, the goodwill would be considered impaired and would be reduced to its implied fair value. we test indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment by comparing the fair value of each intangible asset with its carrying value. if the carrying value exceeds fair value, the intangible asset would be considered impaired and would be reduced to its fair value. fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to changes in underlying assumptions, estimates and market factors. estimating the fair value of individual reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets requires us to make assumptions and estimates regarding our future plans, as well as industry and economic conditions. these assumptions and estimates include projected revenues and income growth rates, terminal growth rates, competitive and consumer trends, market-based discount rates, and other market factors. if current expectations of future growth rates are not met or market factors outside of our control, such as discount rates, change significantly, then one or more reporting units or intangible assets might become impaired in the future. as goodwill and intangible assets associated with recently acquired businesses are recorded on the balance sheet at their estimated acquisition date fair values, those amounts are more susceptible to an impairment risk if business operating results or macroeconomic conditions deteriorate. additionally, recently impaired intangible assets can also be more susceptible to future impairment as they are recorded on the balance sheet at their recently estimated fair values. 8 an impairment of the carrying value of goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets could negatively affect our operating results or net worth. commodity, energy, and other input prices are volatile and could negatively affect our consolidated operating results. we purchase and use large quantities of commodities, including dairy products, meat products, coffee beans, nuts, soybean and vegetable oils, sugar and other sweeteners, corn products, tomatoes, cucumbers, potatoes, onions, other fruits and vegetables, spices, flour, and wheat to manufacture our products. in addition, we purchase and use significant quantities of resins, cardboard, glass, plastic, metal, paper, fiberboard, and other materials to package our products and we use other inputs, such as water and natural gas, to operate our facilities. we are also exposed to changes in oil prices, which influence both our packaging and transportation costs. prices for commodities, energy, and other supplies are volatile and can fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict, including global competition for resources, currency fluctuations, severe weather or global climate change, crop failures or shortages due to plant disease or insect and other pest infestation, consumer, industrial or investment demand, and changes in governmental regulation and trade, alternative energy, including increased demand for biofuels, and agricultural programs. additionally, we may be unable to maintain favorable arrangements with respect to the costs of procuring raw materials, packaging, services, and transporting products, which could result in increased expenses and negatively affect our operations. furthermore, the cost of raw materials and finished products may fluctuate due to movements in cross-currency transaction rates. rising commodity, energy, and other input costs could materially and adversely affect our cost of operations, including the manufacture, transportation, and distribution of our products, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. although we monitor our exposure to commodity prices as an integral part of our overall risk management program, and seek to hedge against input price increases to the extent we deem appropriate, we do not fully hedge against changes in commodity prices, and our hedging strategies may not protect us from increases in specific raw materials costs. for example, hedging our costs for one of our key commodities, dairy products, is difficult because dairy futures markets are not as developed as many other commodities futures markets. continued volatility or sustained increases in the prices of commodities and other supplies we purchase could increase the costs of our products, and our profitability could suffer. moreover, increases in the prices of our products to cover these increased costs may result in lower sales volumes. if we are not successful in our hedging activities, or if we are unable to price our products to cover increased costs, then commodity and other input price volatility or increases could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. we rely on our management team and other key personnel. we depend on the skills, working relationships, and continued services of key personnel, including our experienced management team. in addition, our ability to achieve our operating goals depends on our ability to identify, hire, train, and retain qualified individuals. we compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented personnel, and we may lose key personnel or fail to attract, train, and retain other talented personnel. any such loss or failure could adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. we may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits from streamlining actions to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and improve our competitiveness. we have implemented a number of cost savings initiatives, including our integration program (as defined below), that we believe are important to position our business for future success and growth. we have evaluated changes to our organization structure to enable us to reduce costs, simplify or improve processes, and improve our competitiveness. our future success may depend upon our ability to realize the benefits of our cost savings initiatives. in addition, certain of our initiatives may lead to increased costs in other aspects of our business such as increased conversion, outsourcing, or distribution costs. we must be efficient in executing our plans to achieve cost savings and operate efficiently in the highly competitive food and beverage industry, particularly in an environment of increased competitive activity. to capitalize on our efforts, we must carefully evaluate investments in our business, and execute on those areas with the most potential return on investment. if we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits from our efforts, we could be cost disadvantaged in the marketplace, and our competitiveness, production, and profitability could be adversely affected. 9 changes in our relationships with significant customers or suppliers could adversely impact us. we derive significant portions of our sales from certain significant customers (see sales and customers within item 1, business , of this report). there can be no assurance that all of our significant customers will continue to purchase our products in the same mix or quantities or on the same terms as in the past, particularly as increasingly powerful retailers may demand lower pricing and focus on developing their own brands. the loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in sales or a change in the mix of products we sell to a significant customer could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. disputes with significant suppliers, including disputes related to pricing or performance, could adversely affect our ability to supply products to our customers and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. in addition, the financial condition of such customers and suppliers is affected in large part by conditions and events that are beyond our control. a significant deterioration in the financial condition of significant customers and suppliers could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. we may not be able to successfully execute our international expansion strategy. we plan to drive additional growth and profitability through international markets. consumer demands, behaviors, tastes and purchasing trends may differ in international markets and, as a result, our sales may not be successful or meet expectations, or the margins on those sales may be less than currently anticipated. we may also face difficulties integrating foreign business operations with our current sourcing, distribution, information technology systems, and other operations. any of these challenges could hinder our success in new markets or new distribution channels. there can be no assurance that we will successfully complete any planned international expansion or that any new business will be profitable or meet our expectations. changes in tax laws and interpretations could adversely affect our business. we are subject to income and other taxes in the u.s. and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. our domestic and foreign tax liabilities are dependent on the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed. additionally, the amount of taxes paid is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. a number of factors influence our effective tax rate, including changes in tax laws and treaties as well as the interpretation of existing laws and rules. federal, state, and local governments and administrative bodies within the u.s., which represents a majority of our operations, and other foreign jurisdictions have implemented, or are considering, a variety of broad tax, trade, and other regulatory reforms that may impact us. for example, the tax cuts and jobs act (the u.s. tax reform ) enacted on december 22, 2017 resulted in changes in our corporate tax rate, our deferred income taxes, and the taxation of foreign earnings. we are still assessing the impact of the u.s. tax reform, and while a number of impacts are anticipated to be positive, certain provisions may have adverse or uncertain effects. relatedly, changes in tax laws resulting from the organization for economic co-operation and development's (oecd) multi-jurisdictional plan of action to address base erosion and profit sharing could impact our effective tax rate. it is not currently possible to accurately determine the potential impact of these proposed or future changes, but these changes could have a material impact on our business. significant judgment, knowledge, and experience are required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. our future effective tax rate is impacted by a number of factors including changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, increases in expenses not deductible for tax, including impairment of goodwill in connection with acquisitions, and changes in available tax credits. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are also regularly subject to audits by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. economic and political pressures to increase tax revenue in various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes more difficult. the results of an audit or litigation could adversely affect our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. compliance with changes in laws, regulations, and related interpretations could impact our business. as a large, global food and beverage company, we operate in a highly-regulated environment with constantly-evolving legal and regulatory frameworks. various laws and regulations govern production, storage, distribution, sales, advertising, labeling, including on-pack claims, information or disclosures, marketing, licensing, trade, labor, tax, and environmental matters, as well as health and safety practices. government authorities regularly change laws and regulations and their interpretations. our compliance with new or revised laws and regulations, or the interpretation and application of existing laws and regulations, could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations. as a consequence of the legal and regulatory environment in which we operate, we are faced with a heightened risk of legal claims and regulatory enforcement actions. 10 although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with existing laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that courts or regulators will agree with our interpretations or that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies and procedures. moreover, a failure to maintain effective control processes could lead to violations, unintentional or otherwise, of laws and regulations. legal claims or regulatory enforcement actions arising out of our failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our product sales, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. in addition, the costs and other effects of defending potential and pending litigation and administrative actions against us may be difficult to determine and could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. product recalls or other product liability claims could materially and adversely affect us. selling products for human consumption involves inherent legal and other risks, including product contamination, spoilage, product tampering, allergens, or other adulteration. we could decide to, or be required to, recall products due to suspected or confirmed product contamination, adulteration, product mislabeling or misbranding, tampering, or other deficiencies. product recalls or market withdrawals could result in significant losses due to their costs, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of the product for a period of time. we could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients, or the food safety system generally. adverse attention about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may damage our reputation, discourage consumers from buying our products, or cause production and delivery disruptions. we may also suffer losses if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations, or if our products cause injury, illness, or death. in addition, our marketing could face claims of false or deceptive advertising or other criticism. a significant product liability or other legal judgment or a related regulatory enforcement action against us, or a significant product recall, may materially and adversely affect our reputation and profitability. moreover, even if a product liability or fraud claim is unsuccessful, has no merit, or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our products or processes could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. unanticipated business disruptions could adversely affect our ability to provide our products to our customers. we have a complex network of suppliers, owned manufacturing locations, co-manufacturing locations, distribution networks, and information systems that support our ability to consistently provide our products to our customers. factors that are hard to predict or beyond our control, such as weather, raw material shortages, natural disasters, fire or explosion, political unrest, terrorism, generalized labor unrest, or health pandemics, could damage or disrupt our operations or our suppliers' or co-manufacturers' operations. these disruptions may require additional resources to restore our supply chain or distribution network. if we cannot respond to disruptions in our operations, whether by finding alternative suppliers or replacing capacity at key manufacturing or distribution locations, or if we are unable to quickly repair damage to our information, production, or supply systems, we may be late in delivering, or be unable to deliver, products to our customers and may also be unable to track orders, inventory, receivables, and payables. if that occurs, our customers' confidence in us and long-term demand for our products could decline. any of these events could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. we may not successfully identify or complete strategic acquisitions, alliances, divestitures or joint ventures. from time to time, we may evaluate acquisition candidates, alliances, or joint ventures that may strategically fit our business objectives or we may consider divesting businesses that do not meet our strategic objectives or growth or profitability targets. these activities may present financial, managerial, and operational risks including, but not limited to, diversion of management's attention from existing core businesses, difficulties integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, inability to effectively and immediately implement control environment processes across a diverse employee population, adverse effects on existing or acquired customer and supplier business relationships, and potential disputes with buyers, sellers, or partners. activities in such areas are regulated by numerous antitrust and competition laws in the united states, the european union, and other jurisdictions, and we may be required to obtain the approval of acquisition and joint venture transactions by competition authorities, as well as to satisfy other legal requirements. to the extent we undertake acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures, or other developments outside our core regions or in new categories, we may face additional risks related to such developments. for example, risks related to foreign operations include compliance with u.s. laws affecting operations outside of the united states, such as the fcpa, currency rate fluctuations, compliance with foreign regulations and laws, including tax laws, and exposure to politically and economically volatile developing markets. any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. 11 our performance may be adversely affected by economic and political conditions in the united states and in various other nations where we do business. our performance has been in the past and may continue in the future to be impacted by economic and political conditions in the united states and in other nations where we do business. economic and financial uncertainties in our international markets, including uncertainties surrounding the united kingdom's impending withdrawal from the european union (commonly referred to as brexit ) and changes to major international trade arrangements (e.g., the north american free trade agreement), could negatively impact our operations and sales. other factors impacting our operations in the united states and in international locations where we do business include export and import restrictions, currency exchange rates, currency devaluation, cash repatriation restrictions, recessionary conditions, foreign ownership restrictions, nationalization, the impact of hyperinflationary environments, terrorist acts, and political unrest. such factors in either domestic or foreign jurisdictions could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. for further information on venezuela, see note 13, venezuela - foreign currency and inflation, to the consolidated financial statements. volatility of capital markets or macro-economic factors could adversely affect our business. changes in financial and capital markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity, and interest rate volatility, may increase the cost of financing as well as the risks of refinancing maturing debt. in addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term ratings assigned by rating organizations. a decrease in these ratings could limit our access to capital markets and increase our borrowing costs, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. some of our customers and counterparties are highly leveraged. consolidations in some of the industries in which our customers operate have created larger customers, some of which are highly leveraged and facing increased competition and continued credit market volatility. these factors have caused some customers to be less profitable and increased our exposure to credit risk. a significant adverse change in the financial and/or credit position of a customer or counterparty could require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that customer or counterparty and could limit our ability to collect receivables. this could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and liquidity. our results could be adversely impacted as a result of increased pension, labor, and people-related expenses. inflationary pressures and any shortages in the labor market could increase labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. our labor costs include the cost of providing employee benefits in the united states, canada, and other foreign jurisdictions, including pension, health and welfare, and severance benefits. any declines in market returns could adversely impact the funding of pension plans, the assets of which are invested in a diversified portfolio of equity and fixed-income securities and other investments. additionally, the annual costs of benefits vary with increased costs of health care and the outcome of collectively-bargained wage and benefit agreements. furthermore, we may be subject to increased costs or experience adverse effects to our operating results if we are unable to renew collectively bargained agreements on satisfactory terms. our financial condition and ability to meet the needs of our customers could be materially and adversely affected if strikes or work stoppages and interruptions occur as a result of delayed negotiations with union-represented employees both in and outside of the united states. volatility in the market value of all or a portion of the derivatives we use to manage exposures to fluctuations in commodity prices may cause volatility in our operating results and net income. we use commodity futures and options to partially hedge the price of certain input costs, including dairy products, coffee beans, meat products, wheat, corn products, soybean oils, sugar and natural gas. changes in the values of these derivatives are currently recorded in net income, resulting in volatility in both gross profits and net income. we report these gains and losses in cost of products sold in our consolidated statements of income to the extent we utilize the underlying input in our manufacturing process. we report these gains and losses in general corporate expenses in our segment operating results until we sell the underlying products, at which time we reclassify the gains and losses to segment operating results. we may experience volatile earnings as a result of these accounting treatments. 12 our net sales and net income may be exposed to exchange rate fluctuations. we derive a substantial portion of our net sales from international operations. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenue, and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the british pound sterling, euro, australian dollar, canadian dollar, new zealand dollar, brazilian real, indonesian rupiah, and chinese renminbi. since our consolidated financial statements are denominated in u.s. dollars, fluctuations in exchange rates from period to period will have an impact on our reported results. we have implemented currency hedges intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. however, these hedging strategies may not be successful and any of our unhedged foreign exchange exposures will continue to be subject to market fluctuations. in addition, in certain circumstances, we may incur costs in one currency related to services or products for which we are paid in a different currency. as a result, factors associated with international operations, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, could significantly affect our results of operations and financial condition. we are significantly dependent on information technology and we may be unable to protect our information systems against service interruption, misappropriation of data, or breaches of security. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic and financial information, to manage a variety of business processes and activities, and to comply with regulatory, legal, and tax requirements. we also depend on our information technology infrastructure for digital marketing activities and for electronic communications among our locations, personnel, customers, and suppliers. these information technology systems, some of which are managed by third parties, may be susceptible to damage, invasions, disruptions, or shutdowns due to hardware failures, computer viruses, hacker attacks, and other cybersecurity risks, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophic events or other factors. if our information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption, or shutdown, by unintentional or malicious actions of employees and contractors or by cyber-attacks, and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, we could experience business disruptions, reputational damage, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the leakage of confidential information, and the loss of customers and sales, causing our product sales, financial condition, and operating results to be adversely affected and the reporting of our financial results to be delayed. in addition, if we are unable to prevent security breaches or disclosure of non-public information, we may suffer financial and reputational damage, litigation or remediation costs, fines, or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our partners, customers, consumers, or suppliers. misuse, leakage, or falsification of information could result in violations of data privacy laws and regulations, damage to our reputation and credibility, loss of opportunities to acquire or divest of businesses or brands, and loss of ability to commercialize products developed through research and development efforts and, therefore, could have a negative impact on net sales. in addition, we may suffer financial and reputational damage because of lost or misappropriated confidential information belonging to us, our current or former employees, or to our suppliers or consumers, and may become subject to legal action and increased regulatory oversight. we could also be required to spend significant financial and other resources to remedy the damage caused by a security breach or to repair or replace networks and information systems. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also our patents, trade secrets, copyrights and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements, third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements, and policing of third-party misuses of our intellectual property. our failure to obtain or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our technology, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business. we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, brands, or products. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. third-party claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain products. 13 our results of operations could be affected by natural events in the locations in which we or our customers, suppliers or regulators operate. we may be impacted by severe weather and other geological events, including hurricanes, earthquakes, floods or tsunamis that could disrupt our operations or the operations of our customers, suppliers, and regulators. natural disasters or other disruptions at any of our facilities or our suppliers' facilities may impair or delay the delivery of our products. influenza or other pandemics could disrupt production of our products, reduce demand for certain of our products, or disrupt the marketplace in the foodservice or retail environment with consequent material adverse effects on our results of operations. while we insure against many of these events and certain business interruption risks, we cannot provide any assurance that such insurance will compensate us for any losses incurred as a result of natural or other disasters. to the extent we are unable to, or cannot, financially mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or effectively manage such events if they occur, particularly when a product is sourced from a single location, there could be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, and additional resources could be required to restore our supply chain. our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our business. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness, and are permitted to incur a substantial amount of additional indebtedness, including secured debt. our existing debt, together with any incurrence of additional indebtedness, could have important consequences, including, but not limited to: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, research and development, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes; resulting in a downgrade to our credit rating, which could adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity, and access to capital markets; restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are not as highly leveraged; making it more difficult for us to make payments on our existing indebtedness; requiring a substantial portion of cash flows from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; exposing us to risks related to fluctuations in foreign currency as we earn profits in a variety of currencies around the world and substantially all of our debt is denominated in u.s. dollars; and in the case of any additional indebtedness, exacerbating the risks associated with our substantial financial leverage. in addition, there can be no assurance that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future debt or equity financings will be available to us to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund other needs. as a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. there is no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all. any inability to generate sufficient cash flow or to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. the creditors who hold our debt could also accelerate amounts due in the event that we default, which could potentially trigger a default or acceleration of the maturity of our other debt. if our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to obtain waivers from the required creditors under our indebtedness instruments to avoid being in default. if we breach the covenants under our indebtedness instruments and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required creditors. if this occurs, we would be in default under our indebtedness instruments, the creditors could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. 14 the sponsors have substantial control over us and may have conflicts of interest with us in the future. the sponsors own approximately 51% of our common stock. six of our 11 directors had been directors of heinz prior to the closing of the 2015 merger and remained directors of kraft heinz pursuant to the merger agreement. in addition, some of our executive officers, including bernardo hees, our chief executive officer, are partners of 3g capital, one of the sponsors. as a result, the sponsors have the potential to exercise influence over management and have substantial control over decisions of our board of directors as well as over any action requiring the approval of the holders of our common stock, including adopting any amendments to our charter, electing directors, and approving mergers or sales of substantially all of our capital stock or our assets. in addition, to the extent that the sponsors collectively hold a majority of our common stock, they together would have the power to take shareholder action by written consent to adopt amendments to our charter or take other actions, such as corporate transactions, that require the vote of holders of a majority of our outstanding common stock. the directors designated by the sponsors may have significant authority to effect decisions affecting our capital structure, including the issuance of additional capital stock, incurrence of additional indebtedness, the implementation of stock repurchase programs and the decision of whether or not to declare dividends. additionally, the sponsors are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. the sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. so long as the sponsors continue to own a significant amount of our equity, they will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause volatility in the price of our common stock or cause the share price to fall. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock, and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. kraft heinz, 3g capital, and berkshire hathaway entered into a registration rights agreement requiring us to register for resale under the securities act all registrable shares held by 3g capital and berkshire hathaway, which represents all shares of our common stock held by the sponsors as of the date of the closing of the 2015 merger. as of the closing of the 2015 merger, registrable shares represented approximately 51% of our outstanding common stock on a fully diluted basis. although the registrable shares are subject to certain holdback and suspension periods, the registrable shares are not subject to a lock-up or similar restriction under the registration rights agreement. accordingly, sales of a large number of registrable shares may be made upon registration of such shares with the sec in accordance with the terms of the registration rights agreement. registration and sales of our common stock effected pursuant to the registration rights agreement will increase the number of shares being sold in the public market and may increase the volatility of the price of our common stock. our ability to pay regular dividends to our shareholders is subject to the discretion of the board of directors and may be limited by our debt agreements or limitations under delaware law. although it is currently anticipated that we will continue to pay regular quarterly dividends, any such determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of the board of directors and will be dependent on then-existing conditions, including our financial condition, income, legal requirements, including limitations under delaware law, and other factors the board of directors deems relevant. the board of directors may, in its sole discretion, change the amount or frequency of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. for these reasons, shareholders will not be able to rely on dividends to receive a return on investment. accordingly, realization of any gain on shares of our common stock may depend on the appreciation of the price of our common stock, which may never occur. 15 while we have remediated the previously-identified material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we may identify other material weaknesses in the future. in november 2017, we restated our consolidated financial statements for the quarters ended april 1, 2017 and july 1, 2017 in order to correctly classify cash receipts from the payments on sold receivables (which are cash receipts on the underlying trade receivables that have already been securitized) to cash provided by investing activities (from cash provided by operating activities) within our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. in connection with these restatements, management identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to the misapplication of accounting standards update 2016-15. specifically, we did not maintain effective controls over the adoption of new accounting standards, including communication with the appropriate individuals in coming to our conclusions on the application of new accounting standards. as a result of this material weakness, our management concluded that we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting as of april 1, 2017 and july 1, 2017. while we have remediated the material weakness and our management has determined that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of december 30, 2017, there can be no assurance that our controls will remain adequate. the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting is subject to various inherent limitations, including judgments used in decision-making, the nature and complexity of the transactions we undertake, assumptions about the likelihood of future events, the soundness of our systems, cost limitations, and other limitations. if other material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control are discovered or occur in the future or we otherwise must restate our financial statements, it could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations or financial condition, restrict our ability to access the capital markets, require us to expend significant resources to correct the weaknesses or deficiencies, subject us to fines, penalties, investigations or judgments, harm our reputation, or otherwise cause a decline in investor confidence. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risks from adverse changes in commodity prices, foreign exchange rates, interest rates, and production costs. we monitor and manage these exposures as part of our overall risk management program. our risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects that volatility in these markets may have on our operating results. we maintain risk management policies that principally use derivative financial instruments to reduce significant, unanticipated fluctuations in earnings and cash flows that may arise from variations in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates. see note 1, background and basis of presentation , and note 11, financial instruments , to the consolidated financial statements for details of our market risk management policies and the financial instruments used to hedge those exposures. by policy, we do not engage in speculative or leveraged transactions, nor do we hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. effect of hypothetical 10% fluctuation in market prices: the potential gain or loss on the fair value of our outstanding commodity contracts, foreign exchange contracts, cross-currency, and swap contracts, assuming a hypothetical 10% fluctuation in commodity prices, currency rates, and swap rates, would be (in millions): december 30, 2017 (52 weeks) december 31, 2016 (52 weeks) commodity contracts $ 23 $ 39 foreign currency contracts 173 179 cross-currency swap contracts 287 306 it should be noted that any change in the fair value of the contracts, real or hypothetical, would be significantly offset by an inverse change in the value of the underlying hedged items. in relation to foreign currency contracts, this hypothetical calculation assumes that each exchange rate would change in the same direction relative to the u.s. dollar. our utilization of financial instruments in managing market risk exposures described above is consistent with the prior year. changes in our portfolio of financial instruments are a function of our results of operations, debt repayment and debt issuances, market effects on debt and foreign currency, and our acquisition and divestiture activities. 46risk factors. 11 risk factors. industry risks we operate in a highly competitive industry. the food and beverage industry is highly competitive across all of our product offerings. our principal competitors in these categories are manufacturers, as well as retailers with their own branded and private label products. we compete based on product innovation, price, product quality, nutritional value, service, taste, convenience, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing and distribution, promotional activity, and the ability to identify and satisfy changing consumer preferences. we may need to reduce our prices in response to competitive and customer pressures, including pressures in relation to private label products that are generally sold at lower prices. these pressures have restricted and may in the future continue to restrict our ability to increase prices in response to commodity and other cost increases. failure to effectively assess, timely change and set proper pricing, promotions, or trade incentives may negatively impact the achievement of our objectives. 11 the rapid emergence of new distribution channels, particularly e-commerce, may create consumer price deflation, affecting our retail customer relationships and presenting additional challenges to increasing prices in response to commodity or other cost increases. we may also need to increase or reallocate spending on marketing, retail trade incentives, materials, advertising, and new product or channel innovation to maintain or increase market share. these expenditures are subject to risks, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance of our efforts. if we are unable to compete effectively, our profitability, financial condition, and operating results may decline. our success depends on our ability to correctly predict, identify, and interpret changes in consumer preferences and demand, to offer new products to meet those changes, and to respond to competitive innovation. consumer preferences for food and beverage products change continually and rapidly. our success depends on our ability to predict, identify, and interpret the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to consumer preferences, including with respect to health and wellness. if we do not offer products that appeal to consumers, our sales and market share will decrease, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. we must distinguish between short-term trends and long-term changes in consumer preferences. if we do not accurately predict which shifts in consumer preferences will be long-term, or if we fail to introduce new and improved products to satisfy those preferences, our sales could decline. in addition, because of our varied consumer base, we must offer an array of products that satisfy a broad spectrum of consumer preferences. if we fail to expand our product offerings successfully across product categories, or if we do not rapidly develop products in faster-growing or more profitable categories, demand for our products could decrease, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health implications of certain food and beverage products (including as they relate to obesity or other health concerns) could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. we strive to respond to consumer preferences and social expectations, but we may not be successful in our efforts. continued negative perceptions and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. in addition, achieving growth depends on our successful development, introduction, and marketing of innovative new products and line extensions. there are inherent risks associated with new product or packaging introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance or potential impacts on our existing product offerings. we may be required to increase expenditures for new product development. successful innovation depends on our ability to correctly anticipate customer and consumer acceptance, to obtain, protect, and maintain necessary intellectual property rights, and to avoid infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. we must also be able to respond successfully to technological advances by and intellectual property rights of our competitors, and failure to do so could compromise our competitive position and impact our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. changes in the retail landscape or the loss of key retail customers could adversely affect our financial performance. retail customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs, and food distributors in our major markets, may continue to consolidate, resulting in fewer but larger customers for our business across various channels. consolidation also produces larger retail customers that may seek to leverage their positions to improve their profitability by demanding improved efficiency, lower pricing, more favorable terms, increased promotional programs, or specifically-tailored product offerings. in addition, larger retailers have scale to develop supply chains that permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own private label products. retail consolidation and increasing retailer power could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. retail consolidation also increases the risk that adverse changes in our customers' business operations or financial performance may have a corresponding material and adverse effect on us. for example, if our customers cannot access sufficient funds or financing, then they may delay, decrease, or cancel purchases of our products, or delay or fail to pay us for previous purchases, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. in addition, technology-based systems, which give consumers the ability to shop through e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications, are also significantly altering the retail landscape in many of our markets. if we are unable to adjust to developments in these changing landscapes, we may be disadvantaged in key channels and with certain consumers, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. 12 changes in our relationships with significant customers, suppliers, or other business relationships could adversely impact us. we derive significant portions of our sales from certain significant customers (see sales and customers within item 1, business ). there can be no assurance that all of our significant customers will continue to purchase our products in the same mix or quantities or on the same terms as in the past, particularly as increasingly powerful retailers may demand lower pricing and focus on developing their own brands. the loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in sales or a change in the mix of products we sell to a significant customer could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. disputes with significant suppliers, including disputes related to pricing or performance, could adversely affect our ability to supply products to our customers and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. in addition, terminations of relationships with other significant contractual counterparties, including licensors, could adversely affect our portfolio, product sales, financial condition, and operating results. in addition, the financial condition of such customers, suppliers, and other significant contractual counterparties are affected in large part by conditions and events that are beyond our control. significant deteriorations in the financial conditions of significant customers, suppliers, and other business relationships could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. maintaining, extending, and expanding our reputation and brand image are essential to our business success. we have many iconic brands with long-standing consumer recognition across the globe. our success depends on our ability to maintain brand image for our existing products, extend our brands to new platforms, and expand our brand image with new product offerings. we seek to maintain, extend, and expand our brand image through marketing investments, including advertising and consumer promotions, and product innovation. negative perceptions on the role of food and beverage marketing could adversely affect our brand image or lead to stricter regulations and scrutiny of marketing practices. moreover, adverse publicity about legal or regulatory action against us, our quality and safety, our environmental or social impacts, our products becoming unavailable to consumers, or our suppliers and, in some cases, our competitors, could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine our customers' confidence, and reduce demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. furthermore, existing or increased legal or regulatory restrictions on our advertising, consumer promotions, and marketing, or our response to those restrictions, could limit our efforts to maintain, extend, and expand our brands. in addition, our success in maintaining, extending, and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment. we increasingly rely on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. the growing use of social and digital media increases the speed and extent that information, including misinformation, and opinions can be shared. negative posts or comments about us, our brands or our products, or our suppliers and, in some cases, our competitors, on social or digital media, whether or not valid, could seriously damage our brands and reputation. in addition, we might fail to appropriately target our marketing efforts, anticipate consumer preferences, or invest sufficiently in maintaining, extending, and expanding our brand image. if we do not maintain, extend, and expand our reputation or brand image, then our product sales, financial condition, and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. we must leverage our brand value to compete against private label products. in nearly all of our product categories, we compete with branded products as well as private label products, which are typically sold at lower prices. our products must provide higher value and/or quality to our consumers than alternatives, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty. consumers may not buy our products if relative differences in value and/or quality between our products and private label products change in favor of competitors' products or if consumers perceive this type of change. if consumers prefer private label products, then we could lose market share or sales volumes or shift our product mix to lower margin offerings. a change in consumer preferences could also cause us to increase capital, marketing, and other expenditures, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. we may be unable to drive revenue growth in our key product categories, increase our market share, or add products that are in faster-growing and more profitable categories. our future results will depend on our ability to drive revenue growth in our key product categories and growth in the food and beverage industry in the countries in which we operate. our future results will also depend on our ability to enhance our portfolio by adding innovative new products in faster-growing and more profitable categories and our ability to increase market share in our existing product categories. our failure to drive revenue growth, limit market share decreases in our key product categories, or develop innovative products for new and existing categories could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. 13 product recalls or other product liability claims could materially and adversely affect us. selling products for human consumption involves inherent legal and other risks, including product contamination, spoilage, product tampering, allergens, or other adulteration. we have decided and could in the future decide to, and have been or could in the future be required to, recall products due to suspected or confirmed product contamination, adulteration, product mislabeling or misbranding, tampering, undeclared allergens, or other deficiencies. product recalls or market withdrawals could result in significant losses due to their costs, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of the product for a period of time. we could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients, or the food safety system generally. adverse attention about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may damage our reputation, discourage consumers from buying our products, or cause production and delivery disruptions that could negatively impact our net sales and financial condition. we may also suffer losses if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations, or if our products cause injury, illness, or death. in addition, our marketing could face claims of false or deceptive advertising or other criticism. a significant product liability or other legal judgment or a related regulatory enforcement action against us, or a significant product recall, may materially and adversely affect our reputation and profitability. moreover, even if a product liability or fraud claim is unsuccessful, has no merit, or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our products or processes could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. unanticipated business disruptions could adversely affect our ability to provide our products to our customers. we have a complex network of suppliers, owned and leased manufacturing locations, co-manufacturing locations, distribution networks, and information systems that support our ability to consistently provide our products to our customers. factors that are hard to predict or beyond our control, such as weather, raw material shortages, natural disasters, fires or explosions, political unrest, terrorism, generalized labor unrest, or health pandemics, could damage or disrupt our operations or our suppliers', co-manufacturers' or distributors' operations. these disruptions may require additional resources to restore our supply chain or distribution network. if we cannot respond to disruptions in our operations, whether by finding alternative suppliers or replacing capacity at key manufacturing or distribution locations, or if we are unable to quickly repair damage to our information, production, or supply systems, we may be late in delivering, or be unable to deliver, products to our customers and may also be unable to track orders, inventory, receivables, and payables. if that occurs, our customers' confidence in us and long-term demand for our products could decline. any of these events could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. business risks we may not successfully identify, complete, or realize the benefits from strategic acquisitions, alliances, divestitures, joint ventures, or other investments. from time to time, we have evaluated and may continue to evaluate acquisition candidates, alliances, joint ventures, or other investments that may strategically fit our business objectives, and we have divested and may consider divesting businesses that do not meet our strategic objectives or growth or profitability targets. these activities may present financial, managerial, and operational risks including, but not limited to, diversion of management's attention from existing core businesses, difficulties integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, inability to effectively and immediately implement control environment processes across a diverse employee population, adverse effects on existing or acquired customer and supplier business relationships, and potential disputes with buyers, sellers, or partners. activities in such areas are regulated by numerous antitrust and competition laws in the united states, canada, the european union, and other jurisdictions, and we may be required to obtain the approval of these transactions by competition authorities, as well as to satisfy other legal requirements. to the extent we undertake acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures, investments, or other developments outside our core regions or in new categories, we may face additional risks related to such developments. for example, risks related to foreign operations include compliance with u.s. laws affecting operations outside of the united states, such as the fcpa, currency rate fluctuations, compliance with foreign regulations and laws, including tax laws, and exposure to politically and economically volatile developing markets. any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. 14 we may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits from prior or future streamlining actions to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and improve our competitiveness. we have implemented a number of cost savings initiatives, including our integration program (as defined in overview , in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations ), that we believe are important to position our business for future success and growth. we have evaluated and continue to evaluate changes to our organizational structure to enable us to reduce costs, simplify or improve processes, and improve our competitiveness. our future success may depend upon our ability to realize the benefits of these or other cost savings initiatives. in addition, certain of our initiatives may lead to increased costs in other aspects of our business such as increased conversion, outsourcing, or distribution costs. we must accurately predict costs and be efficient in executing any plans to achieve cost savings and operate efficiently in the highly competitive food and beverage industry, particularly in an environment of increased competitive activity. to capitalize on our efforts, we must carefully evaluate investments in our business, and execute in those areas with the most potential return on investment. if we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits from any cost-saving efforts, we could be cost disadvantaged in the marketplace, and our competitiveness, production, profitability, financial conditions, and operating results could be adversely affected. we may not be able to successfully execute our strategic initiatives. we plan to continue to conduct strategic initiatives in various markets. consumer demands, behaviors, tastes and purchasing trends may differ in these markets and, as a result, our sales may not be successful or meet expectations, or the margins on those sales may be less than currently anticipated. we may also face difficulties integrating new business operations with our current sourcing, distribution, information technology systems, and other operations. any of these challenges could hinder our success in new markets or new distribution channels. we may also face difficulties divesting business operations with minimal impact to the retained businesses. there can be no assurance that we will successfully complete any planned strategic initiatives, that any new business will be profitable or meet our expectations, or that any divestiture will be completed without disruption, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our international operations subject us to additional risks and costs and may cause our profitability to decline. we are a global company with sales and operations in numerous countries within developed and emerging markets. approximately 31% of our 2018 net sales were generated outside of the united states. as a result, we are subject to risks inherent in global operations. these risks, which can vary substantially by market, are described in many of the risk factors discussed in this section and also include: compliance with u.s. laws affecting operations outside of the united states, including anti-bribery laws such as the fcpa; changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws or their interpretations, or tax audit implications; the imposition of increased or new tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, or similar restrictions on our sales or imports, trade agreements, regulations, taxes, or policies that might negatively affect our sales or costs; currency devaluations or fluctuations in currency values; compliance with antitrust and competition laws, data privacy laws, and a variety of other local, national, and multi-national regulations and laws in multiple jurisdictions; discriminatory or conflicting fiscal policies in or across foreign jurisdictions; changes in capital controls, including currency exchange controls, government currency policies, or other limits on our ability to import raw materials or finished product into various countries or repatriate cash from outside the united states; challenges associated with cross-border product distribution; changes in local regulations and laws, the uncertainty of enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions, and foreign ownership restrictions and the potential for nationalization or expropriation of property or other resources; risks and costs associated with political and economic instability, corruption, anti-american sentiment, and social and ethnic unrest in the countries in which we operate; the risks of operating in developing or emerging markets in which there are significant uncertainties regarding the interpretation, application, and enforceability of laws and regulations and the enforceability of contract rights and intellectual property rights; risks arising from the significant and rapid fluctuations in currency exchange markets and the decisions made and positions taken to hedge such volatility; changing labor conditions and difficulties in staffing our operations; greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles; and 15 design, implementation, and use of effective control environment processes across our diverse operations and employee base. in addition, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption, expropriation, and other economic or political uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations or customer demand. slow economic growth or high unemployment in the markets in which we operate could constrain consumer spending, and declining consumer purchasing power could adversely impact our profitability. all of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased sales, and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations. our performance may be adversely affected by economic and political conditions in the united states and in various other nations where we do business. our performance has been in the past and may continue in the future to be impacted by economic and political conditions in the united states and in other nations where we do business. economic and financial uncertainties in our international markets, including uncertainties surrounding the legal and regulatory effects of brexit, changes to major international trade arrangements (e.g., the united states-mexico-canada agreement), and the imposition of tariffs by certain foreign governments, including china and canada, in response to the imposition of tariffs or modification of trade relationships by the united states, could negatively impact our operations and sales. other factors impacting our operations in the united states and in international locations where we do business include export and import restrictions, currency exchange rates, currency devaluation, cash repatriation restrictions, recessionary conditions, foreign ownership restrictions, nationalization, the impact of hyperinflationary environments, terrorist acts, and political unrest. such factors in either domestic or foreign jurisdictions, and our responses to them, could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. for further information on venezuela, see note 16, venezuela - foreign currency and inflation, in item 8, financial statements and supplementary data . we rely on our management team and other key personnel and may be unable to hire or retain key personnel or a highly skilled and diverse global workforce. we depend on the skills, working relationships, and continued services of key personnel, including our experienced management team. in addition, our ability to achieve our operating goals depends on our ability to identify, hire, train, and retain qualified individuals. we compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented personnel, and we may lose key personnel or fail to attract, train, and retain other talented personnel and a diverse global workforce with the skills and in the locations we need to operate and grow our business. unplanned turnover, failure to attract and develop personnel with key emerging capabilities such as e-commerce and digital marketing skills, or failure to develop adequate succession plans for leadership positions, including the chief executive officer position, could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitiveness. changes in immigration laws and policies could also make it more difficult for us to recruit or relocate skilled employees. any such loss, failure, or limitation could adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. we are significantly dependent on information technology, and we may be unable to protect our information systems against service interruption, misappropriation of data, or breaches of security. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic and financial information, to manage a variety of business processes and activities, and to comply with regulatory, legal, and tax requirements. we also depend on our information technology infrastructure for digital marketing activities and for electronic communications among our locations, personnel, customers, and suppliers. these information technology systems, some of which are managed by third parties, may be susceptible to damage, invasions, disruptions, or shutdowns due to hardware failures, computer viruses, hacker attacks and other cybersecurity risks, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophic events or other factors. if our information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption, or shutdown, by unintentional or malicious actions of employees and contractors or by cyber-attacks, and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, we could experience business disruptions, reputational damage, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the leakage of confidential information, and the loss of customers and sales, causing our product sales, financial condition, and operating results to be adversely affected and the reporting of our financial results to be delayed. in addition, if we are unable to prevent security breaches or disclosure of non-public information, we may suffer financial and reputational damage, litigation or remediation costs, fines, or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our partners, customers, consumers, or suppliers. 16 misuse, leakage, or falsification of information could result in violations of data privacy laws and regulations, damage to our reputation and credibility, loss of opportunities to acquire or divest of businesses or brands, and loss of ability to commercialize products developed through research and development efforts and, therefore, could have a negative impact on net sales. in addition, we may suffer financial and reputational damage because of lost or misappropriated confidential information belonging to us, our current or former employees, or to our suppliers or consumers, and may become subject to legal action and increased regulatory oversight. we could also be required to spend significant financial and other resources to remedy the damage caused by a security breach or to repair or replace networks and information systems. our results of operations could be affected by natural events in the locations in which we or our customers, suppliers, distributors, or regulators operate. we have been and may in the future be impacted by severe weather and other geological events, including hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, or tsunamis that could disrupt our operations or the operations of our customers, suppliers, distributors, or regulators. natural disasters or other disruptions at any of our facilities or our suppliers' or distributors' facilities may impair or delay the delivery of our products. influenza or other pandemics could disrupt production of our products, reduce demand for certain of our products, or disrupt the marketplace in the foodservice or retail environment with consequent material adverse effects on our results of operations. while we insure against many of these events and certain business interruption risks and have policies and procedures to manage business continuity planning, we cannot provide any assurance that such insurance will compensate us for any losses incurred as a result of natural or other disasters or that our business continuity plans will effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner. to the extent we are unable to, or cannot, financially mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or effectively manage such events if they occur, particularly when a product is sourced from a single location, there could be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, and additional resources could be required to restore our supply chain. the sponsors have substantial control over us and may have conflicts of interest with us in the future. as of december 29, 2018, the sponsors own approximately 49% of our common stock. four of our current 11 directors had been directors of heinz prior to the closing of the 2015 merger and remained directors of kraft heinz pursuant to the merger agreement. in addition, the board elected joao m. castro-neves, a partner of 3g capital, one of the sponsors, effective june 12, 2019. furthermore, some of our executive officers, including bernardo hees, our chief executive officer, are partners of 3g capital. as a result, the sponsors have the potential to exercise influence over management and have substantial control over decisions of our board of directors as well as over any action requiring the approval of the holders of our common stock, including adopting any amendments to our charter, electing directors, and approving mergers or sales of substantially all of our capital stock or our assets. in addition, to the extent that the sponsors were to collectively hold a majority of our common stock, they together would have the power to take shareholder action by written consent to adopt amendments to our charter or take other actions, such as corporate transactions, that require the vote of holders of a majority of our outstanding common stock. the directors designated by the sponsors may have significant authority to effect decisions affecting our capital structure, including the issuance of additional capital stock, the incurrence of additional indebtedness, the implementation of stock repurchase programs, and the decision of whether to declare dividends and the amount of any such dividends. additionally, the sponsors are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. the sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. so long as the sponsors continue to own a significant amount of our equity, they will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. financial risks our level of indebtedness, as well as our failure to comply with covenants under our debt instruments, could adversely affect our business and financial condition. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness, and are permitted to incur a substantial amount of additional indebtedness, including secured debt. our existing debt, together with any incurrence of additional indebtedness, could have important consequences, including, but not limited to: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, research and development, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes; resulting in a downgrade to our credit rating, which could adversely affect our cost of funds, including our commercial paper programs; liquidity; and access to capital markets; restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are not as highly leveraged; 17 making it more difficult for us to make payments on our existing indebtedness; requiring a substantial portion of cash flows from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, payments of dividends, capital expenditures, and future business opportunities; exposing us to risks related to fluctuations in foreign currency, as we earn profits in a variety of currencies around the world and substantially all of our debt is denominated in u.s. dollars; and in the case of any additional indebtedness, exacerbating the risks associated with our substantial financial leverage. in addition, there can be no assurance that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future debt or equity financings will be available to us to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund other needs. as a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. there is no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all. any inability to generate sufficient cash flow or to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. our indebtedness instruments contain customary representations, warranties and covenants, including a financial covenant in our senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the senior credit facility ) to maintain a minimum shareholders' equity (excluding accumulated other comprehensive income/(losses)). the creditors who hold our debt could accelerate amounts due in the event that we default, which could potentially trigger a default or acceleration of the maturity of our other debt. if our operating performance declines, or if we are unable to comply with any covenant, such as our ability to timely prepare and file our periodic reports with the sec, we have needed and may in the future need to obtain waivers from the required creditors under our indebtedness instruments to avoid being in default. during the period from december 29, 2018 to the filing date of this annual report on form 10-k, due to the delays in the preparation of our financial statements for the fiscal year ended december 29, 2018 and the fiscal quarter ended march 30, 2019, we were not in compliance with certain reporting covenants under the senior credit facility. as previously disclosed, we entered into two waiver agreements with respect to the senior credit facility, pursuant to which the lenders, as party to the senior credit facility, and jpmorgan chase bank, n.a., as administrative agent, granted temporary waivers of compliance by us with respect to the requirement to furnish the lenders a copy of the consolidated financial statements for our fiscal year ended december 29, 2018 no later than june 28, 2019 and for our fiscal quarter ended march 30, 2019 no later than july 31, 2019. the filing of this annual report on form 10-k will constitute compliance with the requirement to furnish the lenders a copy of the consolidated financial statements for our fiscal year ended december 29, 2018 no later than june 28, 2019. we also currently expect to file our quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended march 30, 2019 on or before july 31, 2019 in compliance with the requirement to furnish the lenders a copy of the consolidated financial statements for such quarter no later than july 31, 2019. for further information related to the two waiver agreements, see liquidity and capital resources in item 7, management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations . however, we may not be able to secure similar waivers for any future delays in our periodic reports with the sec. furthermore, if we breach any covenants under our indebtedness instruments and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required creditors, or we may not be able to remedy compliance within the terms of any waivers approved by the required creditors. if this occurs, we would be in default under our indebtedness instruments and unable to access our senior credit facility. in addition, certain creditors could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. additional impairments of the carrying amounts of goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. our goodwill balance consists of 20 reporting units, and our indefinite-lived intangible asset balance primarily consists of a number of individual brands. we test our reporting units and brands for impairment annually as of the first day of our second quarter, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit or brand is less than its carrying amount. such events and circumstances could include a sustained decrease in our market capitalization, increased competition or unexpected loss of market share, increased input costs beyond projections (for example due to regulatory or industry changes), disposals of significant brands or components of our business, unexpected business disruptions (for example due to a natural disaster or loss of a customer, supplier, or other significant business relationship), unexpected significant declines in operating results, or significant adverse changes in the markets in which we operate. we test reporting units for impairment by comparing the estimated fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying amount. we test brands for impairment by comparing the estimated fair value of each brand with its carrying amount. if the carrying amount of a reporting unit or brand exceeds its estimated fair value, we record an impairment loss based on the difference between fair value and carrying amount, in the case of reporting units, not to exceed to the associated carrying amount of goodwill. 18 as detailed in note 10, goodwill and intangible assets , in item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , as a result of our 2018 annual impairment test in the second quarter of 2018, we recognized a goodwill impairment loss of $133 million and an indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment loss of $101 million . additionally, as part of our interim impairment test in the third quarter of 2018, we recognized an indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment loss of $215 million and a definite-lived intangible asset impairment loss of $3 million . for the fourth quarter of 2018, in connection with the preparation of our year-end financial statements, we assessed the changes in circumstances that occurred during the quarter to determine if it was more likely than not that the fair values of any reporting units or brands were below their carrying amounts. although our annual impairment test is performed during the second quarter, we perform this qualitative assessment each interim reporting period. while there was no single determinative event or factor, the consideration in totality of several factors that developed during the fourth quarter of 2018 led us to conclude that it was more likely than not that the fair values of certain reporting units and brands were below their carrying amounts. these factors included: (i) a sustained decrease in our share price in november and december of 2018, which reduced our market capitalization below the book value of net assets; (ii) the completion of our fourth quarter results, which were below management's expectations due to several factors such as higher than expected supply chain costs and increased competition; (iii) the development and approval of our 2019 annual operating plan in december 2018, which provided additional insights into expectations and priorities for the coming years, such as lower growth and margin expectations; (iv) the announcement in november 2018 to sell certain assets in our natural cheese portfolio in canada, which changed the composition and use of the remaining assets and brands in the associated reporting unit; (v) fluctuations in foreign exchange rates in certain countries; (vi) increased interest rates in certain locations, including an increase in the united states in december 2018; and (vii) increased and prolonged economic and regulatory uncertainty in the united states and global economies as of the end of december 2018. accordingly, we performed an interim impairment test on these reporting units and brands as of december 29, 2018. as a result of our interim impairment test, we recognized goodwill impairment losses of $6.9 billion and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment losses of $8.6 billion in the fourth quarter of 2018. fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, and market factors. estimating the fair value of individual reporting units and brands requires us to make assumptions and estimates regarding our future plans, as well as industry, economic, and regulatory conditions. these assumptions and estimates include estimated future annual net cash flows, income tax considerations, discount rates, growth rates, royalty rates, contributory asset charges , and other market factors. if current expectations of future growth rates and margins are not met, if market factors outside of our control, such as discount rates, change, or if management's expectations or plans otherwise change, including as a result of the development of our global five-year operating plan, then one or more of our reporting units or brands might become impaired in the future. as detailed in note 10, goodwill and intangible assets , in item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , we recorded impairment losses totaling $15.9 billion for the year ended december 29, 2018. our reporting units and brands that were impaired in 2018 were written down to their respective fair values resulting in zero excess fair value over carrying amount as of their latest 2018 impairment testing dates. accordingly, these and other individual reporting units and brands that have 20% or less excess fair value over carrying amount as of their latest testing date have a heightened risk of future impairments if any assumptions, estimates, or market factors change in the future. reporting units with a heightened risk of future impairments had an aggregate goodwill carrying amount of $29.0 billion at december 29, 2018 and included: u.s. grocery, u.s. refrigerated, canada retail, latin america exports, southeast europe, australia and new zealand, and northeast asia. of the $29.0 billion with a heightened risk of future impairments, $9.3 billion is attributable to reporting units with 0% excess fair value over carrying amount. brands with a heightened risk of future impairments had an aggregate carrying amount of $29.3 billion at december 29, 2018 and included: kraft , philadelphia , oscar mayer , velveeta , miracle whip , planters , a1 , cool whip , stove top , abc , and quero . of the $29.3 billion with a heightened risk of future impairments, $24.0 billion is attributable to brands with 0% excess fair value over carrying amount. although the remaining reporting units and brands have more than 20% excess fair value over carrying amount as of their latest 2018 impairment testing date, these amounts are also associated with the 2013 heinz acquisition and the 2015 merger and are recorded on the balance sheet at their estimated acquisition date fair values. therefore, if any assumptions, estimates, or market factors change in the future, these amounts are also susceptible to impairments , which could negatively affect our operating results or net worth. 19 our net sales and net income may be exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. we derive a substantial portion of our net sales from international operations. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenue, and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the british pound sterling, euro, australian dollar, canadian dollar, new zealand dollar, brazilian real, indonesian rupiah, chinese renminbi, and indian rupee. since our consolidated financial statements are reported in u.s. dollars, fluctuations in exchange rates from period to period will have an impact on our reported results. we have implemented currency hedges intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. however, these hedging strategies may not be successful, and any of our unhedged foreign exchange exposures will continue to be subject to market fluctuations. in addition, in certain circumstances, we may incur costs in one currency related to services or products for which we are paid in a different currency. as a result, factors associated with international operations, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, could significantly affect our results of operations and financial condition. commodity, energy, and other input prices are volatile and could negatively affect our consolidated operating results. we purchase and use large quantities of commodities, including dairy products, meat products, coffee beans, nuts, tomatoes, potatoes, soybean and vegetable oils, sugar and other sweeteners, corn products, wheat products, cucumbers, onions, other fruits and vegetables, spices, and flour to manufacture our products. in addition, we purchase and use significant quantities of resins, metals, cardboard, glass, plastic, paper, fiberboard, and other materials to package our products, and we use other inputs, such as natural gas and water, to operate our facilities. we are also exposed to changes in oil prices, which influence both our packaging and transportation costs. prices for commodities, energy, and other supplies are volatile and can fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict, including global competition for resources, currency fluctuations, severe weather or global climate change, crop failures, or shortages due to plant disease or insect and other pest infestation, consumer, industrial, or investment demand, and changes in governmental regulation and trade, tariffs, alternative energy, including increased demand for biofuels, and agricultural programs. additionally, we may be unable to maintain favorable arrangements with respect to the costs of procuring raw materials, packaging, services, and transporting products, which could result in increased expenses and negatively affect our operations. furthermore, the cost of raw materials and finished products may fluctuate due to movements in cross-currency transaction rates. rising commodity, energy, and other input costs could materially and adversely affect our cost of operations, including the manufacture, transportation, and distribution of our products, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. although we monitor our exposure to commodity prices as an integral part of our overall risk management program, and seek to hedge against input price increases to the extent we deem appropriate, we do not fully hedge against changes in commodity prices, and our hedging strategies may not protect us from increases in specific raw materials costs. for example, hedging our costs for one of our key commodities, dairy products, is difficult because dairy futures markets are not as developed as many other commodities futures markets. continued volatility or sustained increases in the prices of commodities and other supplies we purchase could increase the costs of our products, and our profitability could suffer. moreover, increases in the prices of our products to cover these increased costs may result in lower sales volumes, or we may be constrained from increasing the prices of our products by competitive and consumer pressures. if we are not successful in our hedging activities, or if we are unable to price our products to cover increased costs, then commodity and other input price volatility or increases could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. volatility in the market value of all or a portion of the derivatives we use to manage exposures to fluctuations in commodity prices may cause volatility in our gross profit and net income. we use commodity futures, options, and swaps to economically hedge the price of certain input costs, including dairy products, meat products, coffee beans, sugar, vegetable oils, wheat products, corn products, cocoa products, packaging products, diesel fuel, and natural gas. we recognize gains and losses based on changes in the values of these commodity derivatives. we recognize these gains and losses in cost of products sold in our consolidated statements of income to the extent we utilize the underlying input in our manufacturing process. we recognize these gains and losses in general corporate expenses in our segment operating results until we sell the underlying products, at which time we reclassify the gains and losses to segment operating results. accordingly, changes in the values of our commodity derivatives may cause volatility in our gross profit and net income. our results could be adversely impacted as a result of increased pension, labor, and people-related expenses. inflationary pressures and any shortages in the labor market could increase labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. our labor costs include the cost of providing employee benefits in the united states, canada, and other foreign jurisdictions, including pension, health and welfare, and severance benefits. any declines in market returns could adversely impact the funding of pension plans, the assets of which are invested in a diversified portfolio of equity and fixed-income securities and other investments. additionally, the annual costs of benefits vary with increased costs of health care and the outcome of collectively-bargained wage and benefit agreements. 20 furthermore, we may be subject to increased costs or experience adverse effects to our operating results if we are unable to renew collectively bargained agreements on satisfactory terms. our financial condition and ability to meet the needs of our customers could be materially and adversely affected if strikes or work stoppages and interruptions occur as a result of delayed negotiations with union-represented employees both in and outside of the united states. regulatory risks compliance with laws, regulations, and related interpretations and related legal claims or other regulatory enforcement actions could impact our business, and we face additional risks and uncertainties related to any potential actions resulting from the sec's ongoing investigation, as well as potential additional subpoenas, litigation, and regulatory proceedings. as a large, global food and beverage company, we operate in a highly-regulated environment with constantly-evolving legal and regulatory frameworks. various laws and regulations govern production, storage, distribution, sales, advertising, labeling, including on-pack claims, information or disclosures, marketing, licensing, trade, labor, tax, environmental matters, privacy, as well as health and safety and data protection practices. government authorities regularly change laws and regulations and their interpretations. in particular, brexit could result in a new regulatory regime in the united kingdom that may or may not follow that of the european union, and the creation of new and divergent laws and regulations could increase the cost and complexity of our compliance. in addition, this shift in regime could create a number of legal and accounting complexities with respect to existing relationships, including uncertainty regarding the continuity of contracts entered into by entities in the united kingdom or the european union. our compliance with new or revised laws and regulations, or the interpretation and application of existing laws and regulations, could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations. as a consequence of the legal and regulatory environment in which we operate, we are faced with a heightened risk of legal claims and regulatory enforcement actions. as previously disclosed on february 21, 2019, we received a subpoena in october 2018 from the sec related to our procurement area, specifically the accounting policies, procedures, and internal controls related to our procurement function, including, but not limited to, agreements, side agreements, and changes or modifications to agreements with our suppliers. following the receipt of this subpoena, we, together with external counsel and forensic accountants, and subsequently, under the oversight of the audit committee, conducted an internal investigation into our procurement area and related matters. following our earnings release and investor call on february 21, 2019, when we announced the results of our interim assessment of goodwill and intangible asset impairments, the sec requested additional information related to our financial reporting, internal controls, and disclosures, our assessment of goodwill and intangible asset impairments, and our communications with certain shareholders. it is our understanding that the united states attorney's office for the northern district of illinois also is reviewing this matter, working with the sec and receiving materials from it. after our earnings release, four securities class action lawsuits, one class action lawsuit under the employee retirement income security act ( erisa ), and five stockholder derivative actions were filed against us and certain of our current and former officers, directors, and employees. one of the securities class action lawsuits was voluntarily dismissed without prejudice, while the other matters are still pending. we intend to vigorously defend against these lawsuits. we are unable, at this time, to estimate our potential liability in these matters, but we may be required to pay judgments, settlements, or other penalties and incur other costs and expenses in connection with the securities and erisa class action lawsuits and the stockholder derivative actions. see item 3, legal proceedings , and note 18, commitment and contingencies , in item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , for additional information. furthermore, if the sec commences legal action as a result of the investigation, we could be required to pay significant penalties and become subject to injunctions, cease and desist orders, and other equitable remedies. the sec investigation will not be resolved as a result of the completion of the internal investigation and the filing of this annual report on form 10-k. we can provide no assurances as to the outcome or timing of any governmental or regulatory investigation. we have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant expenses related to legal, accounting, and other professional services in connection with the internal investigation, the sec investigation, and related legal and regulatory matters. these expenses, the delay in timely filing this annual report on form 10-k, the delay in timely filing our quarterly report on form 10-q for the fiscal quarter ended march 30, 2019, and the diversion of the attention of the management team that has occurred, and is expected to continue, has adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, our business, financial condition, and cash flows. as a result of matters associated with the internal investigation related to the sec investigation and various lawsuits, we are exposed to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings, and government enforcement actions and additional subpoenas. any future investigations or additional lawsuits may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 21 we identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. if we are unable to remediate these material weaknesses, or if we experience additional material weaknesses or other deficiencies in the future or otherwise fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately and timely report our financial results, in which case our business may be harmed, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, and the price of our common stock may decline. our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting and for evaluating and reporting on the effectiveness of our system of internal control. our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america ( u.s. gaap ). as a public company, we are required to comply with the sarbanes-oxley act and other rules that govern public companies. in particular, we are required to certify our compliance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act, which requires us to furnish annually a report by management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. in addition, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. in connection with our most recent year-end assessment of internal control over financial reporting, we determined that, as of december 29, 2018, we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting because of a material weakness in our risk assessment process related to designing and maintaining controls sufficient to appropriately respond to changes in our business environment. this material weakness in risk assessment also contributed to material weaknesses arising from (i) supplier contracts and related arrangements, and (ii) goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment testing, and we have taken and are taking certain remedial steps to improve our internal control over financial reporting. for further discussion of the material weaknesses identified and our remedial efforts, see item 9a, controls and procedures . remediation efforts place a significant burden on management and add increased pressure to our financial resources and processes. as a result, we may not be successful in making the improvements necessary to remediate the material weaknesses identified by management, be able to do so in a timely manner, or be able to identify and remediate additional control deficiencies, including material weaknesses, in the future. if we are unable to successfully remediate our existing or any future material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected; our liquidity, our access to capital markets, the perceptions of our creditworthiness, and our ability to complete acquisitions may be adversely affected; we may be unable to maintain or regain compliance with applicable securities laws, the nasdaq stock market llc ( nasdaq ) listing requirements, and the covenants under our debt instruments or derivative arrangements regarding the timely filing of periodic reports; we may be subject to regulatory investigations and penalties; investors may lose confidence in our financial reporting; we may suffer defaults, accelerations, or cross-accelerations under our debt instruments or derivative arrangements to the extent we are unable to obtain waivers from the required creditors or counterparties or are unable to cure any breaches; and our stock price may decline. our failure to prepare and timely file our periodic reports with the sec limits our access to the public markets to raise debt or equity capital, restricts our ability to issue equity securities, including within the kraft heinz savings plan and the kraft heinz union savings plan (collectively, the plan ), and could impact our listing on nasdaq. we did not file our annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 29, 2018 or our quarterly report on form 10-q for the fiscal quarter ended march 30, 2019 within each respective timeframe required by the sec, meaning we have not remained current in our reporting requirements with the sec. this limits our ability to access the public markets to raise debt or equity capital, which could prevent us from pursuing transactions or implementing business strategies that we might otherwise believe are beneficial to our business. we are not currently eligible to use a registration statement on form s-3 that would allow us to continuously incorporate by reference our sec reports into the registration statement, or to use shelf registration statements to conduct offerings, until approximately one year from the date we regain and maintain status as a current filer. if we wish to pursue a public offering now, we would be required to file a registration statement on form s-1 and have it reviewed and declared effective by the sec. doing so would likely take significantly longer than using a registration statement on form s-3 and increase our transaction costs, and the necessity of using a form s-1 for a public offering of registered securities could, to the extent we are not able to conduct offerings using alternative methods, adversely impact our ability to raise capital or complete acquisitions of other companies in a timely manner. 22 in addition, as a result of the failure to remain current in our reporting requirements with the sec, we are not currently eligible to use form s-8 registration statements. as a result, on april 23, 2019, the administrator of the plan issued a notice to plan participants advising participants of a blackout period during which participants are prohibited from acquiring beneficial ownership of additional interests in the kraft heinz company stock fund. if we are not able to become and remain current in our reporting requirements with the sec, it restricts our ability to maintain the kraft heinz company stock fund or issue other equity securities to our employees. as previously disclosed, we also received notices from nasdaq regarding our noncompliance with nasdaq listing rule 5250(c)(1), which requires listed companies to timely file all required periodic financial reports with the sec. we timely submitted our plan to regain compliance, and nasdaq granted the company until september 11, 2019 to regain compliance, subject to our compliance with certain terms outlined in the notice received on may 15, 2019, including filing this annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended december 29, 2018 and filing our quarterly report on form 10-q for the fiscal quarter ended march 30, 2019, which we expect to file as promptly as practicable following the filing of this annual report on form 10-k. if we are not able to file before september 11, 2019, however, our common stock may be subject to delisting by nasdaq. we reached a determination to restate certain of our previously issued consolidated financial statements, which resulted in unanticipated costs and may affect investor confidence and raise reputational issues. as discussed in the explanatory note, in note 2, restatement of previously issued consolidated financial statements , and in note 23, quarterly financial data (unaudited) , in this annual report on form 10-k, we reached a determination to restate our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures for the years ended december 30, 2017 and december 31, 2016 and to restate each of the quarterly and year-to-date periods for the nine months ended september 29, 2018 and for fiscal year 2017, following the identification of misstatements as a result of the internal investigation conducted. we do not believe that the misstatements are quantitatively material to any period presented in our prior financial statements. however, due to the qualitative nature of the matters identified in our internal investigation, including the number of years over which the misconduct occurred and the number of transactions, suppliers, and procurement employees involved, we determined that it would be appropriate to correct the misstatements in our previously issued consolidated financial statements by restating such financial statements. the restatement also included corrections for additional identified out-of-period and uncorrected misstatements in the impacted periods. as a result, we have incurred unanticipated costs for accounting and legal fees in connection with or related to the restatement, and have become subject to a number of additional risks and uncertainties, which may affect investor confidence in the accuracy of our financial disclosures and may raise reputational issues for our business. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also our patents, trade secrets, trade dress, copyrights, and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret, and trade dress laws, as well as licensing agreements, third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements, and policing of third-party misuses of our intellectual property. our failure to develop or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our technology, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business and financial condition. we also license certain intellectual property, most notably trademarks, from third parties. to the extent that we are not able to contract with these third parties on favorable terms or maintain our relationships with these third parties, our rights to use certain intellectual property could be impacted. we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, brands, or products. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. third-party claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain products. 23 changes in tax laws and interpretations could adversely affect our business. we are subject to income and other taxes in the united states and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. our domestic and foreign tax liabilities are dependent on the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed. additionally, the amount of taxes paid is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. a number of factors influence our effective tax rate, including changes in tax laws and treaties as well as the interpretation of existing laws and rules. federal, state, and local governments and administrative bodies within the united states, which represents the majority of our operations, and other foreign jurisdictions have implemented, or are considering, a variety of broad tax, trade, and other regulatory reforms that may impact us. for example, the tax cuts and jobs act (the u.s. tax reform ) enacted on december 22, 2017 resulted in changes in our corporate tax rate, our deferred income taxes, and the taxation of foreign earnings. the comprehensive impact of u.s. tax reform is yet to be determined, and future guidance and interpretations may have adverse or uncertain effects. relatedly, changes in tax laws resulting from the organization for economic co-operation and development's ( oecd ) multi-jurisdictional plan of action to address base erosion and profit sharing ( beps ) could impact our effective tax rate. it is not currently possible to accurately determine the potential comprehensive impact of these or future changes, but these changes could have a material impact on our business and financial condition. significant judgment, knowledge, and experience are required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. our future effective tax rate is impacted by a number of factors including changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in geographic mix of income, increases in expenses not deductible for tax, including impairment of goodwill, and changes in available tax credits. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are also regularly subject to audits by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. economic and political pressures to increase tax revenue in various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes more difficult. the results of an audit or litigation could adversely affect our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. registered securities risks sales of our common stock in the public market could cause volatility in the price of our common stock or cause the share price to fall. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, sales of our common stock by the sponsors, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock, and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. a sustained depression in the market price of our common stock has happened (in november and december 2018, which was a contributing factor to our decision to perform an interim impairment test for certain reporting units and brands in the fourth quarter of 2018, for which we ultimately recorded impairment losses) and could in the future happen, which could also reduce our market capitalization below the book value of net assets, which could increase the likelihood of recognizing goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment losses that could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. kraft heinz, 3g capital, and berkshire hathaway entered into a registration rights agreement requiring us to register for resale under the securities act all registrable shares held by 3g capital and berkshire hathaway, which represents all shares of our common stock held by the sponsors as of the date of the closing of the 2015 merger. as of december 29, 2018, registrable shares represented approximately 49% of all outstanding shares of our common stock. although the registrable shares are subject to certain holdback and suspension periods, the registrable shares are not subject to a lock-up or similar restriction under the registration rights agreement. accordingly, offers and sales of a large number of registrable shares may be made pursuant to an effective registration statement under the securities act in accordance with the terms of the registration rights agreement. sales of our common stock by the sponsors to other persons would likely result in an increase in the number of shares being traded in the public market and may increase the volatility of the price of our common stock. our ability to pay regular dividends to our shareholders and the amounts of any such dividends are subject to the discretion of the board of directors and may be limited by our financial condition, debt agreements, or limitations under delaware law. although it is currently anticipated that we will continue to pay regular quarterly dividends, any such determination to pay dividends and the amounts thereof will be at the discretion of the board of directors and will be dependent on then-existing conditions, including our financial condition, income, legal requirements, including limitations under delaware law, debt agreements, and other factors the board of directors deems relevant. the board of directors has decided, and may in the future decide, in its sole discretion, to change the amount or frequency of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. for these reasons, shareholders will not be able to rely on dividends to receive a return on investment. accordingly, realization of any gain on shares of our common stock may depend on the appreciation of the price of our common stock, which may never occur. 24 volatility of capital markets or macroeconomic factors could adversely affect our business. changes in financial and capital markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity, uncertainty regarding brexit, and interest rate volatility, including as a result of the use or discontinued use of certain benchmark rates such as libor, may increase the cost of financing as well as the risks of refinancing maturing debt. in addition, our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term ratings assigned by rating organizations. a decrease in these ratings could limit our access to capital markets and increase our borrowing costs, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. some of our customers and counterparties are highly leveraged. consolidations in some of the industries in which our customers operate have created larger customers, some of which are highly leveraged and facing increased competition and continued credit market volatility. these factors have caused some customers to be less profitable, increasing our exposure to credit risk. a significant adverse change in the financial and/or credit position of a customer or counterparty could require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that customer or counterparty and could limit our ability to collect receivables. this could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and liquidity. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risks from adverse changes in commodity prices, foreign exchange rates, and interest rates. we monitor and manage these exposures as part of our overall risk management program. our risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects that volatility in these markets may have on our operating results. we maintain risk management policies that principally use derivative financial instruments to reduce significant, unanticipated fluctuations in earnings and cash flows that may arise from variations in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates. we manage market risk by incorporating parameters within our risk management strategy that limit the types of derivative instruments, the derivative strategies we use, and the degree of market risk that we hedge with derivative instruments. see note 3, significant accounting policies , and note 14, financial instruments , in item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , for details of our market risk management policies and the financial instruments used to hedge those exposures. when we use financial instruments, we are exposed to credit risk that a counterparty might fail to fulfill its performance obligations under the terms of our agreement. we minimize our credit risk by entering into transactions with counterparties with investment grade credit ratings, limiting the amount of exposure we have with each counterparty, and monitoring the financial condition of our counterparties. all of our non-exchange traded derivative contracts are governed by an international swaps and derivatives association master agreement. by policy, we do not engage in speculative or leveraged transactions, nor do we hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. 56 effect of hypothetical 10% fluctuation in market prices: the potential gain or loss on the fair value of our outstanding commodity contracts, foreign exchange contracts, and cross-currency swap contracts, assuming a hypothetical 10% fluctuation in commodity prices and foreign currency exchange rates, would have been (in millions): december 29, 2018 december 30, 2017 commodity contracts $ 38 $ 23 foreign currency contracts 100 173 cross-currency swap contracts 402 287 it should be noted that any change in the fair value of our derivative contracts, real or hypothetical, would be significantly offset by an inverse change in the value of the underlying hedged items. in relation to foreign currency contracts, this hypothetical calculation assumes that each exchange rate would change in the same direction relative to the u.s. dollar. our utilization of financial instruments in managing market risk exposures described above is consistent with the prior year. changes in our portfolio of financial instruments are a function of our results of operations, debt repayments and debt issuances, market effects on debt and foreign currency, and our acquisition and divestiture activities. effect of hypothetical 1% fluctuation in libor and cdor: based on our current variable rate debt balance as of december 29, 2018 , a hypothetical 1% increase in libor and cdor would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $19 million. 57risk factors. 5 risk factors. industry risks we operate in a highly competitive industry. the food and beverage industry is highly competitive across all of our product offerings. our principal competitors in these categories are manufacturers, as well as retailers with their own branded and private label products. we compete based on product innovation, price, product quality, nutritional value, service, taste, convenience, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing and distribution, promotional activity, and the ability to identify and satisfy changing consumer preferences. we may need to reduce our prices in response to competitive and customer pressures, including pressures in relation to private label products that are generally sold at lower prices. these pressures have restricted and may in the future continue to restrict our ability to increase prices in response to commodity and other cost increases. failure to effectively assess, timely change and set proper pricing, promotions, or trade incentives may negatively impact the achievement of our objectives. 5 the rapid emergence of new distribution channels, particularly e-commerce, may create consumer price deflation, affecting our retail customer relationships and presenting additional challenges to increasing prices in response to commodity or other cost increases. we may also need to increase or reallocate spending on marketing, retail trade incentives, materials, advertising, and new product or channel innovation to maintain or increase market share. these expenditures are subject to risks, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance of our efforts. if we are unable to compete effectively, our profitability, financial condition, and operating results may decline. our success depends on our ability to correctly predict, identify, and interpret changes in consumer preferences and demand, to offer new products to meet those changes, and to respond to competitive innovation. consumer preferences for food and beverage products change continually and rapidly. our success depends on our ability to predict, identify, and interpret the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to consumer preferences, including with respect to health and wellness. if we do not offer products that appeal to consumers, our sales and market share will decrease, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. we must distinguish between short-term trends and long-term changes in consumer preferences. if we do not accurately predict which shifts in consumer preferences will be long-term, or if we fail to introduce new and improved products to satisfy those preferences, our sales could decline. in addition, because of our varied consumer base, we must offer an array of products that satisfy a broad spectrum of consumer preferences. if we fail to expand our product offerings successfully across product categories, or if we do not rapidly develop products in faster-growing or more profitable categories, demand for our products could decrease, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health implications of certain food and beverage products (including as they relate to obesity or other health concerns) could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of some of our products and marketing programs. we strive to respond to consumer preferences and social expectations, but we may not be successful in our efforts. continued negative perceptions and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. in addition, achieving growth depends on our successful development, introduction, and marketing of innovative new products and line extensions. there are inherent risks associated with new product or packaging introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance or potential impacts on our existing product offerings. we may be required to increase expenditures for new product development. successful innovation depends on our ability to correctly anticipate customer and consumer acceptance, to obtain, protect, and maintain necessary intellectual property rights, and to avoid infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. we must also be able to respond successfully to technological advances by and intellectual property rights of our competitors, and failure to do so could compromise our competitive position and impact our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. changes in the retail landscape or the loss of key retail customers could adversely affect our financial performance. retail customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs, and food distributors in our major markets, may continue to consolidate, resulting in fewer but larger customers for our business across various channels. consolidation also produces larger retail customers that may seek to leverage their positions to improve their profitability by demanding improved efficiency, lower pricing, more favorable terms, increased promotional programs, or specifically-tailored product offerings. in addition, larger retailers have scale to develop supply chains that permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own private label products. retail consolidation and increasing retailer power could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. retail consolidation also increases the risk that adverse changes in our customers' business operations or financial performance may have a corresponding material and adverse effect on us. for example, if our customers cannot access sufficient funds or financing, then they may delay, decrease, or cancel purchases of our products, or delay or fail to pay us for previous purchases, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. in addition, technology-based systems, which give consumers the ability to shop through e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications, are also significantly altering the retail landscape in many of our markets. if we are unable to adjust to developments in these changing landscapes, we may be disadvantaged in key channels and with certain consumers, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. 6 changes in our relationships with significant customers, suppliers, or other business relationships could adversely impact us. we derive significant portions of our sales from certain significant customers (see sales and customers within item 1, business ). there can be no assurance that all of our significant customers will continue to purchase our products in the same mix or quantities or on the same terms as in the past, particularly as increasingly powerful retailers may demand lower pricing and focus on developing their own brands. the loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in sales or a change in the mix of products we sell to a significant customer could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. disputes with significant suppliers, including disputes related to pricing or performance, could adversely affect our ability to supply products to our customers and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. in addition, terminations of relationships with other significant contractual counterparties, including licensors, could adversely affect our portfolio, product sales, financial condition, and operating results. in addition, the financial condition of such customers, suppliers, and other significant contractual counterparties are affected in large part by conditions and events that are beyond our control. significant deteriorations in the financial conditions of significant customers, suppliers, and other business relationships could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. maintaining, extending, and expanding our reputation and brand image are essential to our business success. we have many iconic brands with long-standing consumer recognition across the globe. our success depends on our ability to maintain brand image for our existing products, extend our brands to new platforms, and expand our brand image with new product offerings. we seek to maintain, extend, and expand our brand image through marketing investments, including advertising and consumer promotions, and product innovation. negative perceptions on the role of food and beverage marketing could adversely affect our brand image or lead to stricter regulations and scrutiny of marketing practices. moreover, adverse publicity about legal or regulatory action against us, our quality and safety, our environmental or social impacts, our products becoming unavailable to consumers, or our suppliers and, in some cases, our competitors, could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine our customers' confidence, and reduce demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. furthermore, existing or increased legal or regulatory restrictions on our advertising, consumer promotions, and marketing, or our response to those restrictions, could limit our efforts to maintain, extend, and expand our brands. in addition, our success in maintaining, extending, and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment. we increasingly rely on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. the growing use of social and digital media increases the speed and extent that information, including misinformation, and opinions can be shared. negative posts or comments about us, our brands or our products, or our suppliers and, in some cases, our competitors, on social or digital media, whether or not valid, could seriously damage our brands and reputation. in addition, we might fail to appropriately target our marketing efforts, anticipate consumer preferences, or invest sufficiently in maintaining, extending, and expanding our brand image. if we do not maintain, extend, and expand our reputation or brand image, then our product sales, financial condition, and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. we must leverage our brand value to compete against private label products. in nearly all of our product categories, we compete with branded products as well as private label products, which are typically sold at lower prices. our products must provide higher value and/or quality to our consumers than alternatives, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty. consumers may not buy our products if relative differences in value and/or quality between our products and private label products change in favor of competitors' products or if consumers perceive this type of change. if consumers prefer private label products, then we could lose market share or sales volumes or shift our product mix to lower margin offerings. a change in consumer preferences could also cause us to increase capital, marketing, and other expenditures, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. we may be unable to drive revenue growth in our key product categories, increase our market share, or add products that are in faster-growing and more profitable categories. our future results will depend on our ability to drive revenue growth in our key product categories and growth in the food and beverage industry in the countries in which we operate. our future results will also depend on our ability to enhance our portfolio by adding innovative new products in faster-growing and more profitable categories and our ability to increase market share in our existing product categories. our failure to drive revenue growth, limit market share decreases in our key product categories, or develop innovative products for new and existing categories could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. 7 product recalls or other product liability claims could materially and adversely affect us. selling products for human consumption involves inherent legal and other risks, including product contamination, spoilage, product tampering, allergens, or other adulteration. we have decided and could in the future decide to, and have been or could in the future be required to, recall products due to suspected or confirmed product contamination, adulteration, product mislabeling or misbranding, tampering, undeclared allergens, or other deficiencies. product recalls or market withdrawals could result in significant losses due to their costs, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of the product for a period of time. we could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients, or the food safety system generally. adverse attention about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may damage our reputation, discourage consumers from buying our products, or cause production and delivery disruptions that could negatively impact our net sales and financial condition. we may also suffer losses if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations, or if our products cause injury, illness, or death. in addition, our marketing could face claims of false or deceptive advertising or other criticism. a significant product liability or other legal judgment or a related regulatory enforcement action against us, or a significant product recall, may materially and adversely affect our reputation and profitability. moreover, even if a product liability or fraud claim is unsuccessful, has no merit, or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our products or processes could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. unanticipated business disruptions could adversely affect our ability to provide our products to our customers. we have a complex network of suppliers, owned and leased manufacturing locations, co-manufacturing locations, distribution networks, and information systems that support our ability to consistently provide our products to our customers. factors that are hard to predict or beyond our control, such as weather, raw material shortages, natural disasters, fires or explosions, political unrest, terrorism, generalized labor unrest, or health pandemics, such as the new coronavirus that originated in china, could damage or disrupt our operations or our suppliers', co-manufacturers' or distributors' operations. these disruptions may require additional resources to restore our supply chain or distribution network. if we cannot respond to disruptions in our operations, whether by finding alternative suppliers or replacing capacity at key manufacturing or distribution locations, or if we are unable to quickly repair damage to our information, production, or supply systems, we may be late in delivering, or be unable to deliver, products to our customers and may also be unable to track orders, inventory, receivables, and payables. if that occurs, our customers' confidence in us and long-term demand for our products could decline. any of these events could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. business risks we may not successfully identify, complete, or realize the benefits from strategic acquisitions, alliances, divestitures, joint ventures, or other investments. from time to time, we have evaluated and may continue to evaluate acquisition candidates, alliances, joint ventures, or other investments that may strategically fit our business objectives, and we have divested and may consider divesting businesses that do not meet our strategic objectives or growth or profitability targets. these activities may present financial, managerial, and operational risks including, but not limited to, diversion of management's attention from existing core businesses, difficulties integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, inability to effectively and immediately implement control environment processes across a diverse employee population, adverse effects on existing or acquired customer and supplier business relationships, and potential disputes with buyers, sellers, or partners. activities in such areas are regulated by numerous antitrust and competition laws in the united states, canada, the european union, and other jurisdictions, and we may be required to obtain the approval of these transactions by competition authorities, as well as to satisfy other legal requirements. to the extent we undertake acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures, investments, or other developments outside our core regions or in new categories, we may face additional risks related to such developments. for example, risks related to foreign operations include compliance with u.s. laws affecting operations outside of the united states, such as the fcpa, currency rate fluctuations, compliance with foreign regulations and laws, including tax laws, and exposure to politically and economically volatile developing markets. any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. to the extent we undertake divestitures, we may face additional risks related to such activity. for example, risks related to our ability to find appropriate buyers, to execute transactions on favorable terms, to separate divested businesses from our remaining operations, and to effectively manage any transitional service arrangements. any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. 8 we may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits from prior or future streamlining actions to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and improve our competitiveness. we have implemented a number of cost savings initiatives, including our multi-year program announced following the 2015 merger, that we believe are important to position our business for future success and growth. we have evaluated and continue to evaluate changes to our organizational structure to enable us to reduce costs, simplify or improve processes, and improve our competitiveness. our future success may depend upon our ability to realize the benefits of these or other cost savings initiatives. in addition, certain of our initiatives may lead to increased costs in other aspects of our business such as increased conversion, outsourcing, or distribution costs. we must accurately predict costs and be efficient in executing any plans to achieve cost savings and operate efficiently in the highly competitive food and beverage industry, particularly in an environment of increased competitive activity. to capitalize on our efforts, we must carefully evaluate investments in our business, and execute in those areas with the most potential return on investment. if we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits from any cost-saving efforts, we could be cost disadvantaged in the marketplace, and our competitiveness, production, profitability, financial condition, and operating results could be adversely affected. we may not be able to successfully execute our strategic initiatives. we plan to continue to conduct strategic initiatives in various markets. consumer demands, behaviors, tastes and purchasing trends may differ in these markets and, as a result, our sales may not be successful or meet expectations, or the margins on those sales may be less than currently anticipated. we may also face difficulties integrating new business operations with our current sourcing, distribution, information technology systems, and other operations. any of these challenges could hinder our success in new markets or new distribution channels. we may also face difficulties divesting business operations with minimal impact to the retained businesses. there can be no assurance that we will successfully complete any planned strategic initiatives, that any new business will be profitable or meet our expectations, or that any divestiture will be completed without disruption, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our international operations subject us to additional risks and costs and may cause our profitability to decline. we are a global company with sales and operations in numerous countries within developed and emerging markets. approximately 29% of our 2019 net sales were generated outside of the united states. as a result, we are subject to risks inherent in global operations. these risks, which can vary substantially by market, are described in many of the risk factors discussed in this section and also include: compliance with u.s. laws affecting operations outside of the united states, including anti-bribery laws such as the fcpa; changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws or their interpretations, or tax audit implications; the imposition of increased or new tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, or similar restrictions on our sales or imports, trade agreements, regulations, taxes, or policies that might negatively affect our sales or costs; currency devaluations or fluctuations in currency values; compliance with antitrust and competition laws, data privacy laws, and a variety of other local, national, and multi-national regulations and laws in multiple jurisdictions; discriminatory or conflicting fiscal policies in or across foreign jurisdictions; changes in capital controls, including currency exchange controls, government currency policies, or other limits on our ability to import raw materials or finished product into various countries or repatriate cash from outside the united states; challenges associated with cross-border product distribution; changes in local regulations and laws, the uncertainty of enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions, and foreign ownership restrictions and the potential for nationalization or expropriation of property or other resources; risks and costs associated with political and economic instability, corruption, anti-american sentiment, and social and ethnic unrest in the countries in which we operate; the risks of operating in developing or emerging markets in which there are significant uncertainties regarding the interpretation, application, and enforceability of laws and regulations and the enforceability of contract rights and intellectual property rights; risks arising from the significant and rapid fluctuations in currency exchange markets and the decisions made and positions taken to hedge such volatility; changing labor conditions and difficulties in staffing our operations; greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles; and 9 design, implementation, and use of effective control environment processes across our diverse operations and employee base. in addition, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption, expropriation, and other economic or political uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations or customer demand. slow economic growth or high unemployment in the markets in which we operate could constrain consumer spending, and declining consumer purchasing power could adversely impact our profitability. all of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased sales, and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations. our performance may be adversely affected by economic and political conditions in the united states and in various other nations where we do business. our performance has been in the past and may continue in the future to be impacted by economic and political conditions in the united states and in other nations where we do business. economic and financial uncertainties in our international markets, including uncertainties surrounding the legal and regulatory effects of brexit in the transition period and beyond, changes to major international trade arrangements (e.g., the united states-mexico-canada agreement), and the imposition of tariffs by certain foreign governments, including china and canada, could negatively impact our operations and sales. though the united kingdom formally withdrew from the european union on january 31, 2020, the uncertainties around the impacts of brexit remain during the transition period and while a new trade agreement is negotiated. as a result, we continue to evaluate the risks associated with the withdrawal, including the potential for supply chain disruptions and foreign currency volatility. other factors impacting our operations in the united states and in international locations where we do business include export and import restrictions, currency exchange rates, currency devaluation, cash repatriation restrictions, recessionary conditions, foreign ownership restrictions, nationalization, the impact of hyperinflationary environments, terrorist acts, and political unrest. such factors in either domestic or foreign jurisdictions, and our responses to them, could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. for further information on venezuela, see note 15, venezuela - foreign currency and inflation, in item 8, financial statements and supplementary data . we rely on our management team and other key personnel and may be unable to hire or retain key personnel or a highly skilled and diverse global workforce. we depend on the skills, working relationships, and continued services of key personnel, including our experienced management team. in addition, our ability to achieve our operating goals depends on our ability to identify, hire, train, and retain qualified individuals. we compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented personnel, and we may lose key personnel or fail to attract, train, and retain other talented personnel and a diverse global workforce with the skills and in the locations we need to operate and grow our business. unplanned turnover, failure to attract and develop personnel with key emerging capabilities such as e-commerce and digital marketing skills, or failure to develop adequate succession plans for leadership positions, including the chief executive officer position, could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitiveness. changes in immigration laws and policies could also make it more difficult for us to recruit or relocate skilled employees. any such loss, failure, or limitation could adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. we are significantly dependent on information technology, and we may be unable to protect our information systems against service interruption, misappropriation of data, or breaches of security. we rely on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic and financial information, to manage a variety of business processes and activities, and to comply with regulatory, legal, and tax requirements. we also depend on our information technology infrastructure for digital marketing activities and for electronic communications among our locations, personnel, customers, and suppliers. these information technology systems, some of which are managed by third parties, may be susceptible to damage, invasions, disruptions, or shutdowns due to hardware failures, computer viruses, hacker attacks and other cybersecurity risks, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophic events or other factors. if our information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption, or shutdown, by unintentional or malicious actions of employees and contractors or by cyberattacks, and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, we could experience business disruptions, reputational damage, transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the leakage of confidential information, and the loss of customers and sales, causing our product sales, financial condition, and operating results to be adversely affected and the reporting of our financial results to be delayed. in addition, if we are unable to prevent security breaches or disclosure of non-public information, we may suffer financial and reputational damage, litigation or remediation costs, fines, or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our partners, customers, consumers, or suppliers. 10 misuse, leakage, or falsification of information could result in violations of data privacy laws and regulations, damage to our reputation and credibility, loss of opportunities to acquire or divest of businesses or brands, and loss of ability to commercialize products developed through research and development efforts and, therefore, could have a negative impact on net sales. in addition, we may suffer financial and reputational damage because of lost or misappropriated confidential information belonging to us, our current or former employees, or to our suppliers or consumers, and may become subject to legal action and increased regulatory oversight. we could also be required to spend significant financial and other resources to remedy the damage caused by a security breach or to repair or replace networks and information systems. we are also subject to various laws and regulations that are continuously evolving and developing regarding privacy, data protection, and data security, including those related to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer, and security of personal data. such laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation and application, may vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, which can result in inconsistent or conflicting requirements. the european union's general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which became effective in may 2018, adds a broad array of requirements with respect to personal data, including the public disclosure of significant data breaches, and imposes substantial penalties for non-compliance. the california consumer privacy act ( ccpa ), which became effective on january 1, 2020, among other things, imposes additional requirements with respect to disclosure and deletion of personal information of california residents. the ccpa provides civil penalties for violations, as well as a private right of action for data breaches. gdpr, ccpa, and other privacy and data protection laws may increase our costs of compliance and risks of non-compliance, which could result in substantial penalties. our results of operations could be affected by natural events in the locations in which we or our customers, suppliers, distributors, or regulators operate. we have been and may in the future be impacted by severe weather and other geological events, including hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, or tsunamis that could disrupt our operations or the operations of our customers, suppliers, distributors, or regulators. natural disasters or other disruptions at any of our facilities or our suppliers' or distributors' facilities may impair or delay the delivery of our products. influenza or other pandemics, such as the new coronavirus that originated in china, could disrupt production of our products, reduce demand for certain of our products, or disrupt the marketplace in the foodservice or retail environment with consequent material adverse effects on our results of operations. while we insure against many of these events and certain business interruption risks and have policies and procedures to manage business continuity planning, we cannot provide any assurance that such insurance will compensate us for any losses incurred as a result of natural or other disasters or that our business continuity plans will effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner. to the extent we are unable to, or cannot, financially mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or effectively manage such events if they occur, particularly when a product is sourced from a single location, there could be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations, and additional resources could be required to restore our supply chain. the sponsors have substantial control over us and may have conflicts of interest with us in the future. as of december 28, 2019, the sponsors own approximately 47% of our common stock. three of our current 11 directors had been directors of heinz prior to the closing of the 2015 merger and remained directors of kraft heinz pursuant to the merger agreement. in addition, the board elected joao m. castro-neves, a partner of 3g capital, one of the sponsors, effective june 12, 2019. furthermore, paulo basilio, our chief financial officer, is a partner of 3g capital. as a result, the sponsors have the potential to exercise influence over management and have substantial control over decisions of our board of directors as well as over any action requiring the approval of the holders of our common stock, including adopting any amendments to our charter, electing directors, and approving mergers or sales of substantially all of our capital stock or our assets. in addition, to the extent that the sponsors were to collectively hold a majority of our common stock, they together would have the power to take shareholder action by written consent to adopt amendments to our charter or take other actions, such as corporate transactions, that require the vote of holders of a majority of our outstanding common stock. the directors designated by the sponsors may have significant authority to effect decisions affecting our capital structure, including the issuance of additional capital stock, the incurrence of additional indebtedness, the implementation of stock repurchase programs, and the decision of whether to declare dividends and the amount of any such dividends. additionally, the sponsors are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. the sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. so long as the sponsors continue to own a significant amount of our equity, they will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. 11 financial risks our level of indebtedness, as well as our ability to comply with covenants under our debt instruments, could adversely affect our business and financial condition. we have a substantial amount of indebtedness, and are permitted to incur a substantial amount of additional indebtedness, including secured debt. our existing debt, together with any incurrence of additional indebtedness, could have important consequences, including, but not limited to: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, research and development, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes; resulting in a downgrade to our credit rating, which could adversely affect our cost of funds, including our commercial paper programs; liquidity; and access to capital markets; restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are not as highly leveraged; making it more difficult for us to make payments on our existing indebtedness; requiring a substantial portion of cash flows from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, payments of dividends, capital expenditures, and future business opportunities; exposing us to risks related to fluctuations in foreign currency, as we earn profits in a variety of currencies around the world and the majority of our debt is denominated in u.s. dollars; and in the case of any additional indebtedness, exacerbating the risks associated with our substantial financial leverage. in addition, there can be no assurance that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future debt or equity financings will be available to us to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund other needs. as a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. there is no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all. any inability to generate sufficient cash flow or to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. our indebtedness instruments contain customary representations, warranties and covenants, including a financial covenant in our senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the senior credit facility ) to maintain a minimum shareholders' equity (excluding accumulated other comprehensive income/(losses)). the creditors who hold our debt could accelerate amounts due in the event that we default, which could potentially trigger a default or acceleration of the maturity of our other debt. if our operating performance declines, or if we are unable to comply with any covenant, such as our ability to timely prepare and file our periodic reports with the sec, we have in the past and may in the future need to obtain waivers from the required creditors under our indebtedness instruments to avoid being in default. if we breach any covenants under our indebtedness instruments and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required creditors, or we may not be able to remedy compliance within the terms of any waivers approved by the required creditors. if this occurs, we would be in default under our indebtedness instruments and unable to access our senior credit facility. in addition, certain creditors could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. 12 additional impairments of the carrying amounts of goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. we maintain 19 reporting units, 11 of which comprise our goodwill balance. our indefinite-lived intangible asset balance primarily consists of a number of individual brands . we test our reporting units and brands for impairment annually as of the first day of our second quarter, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit or brand is less than its carrying amount. such events and circumstances could include a sustained decrease in our market capitalization, increased competition or unexpected loss of market share, increased input costs beyond projections (for example due to regulatory or industry changes), disposals of significant brands or components of our business, unexpected business disruptions (for example due to a natural disaster or loss of a customer, supplier, or other significant business relationship), unexpected significant declines in operating results, significant adverse changes in the markets in which we operate, or changes in management strategy. we test reporting units for impairment by comparing the estimated fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying amount. we test brands for impairment by comparing the estimated fair value of each brand with its carrying amount. if the carrying amount of a reporting unit or brand exceeds its estimated fair value, we record an impairment loss based on the difference between fair value and carrying amount, in the case of reporting units, not to exceed the associated carrying amount of goodwill. fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, and market factors. estimating the fair value of individual reporting units and brands requires us to make assumptions and estimates regarding our future plans, as well as industry, economic, and regulatory conditions. these assumptions and estimates include estimated future annual net cash flows, income tax considerations, discount rates, growth rates, royalty rates, contributory asset charges , and other market factors. if current expectations of future growth rates and margins are not met, if market factors outside of our control, such as discount rates, change, or if management's expectations or plans otherwise change, including as a result of updates to our global five-year operating plan, then one or more of our reporting units or brands might become impaired in the future , which could negatively affect our operating results or net worth. we are currently actively reviewing the enterprise strategy for the company. as part of this strategic review, we expect to develop updates to the five-year operating plan in 2020, which could impact the allocation of investments among reporting units and brands and impact growth expectations and fair value estimates. additionally, as a result of this strategic review process, we could decide to divest certain non-strategic assets. as a result, the ongoing development of the enterprise strategy and underlying detailed business plans could lead to the impairment of one or more of our reporting units or brands in the future . as a result of our annual and interim impairment tests, we recognized goodwill impairment losses of $7.0 billion and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment losses of $8.9 billion in 2018, and goodwill impairment losses of $1.2 billion and indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment losses of $687 million in 2019. our reporting units and brands that were impaired in 2018 and 2019 were written down to their respective fair values resulting in zero excess fair value over carrying amount as of the applicable impairment test dates. accordingly, these and other individual reporting units and brands that have 20% or less excess fair value over carrying amount as of their latest 2019 impairment testing date have a heightened risk of future impairments if any assumptions, estimates, or market factors change in the future. reporting units with 10% or less fair value over carrying amount had an aggregate goodwill carrying amount of $32.4 billion as of their latest 2019 impairment testing date and included u.s. grocery, u.s. refrigerated, u.s. foodservice, canada retail, canada foodservice, latin america exports, and emea east. reporting units with between 10-20% fair value over carrying amount had an aggregate goodwill carrying amount of $676 million as of their latest 2019 impairment testing date and included continental europe and northeast asia. the aggregate goodwill carrying amount of reporting units with fair value over carrying amount between 20-50% was $2.4 billion and there were no reporting units with fair value over carrying amount in excess of 50% as of their latest 2019 impairment testing date. brands with 10% or less fair value over carrying amount had an aggregate carrying amount after impairment of $26.2 billion as of their latest 2019 impairment testing date and included: kraft , philadelphia , velveeta , lunchables , miracle whip , planters , maxwell house , cool whip , and abc . brands with between 10-20% fair value over carrying amount had an aggregate carrying amount of $3.7 billion as of their latest 2019 impairment testing date and included oscar mayer , jet puffed , wattie's , and quero . the aggregate carrying amount of brands with fair value over carrying amount between 20-50% was $4.2 billion as of their latest 2019 impairment testing date. although the remaining brands have more than 50% excess fair value over carrying amount as of their latest 2019 impairment testing date, these amounts are also associated with the 2013 heinz acquisition and the 2015 merger and are recorded on the balance sheet at their estimated acquisition date fair values. therefore, if any estimates, market factors, or assumptions, including those related to our enterprise strategy or business plans, change in the future, these amounts are also susceptible to impairments. 13 our net sales and net income may be exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. we derive a substantial portion of our net sales from international operations. we hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenue, and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the u.s. dollar, primarily the british pound sterling, euro, australian dollar, canadian dollar, new zealand dollar, brazilian real, indonesian rupiah, chinese renminbi, and indian rupee. since our consolidated financial statements are reported in u.s. dollars, fluctuations in exchange rates from period to period will have an impact on our reported results. we have implemented currency hedges intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. however, these hedging strategies may not be successful, and any of our unhedged foreign exchange exposures will continue to be subject to market fluctuations. in addition, in certain circumstances, we may incur costs in one currency related to services or products for which we are paid in a different currency. as a result, factors associated with international operations, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, could significantly affect our results of operations and financial condition. commodity, energy, and other input prices are volatile and could negatively affect our consolidated operating results. we purchase and use large quantities of commodities, including dairy products, meat products, coffee beans, nuts, tomatoes, potatoes, soybean and vegetable oils, sugar and other sweeteners, corn products, wheat products, cucumbers, onions, other fruits and vegetables, spices, cocoa products, and flour to manufacture our products. in addition, we purchase and use significant quantities of resins, metals, cardboard, glass, plastic, paper, fiberboard, and other materials to package our products, and we use other inputs, such as natural gas and water, to operate our facilities. we are also exposed to changes in oil prices, which influence both our packaging and transportation costs. prices for commodities, energy, and other supplies are volatile and can fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict, including global competition for resources, currency fluctuations, severe weather or global climate change, crop failures, or shortages due to plant disease or insect and other pest infestation, consumer, industrial, or investment demand, and changes in governmental regulation and trade, tariffs, alternative energy, including increased demand for biofuels, and agricultural programs. additionally, we may be unable to maintain favorable arrangements with respect to the costs of procuring raw materials, packaging, services, and transporting products, which could result in increased expenses and negatively affect our operations. furthermore, the cost of raw materials and finished products may fluctuate due to movements in cross-currency transaction rates. rising commodity, energy, and other input costs could materially and adversely affect our cost of operations, including the manufacture, transportation, and distribution of our products, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. although we monitor our exposure to commodity prices as an integral part of our overall risk management program, and seek to hedge against input price increases to the extent we deem appropriate, we do not fully hedge against changes in commodity prices, and our hedging strategies may not protect us from increases in specific raw materials costs. for example, hedging our costs for one of our key commodities, dairy products, is difficult because dairy futures markets are not as developed as many other commodities futures markets. continued volatility or sustained increases in the prices of commodities and other supplies we purchase could increase the costs of our products, and our profitability could suffer. moreover, increases in the prices of our products to cover these increased costs may result in lower sales volumes, or we may be constrained from increasing the prices of our products by competitive and consumer pressures. if we are not successful in our hedging activities, or if we are unable to price our products to cover increased costs, then commodity and other input price volatility or increases could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. volatility in the market value of all or a portion of the derivatives we use to manage exposures to fluctuations in commodity prices may cause volatility in our gross profit and net income. we use commodity futures, options, and swaps to economically hedge the price of certain input costs, including dairy products, meat products, coffee beans, sugar, vegetable oils, wheat products, corn products, cocoa products, packaging products, diesel fuel, and natural gas. we recognize gains and losses based on changes in the values of these commodity derivatives. we recognize these gains and losses in cost of products sold in our consolidated statements of income to the extent we utilize the underlying input in our manufacturing process. we recognize these gains and losses in general corporate expenses in our segment operating results until we sell the underlying products, at which time we reclassify the gains and losses to segment operating results. accordingly, changes in the values of our commodity derivatives may cause volatility in our gross profit and net income. our results could be adversely impacted as a result of increased pension, labor, and people-related expenses. inflationary pressures and any shortages in the labor market could increase labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. our labor costs include the cost of providing employee benefits in the united states, canada, and other foreign jurisdictions, including pension, health and welfare, and severance benefits. any declines in market returns could adversely impact the funding of pension plans, the assets of which are invested in a diversified portfolio of equity and fixed-income securities and other investments. additionally, the annual costs of benefits vary with increased costs of health care and the outcome of collectively-bargained wage and benefit agreements. 14 furthermore, we may be subject to increased costs or experience adverse effects to our operating results if we are unable to renew collectively bargained agreements on satisfactory terms. our financial condition and ability to meet the needs of our customers could be materially and adversely affected if strikes or work stoppages and interruptions occur as a result of delayed negotiations with union-represented employees both in and outside of the united states. regulatory risks compliance with laws, regulations, and related interpretations and related legal claims or other regulatory enforcement actions could impact our business, and we face additional risks and uncertainties related to any potential actions resulting from the sec's ongoing investigation, as well as potential additional subpoenas, litigation, and regulatory proceedings. as a large, global food and beverage company, we operate in a highly-regulated environment with constantly-evolving legal and regulatory frameworks. various laws and regulations govern production, storage, distribution, sales, advertising, labeling, including on-pack claims, information or disclosures, marketing, licensing, trade, labor, tax, environmental matters, privacy, as well as health and safety and data protection practices. government authorities regularly change laws and regulations and their interpretations. in particular, brexit could result in a new regulatory regime in the united kingdom that may or may not follow that of the european union, and the creation of new and divergent laws and regulations could increase the cost and complexity of our compliance. in addition, this shift in regime could create a number of legal and accounting complexities with respect to existing relationships, including uncertainty regarding the continuity of contracts entered into by entities in the united kingdom or the european union. our compliance with new or revised laws and regulations, or the interpretation and application of existing laws and regulations, could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations. as a consequence of the legal and regulatory environment in which we operate, we are faced with a heightened risk of legal claims and regulatory enforcement actions. as previously disclosed on february 21, 2019, we received a subpoena in october 2018 from the sec related to our procurement area, specifically the accounting policies, procedures, and internal controls related to our procurement function, including, but not limited to, agreements, side agreements, and changes or modifications to agreements with our suppliers. following the receipt of this subpoena, we, together with external counsel and forensic accountants, and subsequently, under the oversight of the audit committee, conducted an internal investigation into our procurement area and related matters. the sec has issued additional subpoenas seeking information related to our financial reporting, internal controls, disclosures, our assessment of goodwill and intangible asset impairments, our communications with certain shareholders, and other procurement-related information and materials in connection with its investigation. the united states attorney's office for the northern district of illinois ( usao ) is also reviewing this matter . we and certain of our current and former officers and directors are currently defendants in a consolidated securities class action lawsuit, a class action lawsuit brought under the employee retirement income security act ( erisa ), a consolidated stockholder derivative action pending in federal court, and eight stockholder derivative actions pending in the delaware court of chancery. we are cooperating with the sec and usao, and intend to vigorously defend the civil lawsuits. we are unable, at this time, to estimate our potential liability in these matters. in connection with the securities and erisa class action lawsuits and the stockholder derivative actions, we may be required to pay judgments, settlements, or other penalties and incur other costs and expenses. see item 3, legal proceedings , and note 17, commitments and contingencies , in item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , for additional information. in connection with the sec and usao investigations, we could be required to pay significant civil or criminal penalties and become subject to injunctions, cease and desist orders, and other equitable remedies. the sec and usao investigations have not been resolved as of the filing of this annual report on form 10-k. we can provide no assurances as to the outcome or timing of any governmental or regulatory investigation. we have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant expenses related to legal, accounting, and other professional services in connection with the internal investigation, the sec investigation, and related legal and regulatory matters. these expenses have adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, our business, financial condition, and cash flows. as a result of matters associated with the internal investigation related to the sec investigation and various lawsuits, we are exposed to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings, and government enforcement actions and additional subpoenas. any future investigations or additional lawsuits may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 15 we identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. if we are unable to remediate these material weaknesses, or if we experience additional material weaknesses or other deficiencies in the future or otherwise fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately and timely report our financial results, in which case our business may be harmed, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, and the price of our common stock may decline. our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting and for evaluating and reporting on the effectiveness of our system of internal control. our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america ( u.s. gaap ). as a public company, we are required to comply with the sarbanes-oxley act and other rules that govern public companies. in particular, we are required to certify our compliance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act, which requires us to furnish annually a report by management on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. in addition, our independent registered public accounting firm is required to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. consistent with the prior year and in connection with our 2019 year-end assessment of internal control over financial reporting, we determined that, as of december 28, 2019, we did not maintain effective internal control over financial reporting because of a material weakness in our risk assessment process related to designing and maintaining controls sufficient to appropriately respond to changes in our business environment. this material weakness in risk assessment also contributed to a material weakness arising from supplier contracts and related arrangements, and we have taken and are taking certain remedial steps to improve our internal control over financial reporting. for further discussion of the material weaknesses identified and our remedial efforts, see item 9a, controls and procedures . remediation efforts place a significant burden on management and add increased pressure to our financial resources and processes. as a result, we may not be successful in making the improvements necessary to remediate the material weaknesses identified by management, be able to do so in a timely manner, or be able to identify and remediate additional control deficiencies, including material weaknesses, in the future. if we are unable to successfully remediate our existing or any future material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timing of our financial reporting may be adversely affected; our liquidity, our access to capital markets, the perceptions of our creditworthiness, and our ability to complete acquisitions may be adversely affected; we may be unable to maintain compliance with applicable securities laws, the nasdaq stock market llc ( nasdaq ) listing requirements, and the covenants under our debt instruments or derivative arrangements regarding the timely filing of periodic reports; we may be subject to regulatory investigations and penalties; investors may lose confidence in our financial reporting; we may suffer defaults, accelerations, or cross-accelerations under our debt instruments or derivative arrangements to the extent we are unable to obtain waivers from the required creditors or counterparties or are unable to cure any breaches; and our stock price may decline. our failure to prepare and timely file our periodic reports with the sec limits our access to the public markets to raise debt or equity capital. we did not file our annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 29, 2018 or our quarterly report on form 10-q for the fiscal quarter ended march 30, 2019 within each respective timeframe required by the sec, meaning we did not remain current in our reporting requirements with the sec. as such, we are not currently eligible to use a registration statement on form s-3 that would allow us to continuously incorporate by reference our sec reports into the registration statement, or to use shelf registration statements to conduct offerings, until we have maintained our status as a current filer for approximately one year. this limits our ability to access the public markets to raise debt or equity capital, which could prevent us from pursuing transactions or implementing business strategies that we might otherwise believe are beneficial to our business. if we wish to pursue a public offering now, we would be required to file a registration statement on form s-1 and have it reviewed and declared effective by the sec. doing so would likely take significantly longer than using a registration statement on form s-3 and increase our transaction costs, and the necessity of using a form s-1 for a public offering of registered securities could, to the extent we are not able to conduct offerings using alternative methods, adversely impact our ability to raise capital or complete acquisitions of other companies in a timely manner. 16 we restated certain of our previously issued consolidated financial statements, which resulted in unanticipated costs and may affect investor confidence and raise reputational issues. as discussed in the explanatory note, in note 2, restatement of previously issued consolidated financial statements , and in note 23, quarterly financial data (unaudited) , in our annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 29, 2018, we restated our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures for the years ended december 30, 2017 and december 31, 2016 and restated each of the quarterly and year-to-date periods for the nine months ended september 29, 2018 and for fiscal year 2017, following the identification of misstatements as a result of the internal investigation conducted. we do not believe that the misstatements were quantitatively material to any period presented in our prior financial statements. however, due to the qualitative nature of the matters identified in our internal investigation, including the number of years over which the misconduct occurred and the number of transactions, suppliers, and procurement employees involved, we determined that it would be appropriate to correct the misstatements in our previously issued consolidated financial statements by restating such financial statements. the restatement also included corrections for additional identified out-of-period and uncorrected misstatements in the impacted periods. as a result, we incurred unanticipated costs for accounting and legal fees in connection with or related to the restatement, and have become subject to a number of additional risks and uncertainties, which may affect investor confidence in the accuracy of our financial disclosures and may raise reputational issues for our business. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. we consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also our patents, trade secrets, trade dress, copyrights, and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret, and trade dress laws, as well as licensing agreements, third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements, and policing of third-party misuses of our intellectual property. our failure to develop or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our technology, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business and financial condition. we also license certain intellectual property, most notably trademarks, from third parties. to the extent that we are not able to contract with these third parties on favorable terms or maintain our relationships with these third parties, our rights to use certain intellectual property could be impacted. we may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, brands, or products. any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. third-party claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. we also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain products. changes in tax laws and interpretations could adversely affect our business. we are subject to income and other taxes in the united states and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. our domestic and foreign tax liabilities are dependent on the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed. additionally, the amount of taxes paid is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. a number of factors influence our effective tax rate, including changes in tax laws and treaties as well as the interpretation of existing laws and rules. federal, state, and local governments and administrative bodies within the united states, which represents the majority of our operations, and other foreign jurisdictions have implemented, or are considering, a variety of broad tax, trade, and other regulatory reforms that may impact us. for example, the tax cuts and jobs act (the u.s. tax reform ) enacted on december 22, 2017 resulted in changes in our corporate tax rate, our deferred income taxes, and the taxation of foreign earnings. relatedly, changes in tax laws resulting from the organization for economic co-operation and development's ( oecd ) multi-jurisdictional plan of action to address base erosion and profit sharing ( beps ) could impact our effective tax rate. it is not currently possible to accurately determine the potential comprehensive impact of these or future changes, but these changes could have a material impact on our business and financial condition. 17 significant judgment, knowledge, and experience are required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. our future effective tax rate is impacted by a number of factors including changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in geographic mix of income, increases in expenses not deductible for tax, including impairment of goodwill, and changes in available tax credits. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are also regularly subject to audits by tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. economic and political pressures to increase tax revenue in various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes more difficult. the results of an audit or litigation could adversely affect our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. registered securities risks sales of our common stock in the public market could cause volatility in the price of our common stock or cause the share price to fall. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, sales of our common stock by the sponsors, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock, and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. a sustained depression in the market price of our common stock has happened (which was a contributing factor to our decision to perform interim impairment tests for certain reporting units and brands in 2018 and 2019, for which we ultimately recorded impairment losses) and could in the future happen, which could also reduce our market capitalization below the book value of net assets, which could increase the likelihood of recognizing goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment losses that could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. kraft heinz, 3g capital, and berkshire hathaway entered into a registration rights agreement requiring us to register for resale under the securities act all registrable shares held by 3g capital and berkshire hathaway, which represents all shares of our common stock held by the sponsors as of the date of the closing of the 2015 merger. as of december 28, 2019, registrable shares represented approximately 47% of all outstanding shares of our common stock. although the registrable shares are subject to certain holdback and suspension periods, the registrable shares are not subject to a lock-up or similar restriction under the registration rights agreement. accordingly, offers and sales of a large number of registrable shares may be made pursuant to an effective registration statement under the securities act in accordance with the terms of the registration rights agreement. sales of our common stock by the sponsors to other persons would likely result in an increase in the number of shares being traded in the public market and may increase the volatility of the price of our common stock. our ability to pay regular dividends to our shareholders and the amounts of any such dividends are subject to the discretion of the board of directors and may be limited by our financial condition, debt agreements, or limitations under delaware law. although it is currently anticipated that we will continue to pay regular quarterly dividends, any such determination to pay dividends and the amounts thereof will be at the discretion of the board of directors and will be dependent on then-existing conditions, including our financial condition, income, legal requirements, including limitations under delaware law, debt agreements, and other factors the board of directors deems relevant. the board of directors has decided, and may in the future decide, in its sole discretion, to change the amount or frequency of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. for these reasons, shareholders will not be able to rely on dividends to receive a return on investment. accordingly, realization of any gain on shares of our common stock may depend on the appreciation of the price of our common stock, which may never occur. volatility of capital markets or macroeconomic factors could adversely affect our business. changes in financial and capital markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity, uncertainty regarding brexit in the transition period and beyond, and interest rate volatility, may increase the cost of financing as well as the risks of refinancing maturing debt. our u.s. dollar variable rate debt uses libor as a benchmark for determining interest rates and the financial conduct authority in the united kingdom intends to phase out libor by the end of 2021. while we do not expect that the transition from libor, including any legal or regulatory changes made in response to its future phase out, or the risks related to its discontinuance will have a material effect on our financing costs, the impact is uncertain at this time. some of our customers and counterparties are highly leveraged. consolidations in some of the industries in which our customers operate have created larger customers, some of which are highly leveraged and facing increased competition and continued credit market volatility. these factors have caused some customers to be less profitable, increasing our exposure to credit risk. a significant adverse change in the financial and/or credit position of a customer or counterparty could require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that customer or counterparty and could limit our ability to collect receivables. this could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and liquidity. 18 a downgrade in our credit rating could adversely impact interest costs or access to future borrowings. our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term credit ratings assigned by rating organizations. a decrease in these credit ratings could limit our access to capital markets and increase our borrowing costs, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. on february 14, 2020, moody's investor services, inc. ( moody's ) affirmed our long-term credit rating of baa3 with a negative outlook and fitch ratings ( fitch ) and s&amp;p global ratings ( s&amp;p ) downgraded our long-term credit rating from bbb- to bb+ with a stable outlook from fitch and a negative outlook from s&amp;p. the downgrades by fitch and s&amp;p reduce our senior debt below investment grade, potentially resulting in higher borrowing costs on future financings and potentially limiting access to our commercial paper program and other sources of funding which may result in us having to use more expensive sources of liquidity, such as our senior credit facility. these downgrades do not constitute a default or event of default under our debt instruments. however, as two ratings agencies have downgraded our long-term credit rating to below investment grade status, we are subject to certain financial covenants in our 4.875% second lien senior secured notes due february 15, 2025 (the 2025 notes ). quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we are exposed to market risks from adverse changes in commodity prices, foreign exchange rates, and interest rates. we monitor and manage these exposures as part of our overall risk management program. our risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce the potentially adverse effects that volatility in these markets may have on our operating results. we maintain risk management policies that principally use derivative financial instruments to reduce significant, unanticipated fluctuations in earnings and cash flows that may arise from variations in commodity prices, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates. we manage market risk by incorporating parameters within our risk management strategy that limit the types of derivative instruments, the derivative strategies we use, and the degree of market risk that we hedge with derivative instruments. see note 2, significant accounting policies , and note 13, financial instruments , in item 8, financial statements and supplementary data , for details of our market risk management policies and the financial instruments used to hedge those exposures. when we use financial instruments, we are exposed to credit risk that a counterparty might fail to fulfill its performance obligations under the terms of our agreement. we minimize our credit risk by entering into transactions with counterparties with investment grade credit ratings, limiting the amount of exposure we have with each counterparty, and monitoring the financial condition of our counterparties. we maintain a policy of requiring that all significant, non-exchange traded derivative contracts are governed by an international swaps and derivatives association master agreement. by policy, we do not engage in speculative or leveraged transactions, nor do we hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. effect of hypothetical 10% fluctuation in market prices: the potential gain or loss on the fair value of our outstanding commodity contracts, foreign exchange contracts, and cross-currency swap contracts, assuming a hypothetical 10% fluctuation in commodity prices and foreign currency exchange rates, would have been (in millions): december 28, 2019 december 29, 2018 commodity contracts $ 43 $ 38 foreign currency contracts 73 100 cross-currency swap contracts 412 402 it should be noted that any change in the fair value of our derivative contracts, real or hypothetical, would be significantly offset by an inverse change in the value of the underlying hedged items. in relation to foreign currency contracts, this hypothetical calculation assumes that each exchange rate would change in the same direction relative to the u.s. dollar. our utilization of financial instruments in managing market risk exposures described above is consistent with the prior year. changes in our portfolio of financial instruments are a function of our results of operations, debt repayments and debt issuances, market effects on debt and foreign currency, and our acquisition and divestiture activities. effect of hypothetical 1% fluctuation in libor and cdor: based on our current variable rate debt balance as of december 28, 2019 , a hypothetical 1% increase in libor and cdor would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $12 million . the financial conduct authority in the united kingdom intends to phase out libor by the end of 2021. given our current variable rate debt outstanding, we do not anticipate a significant impact to our annual interest expense as a result of the transition. 41