risk factors risk factors we operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. you should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below together with the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k, in evaluating our company. the occurrence of any of the following risks may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. risks relating to our business the potential loss or delay of our large contracts or of multiple contracts could adversely affect our results. most of our customers can terminate our contracts upon 30 to 90 days notice. our customers may delay, terminate or reduce the scope of our contracts for a variety of reasons beyond our control, including but not limited to: decisions to forego or terminate a particular trial; lack of available financing, budgetary limits or changing priorities; actions by regulatory authorities; production problems resulting in shortages of the drug being tested; failure of products being tested to satisfy safety requirements or efficacy criteria; unexpected or undesired clinical results for products; insufficient patient enrollment in a trial; insufficient investigator recruitment; shift of business to a competitor or internal resources; product withdrawal following market launch; or shut down of manufacturing facilities. as a result, contract terminations, delays and alterations are a regular part of our business. in the event of termination, our contracts often provide for fees for winding down the project, but these fees may not be sufficient for us to maintain our margins, and termination may result in lower resource utilization rates. in addition, we may not realize the full benefits of our backlog of contractually committed services if our customers cancel, delay or reduce their commitments under our contracts with them, which may occur if, among other things, a customer decides to shift its business to a competitor or revoke our status as a preferred provider. thus, the loss or delay of a large contract or the loss or delay of multiple contracts could adversely affect our service revenues and profitability. we believe the risk of loss or delay of multiple contracts potentially has greater effect where we are party to broader partnering arrangements with global biopharmaceutical companies. our financial results may be adversely affected if we underprice our contracts, overrun our cost estimates or fail to receive approval for or experience delays in documenting change orders. most of our contracts are either fee for service contracts or fixed-fee contracts. our past financial results have been, and our future financial results may be, adversely impacted if we initially underprice our contracts or otherwise overrun our cost estimates and are unable to successfully negotiate a change order. change orders typically occur when the scope of work we perform needs to be modified from that originally contemplated by our contract with the customer. modifications can occur, for example, when there is a change in a key trial assumption or parameter or a significant change in timing. where we are not successful in converting out-of-scope work into change orders under our current contracts, we bear the cost of the additional work. such underpricing, significant cost overruns or delay in documentation of change orders could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 21 table of contents the relationship of backlog to revenues varies over time. backlog represents future service revenues from work not yet completed or performed under signed contracts, letters of intent and, in some cases, pre-contract commitments that are supported by written communications. once work begins on a project, revenue is recognized over the duration of the project. projects may be terminated or delayed by the customer or delayed by regulatory authorities for reasons beyond our control. to the extent projects are delayed, the timing of our revenue could be affected. in the event that a customer cancels a contract, we typically would be entitled to receive payment for all services performed up to the cancellation date and subsequent customer-authorized services related to terminating the canceled project. typically, however, we have no contractual right to the full amount of the revenue reflected in our backlog in the event of a contract cancellation. the duration of the projects included in our backlog, and the related revenue recognition, range from a few weeks to many years. our backlog may not be indicative of our future revenues, and we may not realize all the anticipated future revenue reflected in our backlog. a number of factors may affect backlog, including: the size, complexity and duration of the projects; the cancellation or delay of projects; and change in the scope of work during the course of a project. our backlog at december 31, 2013 was $9,855 million compared to backlog of $8,704 million at december 31, 2012. although an increase in backlog will generally result in an increase in revenues to be recognized over time (depending on the level of cancellations), an increase in backlog at a particular point in time does not necessarily correspond directly to an increase in revenues during a particular period. the extent to which contracts in backlog will result in revenue depends on many factors, including but not limited to delivery against projected schedules, the need for scope changes (change orders), contract cancellations and the nature, duration, size, complexity and phase of the contracts, each of which factors can vary significantly from time to time. our $9,855 million of backlog at december 31, 2013 included approximately $6,342 million of backlog that we do not expect to generate revenue in 2014 as compared to our $8,704 million of backlog at december 31, 2012, which included approximately $5,601 million of backlog that we did not expect to generate revenue in 2013. the rate at which our backlog converts to revenue may vary over time for a variety of reasons. the revenue recognition on larger, more global projects could be slower than on smaller, less global projects for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to an extended period of negotiation between the time the project is awarded to us and the actual execution of the contract, as well as an increased timeframe for obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals. additionally, delayed projects will remain in backlog, unless otherwise canceled by the customer, and will not generate revenue at the rate originally expected. thus, the relationship of backlog to realized revenues may vary over time. our business depends on the continued effectiveness and availability of our information systems, including the information systems we use to provide our services to our customers, and failures of these systems may materially limit our operations. due to the global nature of our business and our reliance on information systems to provide our services, we intend to increase our use of web-enabled and other integrated information systems in delivering our services. we also provide access to similar information systems to certain of our customers in connection with the services we provide them. as the breadth and complexity of our information systems continue to grow, we will increasingly be exposed to the risks inherent in the development, integration and ongoing operation of evolving information systems, including: disruption, impairment or failure of data centers, telecommunications facilities or other key infrastructure platforms; security breaches of, cyber attacks on and other failures or malfunctions in our critical application systems or their associated hardware; and excessive costs, excessive delays or other deficiencies in systems development and deployment. 22 table of contents the materialization of any of these risks may impede the processing of data, the delivery of databases and services, and the day-to-day management of our business and could result in the corruption, loss or unauthorized disclosure of proprietary, confidential or other data. while we have disaster recovery plans in place, they might not adequately protect us in the event of a system failure. despite any precautions we take, damage from fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, break-ins and similar events at our various computer facilities could result in interruptions in the flow of data to our servers and from our servers to our customers. corruption or loss of data may result in the need to repeat a trial at no cost to the customer, but at significant cost to us, the termination of a contract or damage to our reputation. additionally, significant delays in system enhancements or inadequate performance of new or upgraded systems once completed could damage our reputation and harm our business. finally, long-term disruptions in the infrastructure caused by events such as natural disasters, the outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities and acts of terrorism, particularly involving cities in which we have offices, could adversely affect our businesses. although we carry property and business interruption insurance, our coverage might not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential data, whether through systems failure or employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers. similarly, we have been and expect that we will continue to be subject to attempts to gain unauthorized access to or through our information systems or those we develop for our customers, whether by our employees or third parties, including a cyber attack by computer programmers and hackers who may develop and deploy viruses, worms or other malicious software programs. to date these attacks have not had a material impact on our operations or financial results. nonetheless, successful attacks in the future could result in negative publicity, significant remediation costs, legal liability and damage to our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, our liability insurance might not be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to security breaches, cyber attacks and other related breaches. we may be adversely affected by customer or therapeutic concentration. although we did not have any customer that represented 10% or more of our service revenues in 2013, 2012 or 2011, we derive the majority of our revenues from a number of large customers. if any large customer decreases or terminates its relationship with us, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. additionally, conducting multiple clinical trials for different customers in a single therapeutic class involving drugs with the same or similar chemical action has in the past and may in the future adversely affect our business if some or all of the trials are canceled because of new scientific information or regulatory judgments that affect the drugs as a class or if industry consolidation results in the rationalization of drug development pipelines. similarly, marketing and selling drugs for different biopharmaceutical companies with similar chemical actions subjects us to risk if new scientific information or regulatory judgment prejudices the drugs as a class, which may lead to compelled or voluntary prescription limitations or withdrawal of some or all of such drugs from the market. our business is subject to international economic, political and other risks that could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. we have significant operations in foreign countries that may require complex arrangements to deliver services on global contracts for our customers. additionally, we have established operations in locations remote from our most developed business centers. as a result, we are subject to heightened risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including the following: conducting a single trial across multiple countries is complex, and issues in one country, such as a failure to comply with local regulations or restrictions, may affect the progress of the trial in the other countries, for example, by limiting the amount of data necessary for a trial to proceed, resulting in delays or potential cancellation of contracts, which in turn may result in loss of revenue; foreign countries could enact legislation or impose regulations or other restrictions, including unfavorable labor regulations or tax policies, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business in or expatriate profits from those countries; foreign countries are expanding or may expand their regulatory framework with respect to patient informed consent, protection and compensation in clinical trials, which could delay or inhibit our ability to conduct trials in such jurisdictions; the regulatory or judicial authorities of foreign countries may not enforce legal rights and recognize business procedures in a manner in which we are accustomed or would reasonably expect; changes in political and economic conditions may lead to changes in the business environment in which we operate, as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates; 23 table of contents potential violations of local laws or anti-bribery laws, such as the united states foreign corrupt practices act, may cause difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; customers in foreign jurisdictions may have longer payment cycles, and it may be more difficult to collect receivables in foreign jurisdictions; and natural disasters, pandemics or international conflict, including terrorist acts, could interrupt our services, endanger our personnel or cause project delays or loss of trial materials or results. these risks and uncertainties could negatively impact our ability to, among other things, perform large, global projects for our customers. furthermore, our ability to deal with these issues could be affected by applicable united states laws and the need to protect our assets. any such risks could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. if we are unable to successfully develop and market new services or enter new markets, our growth, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. a key element of our growth strategy is the successful development and marketing of new services or entering new markets that complement or expand our existing business. as we develop new services or enter new markets, including services targeted at participants in the broader healthcare industry, we may not have or adequately build the competencies necessary to perform such services satisfactorily, may not receive market acceptance for such services or may face increased competition. if we are unable to succeed in developing new services, entering new markets or attracting a customer base for our new services or in new markets, we will be unable to implement this element of our growth strategy, and our future business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. upgrading the information systems that support our operating processes and evolving the technology platform for our services pose risks to our business. continued efficient operation of our business requires that we implement standardized global business processes and evolve our information systems to enable this implementation. we have continued to undertake significant programs to optimize business processes with respect to our services. our inability to effectively manage the implementation and adapt to new processes designed into these new or upgraded systems in a timely and cost-effective manner may result in disruption to our business and negatively affect our operations. we have entered into agreements with certain vendors to provide systems development and integration services that develop or license to us the it platform for programs to optimize our business processes. if such vendors fail to perform as required or if there are substantial delays in developing, implementing and updating the it platform, our customer delivery may be impaired, and we may have to make substantial further investments, internally or with third parties, to achieve our objectives. additionally, our progress may be limited by parties with existing or claimed patents who seek to enjoin us from using preferred technology or seek license payments from us. meeting our objectives is dependent on a number of factors which may not take place as we anticipate, including obtaining adequate technology-enabled services, creating it-enabled services that our customers will find desirable and implementing our business model with respect to these services. also, increased it-related expenditures may negatively impact our profitability. if we fail to perform our services in accordance with contractual requirements, regulatory standards and ethical considerations, we could be subject to significant costs or liability and our reputation could be harmed. we contract with biopharmaceutical companies to perform a wide range of services to assist them in bringing new drugs to market. our services include monitoring clinical trials, data and laboratory analysis, electronic data capture, patient recruitment and other related services. such services are complex and subject to contractual requirements, regulatory standards and ethical considerations. for example, we must adhere to regulatory requirements such as the fda and current gcp, glp and gmp requirements. if we fail to perform our services in accordance with these requirements, regulatory agencies may take action against us for failure to comply with applicable regulations governing clinical trials or sales and marketing practices. such actions may include sanctions, such as injunctions or failure of such regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of products, delay, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, product seizures or recalls, operational restrictions, civil or criminal penalties or prosecutions, damages or fines. customers may also bring claims against us for breach of our contractual obligations and patients in the clinical trials and patients taking drugs approved on the basis of those trials may bring personal injury claims against us for negligence. any such action could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and reputation. 24 table of contents such consequences could arise if, among other things, the following occur: improper performance of our services. the performance of clinical development services is complex and time-consuming. for example, we may make mistakes in conducting a clinical trial that could negatively impact or obviate the usefulness of the trial or cause the results of the trial to be reported improperly. if the trial results are compromised, we could be subject to significant costs or liability, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to perform our services. as examples: non-compliance generally could result in the termination of ongoing clinical trials or sales and marketing projects or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities; compromise of data from a particular trial, such as failure to verify that informed consent was obtained from patients, could require us to repeat the trial under the terms of our contract at no further cost to our customer, but at a substantial cost to us; and breach of a contractual term could result in liability for damages or termination of the contract. large clinical trials can cost hundreds of millions of dollars, and while we endeavor to contractually limit our exposure to such risks, improper performance of our services could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, damage our reputation and result in the cancellation of current contracts by or failure to obtain future contracts from the affected customer or other customers. interactive response technology malfunction. cenduit llc, our joint venture with thermo fisher scientific inc., or cenduit, provides interactive response technology, or irt, services. irt enables the randomization of patients in a given clinical trial to different treatment arms and regulates the supply of an investigational drug, all by means of interactive voice response and interactive web response systems. if irt malfunctions and, as a result, patients are incorrectly randomized or supplied with an incorrect drug during the course of the clinical trials, then any such event would create a risk of liability to cenduit, which could have an adverse impact on the value of our investment in cenduit, and could also result in a contractual claim against us for failure to properly perform the clinical trial. furthermore, negative publicity associated with an irt malfunction could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. additionally, errors in randomization may require us to repeat the trial at no further cost to our customer, but at a substantial cost to us. investigation of customers. from time to time, one or more of our customers are audited or investigated by regulatory authorities or enforcement agencies with respect to regulatory compliance of their clinical trials, programs or the marketing and sale of their drugs. in these situations, we have often provided services to our customers with respect to the clinical trials, programs or activities being audited or investigated, and we are called upon to respond to requests for information by the authorities and agencies. there is a risk that either our customers or regulatory authorities could claim that we performed our services improperly or that we are responsible for clinical trial or program compliance. if our customers or regulatory authorities make such claims against us and prove them, we could be subject to damages, fines or penalties. in addition, negative publicity regarding regulatory compliance of our customers clinical trials, programs or drugs could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. insufficient customer funding to complete a clinical trial. as noted above, clinical trials can cost hundreds of millions of dollars. there is a risk that we may initiate a clinical trial for a customer, and then the customer becomes unwilling or unable to fund the completion of the trial. in such a situation, notwithstanding the customer ability or willingness to pay for or otherwise facilitate the completion of the trial, we may be ethically bound to complete or wind down the trial at our own expense. our research and development services could subject us to potential liability that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our business involves the testing of new drugs on patients in clinical trials and, if marketing approval is granted, the availability of these drugs to be prescribed to patients. our involvement in the clinical trials and development process creates a risk of liability for personal injury to or death of patients, particularly those with life-threatening illnesses, resulting from adverse reactions to the drugs administered during testing or after product launch, respectively. for example, we have from time to time been sued and may be sued in the future by individuals alleging personal injury due to their participation in clinical trials and seeking damages from us under a variety of legal theories. although we maintain the types and amounts of insurance customary in the industries and countries in which we operate, if we are required to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with any personal injury claim that is outside the scope of indemnification agreements we have with our customers, if any indemnification agreement is not performed in accordance with its terms or if our liability exceeds the amount of any applicable indemnification limits or available insurance coverage, our financial condition, results of operations and reputation could be materially and adversely affected. currently, we maintain professional liability insurance, including products liability for completed operations coverage, with annual aggregate limits in excess of $50.0 million. in the future, we may not be able to get adequate insurance for these types of risks at reasonable rates. 25 table of contents we also contract with physicians to serve as investigators in conducting clinical trials. if the investigators commit errors or make omissions during a clinical trial that result in harm to trial patients or after a clinical trial to a patient using the drug after it has received regulatory approval, claims for personal injury or products liability damages may result. additionally, if the investigators engage in fraudulent behavior, trial data may be compromised, which may require us to repeat the clinical trial or subject us to liability. we do not believe we are legally responsible for the medical care rendered by such third-party investigators, and we would vigorously defend any claims brought against us. however, it is possible we could be found liable for claims with respect to the actions of third-party investigators. some of our services involve direct interaction with clinical trial subjects or volunteers and operation of phase i clinical facilities, which could create potential liability that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we operate two facilities where phase i clinical trials are conducted, which ordinarily involve testing an investigational drug on a limited number of healthy individuals, typically 20 to 80 persons, to determine such drug basic safety. failure to operate such a facility in accordance with applicable regulations could result in that facility being shut down, which could disrupt our operations. additionally, we face risks associated with adverse events resulting from the administration of such drugs to healthy volunteers and the professional malpractice of medical care providers. occasionally, physicians employed at our phase i clinical facilities act as principal investigators in later-phase trials at those same facilities. we also directly employ nurses and other trained employees who assist in implementing the testing involved in our clinical trials, such as drawing blood from healthy volunteers. any professional malpractice or negligence by such investigators, nurses or other employees could potentially result in liability to us in the event of personal injury to or death of a healthy volunteer in clinical trials. this liability, particularly if it were to exceed the limits of any indemnification agreements and insurance coverage we may have, may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. our commercial services could result in liability to us if a drug causes harm to a patient. while we are generally indemnified and insured against such risks, we may still suffer financial losses. when we market drugs under contract for a biopharmaceutical company, we could suffer liability for harm allegedly caused by those drugs, either as a result of a lawsuit against the biopharmaceutical company to which we are joined, a lawsuit naming us or any of our subsidiaries or an action launched by a regulatory body. while we are indemnified by the biopharmaceutical company for the action of the drugs we market on its behalf, and we carry insurance to cover harm caused by our negligence in performing services, it is possible that we could nonetheless incur financial losses, regulatory penalties or both. in particular, any claim could result in potential liability for us if the claim is outside the scope of the indemnification agreement we have with the biopharmaceutical company, the biopharmaceutical company does not abide by the indemnification agreement as required or the liability exceeds the amount of any applicable indemnification limits or available insurance coverage. such a finding could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. furthermore, negative publicity associated with harm caused by drugs we helped to market could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. our insurance may not cover all of our indemnification obligations and other liabilities associated with our operations. we maintain insurance designed to provide coverage for ordinary risks associated with our operations and our ordinary indemnification obligations with annual aggregate limits in excess of $50.0 million. the coverage provided by such insurance may not be adequate for all claims we may make or may be contested by our insurance carriers. if our insurance is not adequate or available to pay liabilities associated with our operations, or if we are unable to purchase adequate insurance at reasonable rates in the future, our profitability may be adversely impacted. if we are unable to attract suitable investigators and patients for our clinical trials, our clinical development business might suffer. the recruitment of investigators and patients for clinical trials is essential to our business. investigators are typically located at hospitals, clinics or other sites and supervise the administration of the investigational drug to patients during the course of a clinical trial. patients generally include people from the communities in which the clinical trials are conducted. our clinical development business could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract suitable and willing investigators or patients for clinical trials on a consistent basis. for example, if we are unable to engage investigators to conduct clinical trials as planned or enroll sufficient patients in clinical trials, we might need to expend additional funds to obtain access to resources or else be compelled to delay or modify the clinical trial plans, which may result in additional costs to us. 26 table of contents if we lose the services of key personnel or are unable to recruit experienced personnel, our business could be adversely affected. our success substantially depends on the collective performance, contributions and expertise of our senior management team and other key personnel including qualified management, professional, scientific and technical operating staff and qualified sales representatives for our contract sales services. there is significant competition for qualified personnel, particularly those with higher educational degrees, such as a medical degree, a ph.d. or an equivalent degree, in the biopharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical services industries. the departure of any key executive, or our inability to continue to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel or replace any departed personnel in a timely fashion, may impact our ability to grow our business and compete effectively in our industry and may negatively affect our ability to meet financial and operational goals. exchange rate fluctuations may affect our results of operations and financial condition. in 2013, approximately 37.8% of our service revenues were denominated in currencies other than the united states dollar. because a large portion of our service revenues and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the united states dollar and our financial statements are reported in united states dollars, changes in foreign currency exchange rates could significantly affect our results of operations and financial condition. exchange rate fluctuations between local currencies and the united states dollar create risk in several ways, including: foreign currency translation risk. the revenue and expenses of our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies and translated into united states dollars for financial reporting purposes. accordingly, exchange rate fluctuations will affect the translation of foreign results into united states dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated results. foreign currency transaction risk. we are subject to foreign currency transaction risk for fluctuations in exchange rates during the period of time between the consummation and cash settlement of a transaction. we earn revenue from our service contracts over a period of several months and, in some cases, over several years. accordingly, exchange rate fluctuations during this period may affect our profitability with respect to such contracts. we may limit these risks through exchange rate fluctuation provisions stated in our service contracts, or we may hedge our transaction risk with foreign currency exchange contracts or options. we have not, however, hedged 100% of our foreign currency transaction risk, and we may experience fluctuations in financial results from our operations outside the united states and foreign currency transaction risk associated with our service contracts. disruptions in the credit and capital markets and unfavorable general economic conditions could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. disruptions in the credit and capital markets could have negative effects on our business that may be difficult to predict or anticipate, including the ability of our customers, vendors, contractors and financing sources to meet their contractual obligations. although we are unable to quantify the impact it has had on us, we are aware of a limited number of instances during the past several years where cancellations, changes in scope and failure to pay timely were attributable, at least in part, to difficulty in our customers ability to obtain financing. in the future such actions by our customers could, if they involve a significant amount of business with us, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our effective income tax rate may fluctuate, which may adversely affect our operations, earnings and earnings per share. our effective income tax rate is influenced by our projected profitability in the various taxing jurisdictions in which we operate. changes in the distribution of profits and losses among taxing jurisdictions may have a significant impact on our effective income tax rate, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our net income and earnings per share. factors that may affect our effective income tax rate include, but are not limited to: the requirement to exclude from our quarterly worldwide effective income tax calculations losses in jurisdictions where no income tax benefit can be recognized; actual and projected full year pre-tax income; the repatriation of foreign earnings to the united states; changes in tax laws in various taxing jurisdictions; audits by taxing authorities; and the establishment of valuation allowances against deferred income tax assets if we determined that it is more likely than not that future income tax benefits will not be realized. 27 table of contents these changes may cause fluctuations in our effective income tax rate that could adversely affect our results of operations and cause fluctuations in our earnings and earnings per share. we have only a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights, and these rights are important to our success. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to develop, use and protect our proprietary methodologies, analytics, systems, technologies and other intellectual property. existing laws of the various countries in which we provide services or solutions offer only limited protection of our intellectual property rights, and the protection in some countries may be very limited. we rely upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, nondisclosure, invention assignment and other contractual arrangements, and patent, copyright and trademark laws, to protect our intellectual property rights. these laws are subject to change at any time and certain agreements may not be fully enforceable, which could further restrict our ability to protect our innovations. our intellectual property rights may not prevent competitors from independently developing services similar to or duplicative of ours. further, the steps we take in this regard might not be adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation of our intellectual property by competitors, former employees or other third parties, and we might not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. enforcing our rights might also require considerable time, money and oversight, and we may not be successful in enforcing our rights. depending on the circumstances, we might need to grant a specific customer greater rights in intellectual property developed in connection with a contract than we otherwise generally do. in certain situations, we might forego all rights to the use of intellectual property we create, which would limit our ability to reuse that intellectual property for other customers. any limitation on our ability to provide a service or solution could cause us to lose revenue-generating opportunities and require us to incur additional expenses to develop or license new or modified solutions for future projects. our relationships with existing or potential customers who are in competition with each other may adversely impact the degree to which other customers or potential customers use our services, which may adversely affect our results of operations. the biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive, with biopharmaceutical companies each seeking to persuade payers, providers and patients that their drug therapies are better and more cost-effective than competing therapies marketed or being developed by competing firms. in addition to the adverse competitive interests that biopharmaceutical companies have with each other, biopharmaceutical companies also have adverse interests with respect to drug selection and reimbursement with other participants in the healthcare industry, including payers and providers. biopharmaceutical companies also compete to be first to market with new drug therapies. we regularly provide services to biopharmaceutical companies who compete with each other, and we sometimes provide services or funding to such customers regarding competing drugs in development. our existing or future relationships with our biopharmaceutical customers may therefore deter other biopharmaceutical customers from using our services or may result in our customers seeking to place limits on our ability to serve other biopharmaceutical industry participants. in addition, our further expansion into the broader healthcare market may adversely impact our relationships with biopharmaceutical customers, and such customers may elect not to use our services, reduce the scope of services that we provide to them or seek to place restrictions on our ability to serve customers in the broader healthcare market with interests that are adverse to theirs. any loss of customers or reductions in the level of revenues from a customer could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, business and prospects. if we are unable to successfully identify, acquire and integrate existing businesses, services and technologies, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. we anticipate that a portion of our future growth may come from acquiring existing businesses, services or technologies. the success of any acquisition will depend upon, among other things, our ability to effectively integrate acquired personnel, operations, products and technologies into our business and to retain the key personnel and customers of our acquired businesses. in addition, we may be unable to identify suitable acquisition opportunities or obtain any necessary financing on commercially acceptable terms. we may also spend time and money investigating and negotiating with potential acquisition targets but not complete the transaction. any future acquisition could involve other risks, including, among others, the assumption of additional liabilities and expenses, difficulties and expenses in connection with integrating the acquired companies and achieving the expected benefits, issuances of potentially dilutive securities or interest-bearing debt, loss of key employees of the acquired companies, transaction costs, diversion of management attention from other business concerns and, with respect to the acquisition of foreign companies, the inability to overcome differences in foreign business practices, language and customs. our failure to identify potential acquisitions, complete targeted acquisitions and integrate completed acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 28 table of contents investments in our customers businesses or drugs and our related commercial rights strategies could have a negative impact on our financial performance. we may enter into arrangements with our customers or other drug companies in which we take on some of the risk of the potential success or failure of their businesses or drugs, including making strategic investments in our customers or other drug companies, providing financing to customers or other drug companies or acquiring an interest in the revenues from customers drugs or in entities developing a limited number of drugs. as of december 31, 2013, we had approximately $42.0 million of such arrangements, and we were also committed to invest an additional $34.2 million in the novaquest pharma opportunities fund iii, l.p., or the fund, a private equity fund that seeks to enter into similar risk-based arrangements. our financial results would be adversely affected if these investments or the underlying drugs result in losses or do not achieve the level of success that we anticipate and/or our return or payment from the drug investment or financing is less than our direct and indirect costs with respect to these arrangements. our results of operations may be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our goodwill and intangible assets. as of december 31, 2013, we had goodwill and net intangible assets of $707.7 million, which constituted approximately 23.1% of our total assets at the end of this period. we assess the realizability of our indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill annually and conduct an interim evaluation whenever events or changes in circumstances, such as operating losses or a significant decline in earnings associated with the acquired business or asset, indicate that these assets may be impaired. our ability to realize the value of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets will depend on the future cash flows of the businesses we have acquired, which in turn depend in part on how well we have integrated these businesses into our own business. if we are not able to realize the value of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. such impairment charges could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we face risks arising from the restructuring of our operations. from time to time, we have adopted restructuring plans to improve our operating efficiency through various means such as reduction of overcapacity, elimination of non-billable support roles or other realignment of resources. for example, in february 2013, our board approved a restructuring plan of up to $15.0 million that is expected to result in a reduction of approximately 400 positions. we recognized approximately $14.2 million of total restructuring costs related to this plan in 2013. in may 2012, our board approved a restructuring plan of up to $20.0 million that resulted in the reduction of approximately 280 positions, primarily in europe. restructuring presents significant potential risks of events occurring that could adversely affect us, including a decrease in employee morale, the failure to achieve targeted cost savings and the failure to meet operational targets and customer requirements due to the loss of employees and any work stoppages that might occur. we depend on third parties for critical support services. we depend on third parties for support services vital to our business. such support services include, but are not limited to, third-party transportation providers, suppliers of drugs for patients participating in clinical trials, suppliers of kits for use in our central laboratory business, suppliers of reagents for use in our testing equipment and providers of maintenance contracts for our equipment. the failure of any of these third parties to adequately provide the critical support services could have a material adverse effect on our business. risks relating to our industry the biopharmaceutical services industry is highly competitive. the biopharmaceutical services industry is highly competitive. we often compete for business with other biopharmaceutical services companies, internal discovery departments, development departments, and sales and marketing departments within our customers, some of which could be considered large biopharmaceutical services companies in their own right with greater resources than ours. we also compete with universities and teaching hospitals. if we do not compete successfully, our business will suffer. the industry is highly fragmented, with numerous smaller specialized companies and a handful of full-service companies with global capabilities similar to ours. increased competition has led to price and other forms of competition, such as acceptance of less favorable contract terms, that could adversely affect our operating results. as a result of competitive pressures, in recent years our industry has experienced consolidation and going private transactions. this trend is likely to produce more competition from the resulting larger companies, and ones without the cost pressures of being public, for both customers and acquisition candidates. in addition, there are few barriers to entry for smaller specialized companies considering entering the industry. because of their size and focus, these companies might compete effectively against larger companies such as us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. 29 table of contents outsourcing trends in the biopharmaceutical industry and changes in aggregate spending and r&amp;d budgets could adversely affect our operating results and growth rate. economic factors and industry trends that affect biopharmaceutical companies affect our business. biopharmaceutical companies continue to seek long-term strategic collaborations with global cros with favorable pricing terms. competition for these collaborations is intense and we may decide to forego an opportunity or we may not be selected, in which case a competitor may enter into the collaboration and our business with the customer, if any, may be limited. in addition, if the biopharmaceutical industry reduces its outsourcing of clinical trials and sales and marketing projects or such outsourcing fails to grow at projected rates, our operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. we may also be negatively impacted by consolidation and other factors in the biopharmaceutical industry, which may slow decision making by our customers or result in the delay or cancellation of clinical trials. our commercial services may be affected by reductions in new drug launches and increases in the number of drugs losing patent protection. all of these events could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. we may be affected by healthcare reform and potential additional reforms. in march 2010, the united states congress enacted healthcare reform legislation intended to expand, over time, health insurance coverage and impose health industry cost containment measures. this legislation may significantly impact the biopharmaceutical industry. in addition, numerous government bodies are considering or have adopted various healthcare reforms and may undertake, or are in the process of undertaking, efforts to control growing healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and biopharmaceutical companies. we are uncertain as to the effects of these recent reforms on our business and are unable to predict what legislative proposals, if any, will be adopted in the future. if regulatory cost containment efforts limit the profitability of new drugs, our customers may reduce their r&amp;d spending or promotional, marketing and sales expenditures, which could reduce the business they outsource to us. similarly, if regulatory requirements are relaxed or simplified drug approval procedures are adopted, the demand for our services could decrease. government bodies may also adopt healthcare legislation or regulations that are more burdensome than existing regulations. for example, product safety concerns and recommendations by the drug safety oversight board could change the regulatory environment for drug products, and new or heightened regulatory requirements may increase our expenses or limit our ability to offer some of our services. additionally, new or heightened regulatory requirements may have a negative impact on the ability of our customers to conduct industry-sponsored clinical trials, which could reduce the need for our services. actions by government regulators or customers to limit a prescription scope or withdraw an approved drug from the market could adversely affect our business and result in a loss of revenues. government regulators have the authority, after approving a drug, to limit its scope of prescription or withdraw it from the market completely based on safety concerns. similarly, customers may act to voluntarily limit the scope of prescription of drugs or withdraw them from the market. in the past, we have provided services with respect to drugs that have been limited and/or withdrawn. if we are providing services to customers for drugs that are limited or withdrawn, we may be required to narrow the scope of or terminate our services with respect to such drugs, which would prevent us from earning the full amount of service revenues anticipated under the related service contracts with negative impacts to our financial results. current and proposed laws and regulations regarding the protection of personal data could result in increased risks of liability or increased cost to us or could limit our service offerings. the confidentiality, collection, use and disclosure of personal data, including clinical trial patient-specific information, are subject to governmental regulation generally in the country that the personal data were collected or used. for example, united states federal regulations under the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, require individuals written authorization, in addition to any required informed consent, before protected health information may be used for research and such regulations specify standards for deidentifications and for limited data sets. we are both directly and indirectly affected by the privacy provisions surrounding individual authorizations because many investigators with whom we are involved in clinical trials are directly subject to them as a hipaa covered entity and because we obtain identifiable health information from third parties that are subject to such regulations. because of amendments to the hipaa data security and privacy rules that were promulgated on january 25, 2013 and effective march 26, 2013, there are some instances where we are a hipaa business associate of a covered entity , so that we will be directly liable for mishandling protected health information. these amendments will subject us to hipaa enforcement scheme, which, as amended, can yield up to $1.5 million in annual civil penalties for each hipaa violation. 30 table of contents in the european union, or eu, personal data includes any information that relates to an identified or identifiable natural person with health information carrying additional obligations, including obtaining the explicit consent from the individual for collection, use or disclosure of the information. in addition, we are subject to eu rules with respect to cross-border transfers of such data out of the eu. the united states, the eu and its member states, and other countries where we have operations, such as japan, continue to issue new privacy and data protection rules and regulations that relate to personal data and health information. failure to comply with certain certification/registration and annual re-certification/registration provisions associated with these data protection and privacy regulations and rules in various jurisdictions, or to resolve any serious privacy complaints, could subject us to regulatory sanctions, criminal prosecution or civil liability. federal, state and foreign governments are contemplating or have proposed or adopted additional legislation governing the collection, possession, use or dissemination of personal data, such as personal health information, and personal financial data as well as security breach notification rules for loss or theft of such data. additional legislation or regulation of this type might, among other things, require us to implement new security measures and processes or bring within the legislation or regulation de-identified health or other personal data, each of which may require substantial expenditures or limit our ability to offer some of our services. additionally, if we violate applicable laws, regulations or duties relating to the use, privacy or security of personal data, we could be subject to civil liability or criminal prosecution, be forced to alter our business practices and suffer reputational harm. in the next few years, the european data protection framework may be revised as a generally applicable data regulation. the text has not yet been finalized, but it contains new provisions specifically directed at the processing of health information, sanctions of up to 5% of worldwide gross revenue and extra-territoriality measures intended to bring non-eu companies under the proposed regulation. if we do not keep pace with rapid technological changes, our services may become less competitive or obsolete. the biopharmaceutical industry generally, and drug development and clinical research more specifically, are subject to rapid technological changes. our current competitors or other businesses might develop technologies or services that are more effective or commercially attractive than, or render obsolete, our current or future technologies and services. if our competitors introduce superior technologies or services and if we cannot make enhancements to remain competitive, our competitive position would be harmed. if we are unable to compete successfully, we may lose customers or be unable to attract new customers, which could lead to a decrease in our revenue and financial condition. the biopharmaceutical industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation, and we might be involved in costly intellectual property lawsuits. the biopharmaceutical industry has a history of intellectual property litigation, and these lawsuits will likely continue in the future. accordingly, we may face patent infringement suits by companies that have patents for similar business processes or other suits alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. legal proceedings relating to intellectual property could be expensive, take significant time and divert management attention from other business concerns, regardless of the outcome of the litigation. if we do not prevail in an infringement lawsuit brought against us, we might have to pay substantial damages, and we could be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license to use technology on unfavorable terms. risks relating to our indebtedness our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial condition. as of december 31, 2013, we had $3.067 billion in total assets, $3.734 billion in total liabilities and a shareholders deficit of $667 million. included within total liabilities was $2.046 billion of total indebtedness, excluding $300.0 million of additional available borrowings under our revolving credit facility. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and thus make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our credit facilities. if our cash flow is not sufficient to service our debt and adequately fund our business, we may be required to seek further additional financing or refinancing or dispose of assets. we may not be able to influence any of these alternatives on satisfactory terms or at all. our substantial indebtedness could also: increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, investments, acquisitions, capital expenditures, r&amp;d efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our ability to make required payments under our existing contractual commitments, including our existing long-term indebtedness; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; 31 table of contents place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; cause us to incur substantial fees from time to time in connection with debt amendments or refinancings; increase our exposure to rising interest rates because a portion of our borrowings is at variable interest rates; and limit our ability to borrow additional funds or to borrow on terms that are satisfactory to us. despite our level of indebtedness, we are able to incur more debt and undertake additional obligations. incurring such debt or undertaking such additional obligations could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition. although our credit agreement, which governs the quintiles transnational senior credit facilities, contains restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could increase. we have approximately $300.0 million available for borrowing under our senior secured revolving credit facility. while the credit agreement also contains restrictions on our and our restricted subsidiaries ability to make loans and investments, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the investments incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. if we do not comply with the covenants governing our credit facilities, we may not have the funds necessary to pay all of our indebtedness that could become due. the credit agreement governing our credit facilities requires us to comply with certain covenants. in particular, our credit agreement prohibits us from incurring any additional indebtedness, except in specified circumstances, or amending the terms of agreements relating to certain existing junior indebtedness, if any, in a manner materially adverse to the lenders under our credit agreement, without lender approval. further, our credit agreement contains customary covenants, including covenants that restrict our ability to acquire and dispose of assets, engage in mergers or reorganizations, pay dividends or make investments. in addition, our credit agreement requires us to make mandatory principal prepayments in certain circumstances, including with a portion of our excess cash flow if quintiles transnational total leverage ratio (as defined in the credit agreement) exceeds certain levels. a violation of any of these covenants could cause an event of default under our credit agreement. if we default on our credit agreement as a result of our failure to pay principal or interest when due, our material breach of any representation, warranty or covenant, or any other reason, all outstanding amounts could become immediately due and payable. in such case, we may not have sufficient funds to repay all the outstanding amounts. in addition, or in the alternative, the lenders under our credit agreement could exercise their rights under the security documents entered into in connection with the credit agreement. any acceleration of amounts due under the credit agreement governing our outstanding indebtedness or the substantial exercise by the lenders of their rights under the security documents would likely have a material adverse effect on us. interest rate fluctuations may affect our results of operations and financial condition. because we have variable rate debt, fluctuations in interest rates affect our business. we attempt to minimize interest rate risk and lower our overall borrowing costs through the utilization of derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate swaps. we have entered into interest rate swaps with financial institutions that have reset dates and critical terms that match those of our term loan credit facility. accordingly, any change in market value associated with the interest rate swaps is offset by the opposite market impact on the related debt. as of december 31, 2013, we had approximately $2.061 billion of total indebtedness with variable interest at the greater of the three month libor or 1.25%, plus 2.50%, or 3.75% at december 31, 2013, of which $945.0 million, or 45.9%, was hedged at a fixed rate of 2.55%, leaving approximately $1.116 billion of unhedged variable rate debt. because we do not attempt to hedge all of our variable rate debt, we may incur higher interest costs for the portion of our variable rate debt which is not hedged. each quarter-point increase or decrease in the variable interest rate would result in our interest expense changing by approximately $2.8 million per year under our unhedged variable rate debt. 32 table of contents risks relating to ownership of our common stock the parties to the shareholders agreement have significant influence over us, including control over decisions that require the approval of our shareholders, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of matters submitted to shareholders for a vote. we and certain of our shareholders are party to a shareholders agreement dated january 22, 2008, as amended, or the shareholders agreement. the shareholders party to the shareholders agreement beneficially owned approximately 65% of our common stock as of february 6, 2014. the shareholders agreement, among other things, requires such shareholders to vote in favor of certain nominees to our board. as long as this group owns or controls at least a majority of our outstanding voting power, it has the ability to exercise substantial control over all corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, irrespective of how our other shareholders may vote, including: the election and removal of directors and the size of our board; any amendment of our articles of incorporation or bylaws; or the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions, including a sale of substantially all of our assets. we are a controlled company within the meaning of the nyse rules and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. our shareholders do not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to such requirements. the parties to the shareholders agreement control a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. as a result, we are a controlled company within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of the nyse. under these rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power for the election of directors is held by an individual, group or another company is a controlled company and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including the requirements that, within one year of the date of the listing of our common stock: we have a board that is composed of a majority of independent directors, as defined under the rules of such exchange; we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; and we have a nominating and corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors. because we utilize these exemptions, we do not have a majority of independent directors on our board. in addition, our compensation and talent development committee and our governance, quality and nominating committee do not consist entirely of independent directors and are not subject to annual performance evaluations. accordingly, our shareholders do not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the nyse. provisions of our corporate governance documents could make an acquisition of our company more difficult and may prevent attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management, even if beneficial to our shareholders. provisions of our articles of incorporation and our bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company that shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. these provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. in addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for shareholders to replace members of our board. because our board is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt to replace current members of our management team. among others, these provisions include (1) our ability to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval, (2) the requirement that our shareholders may not act without a meeting, (3) requirements for advance notification of shareholder nominations and proposals contained in our bylaws, (4) the absence of cumulative voting for our directors, (5) requirements for shareholder approval of certain business combinations and (6) the limitations on director nominations contained in our shareholders agreement. our operating results and share price may be volatile, which could cause the value of our shareholders investments to decline. our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate in the future, and such fluctuations may be significant. in addition, securities markets worldwide have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, significant price and volume fluctuations. this market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could subject the market price of our shares to wide price fluctuations regardless of our operating performance. our operating results and the trading price of our shares may fluctuate in response to various factors, including: market conditions in the broader stock market; 33 table of contents actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual financial and operating results; introduction of new products or services by us or our competitors; issuance of new or changed securities analysts reports or recommendations; sales, or anticipated sales, of large blocks of our stock; additions or departures of key personnel; regulatory or political developments; litigation and governmental investigations; changing economic conditions; and exchange rate fluctuations. these and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause our operating results and the market price for our shares to fluctuate substantially. while we believe that operating results for any particular quarter are not necessarily a meaningful indication of future results, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares and may otherwise negatively affect the market price and liquidity of our shares. in addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. if any of our shareholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management from our business, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation. there may be sales of a substantial amount of our common stock by our current shareholders, and these sales could cause the price of our common stock to fall. as of february 6, 2014, there were 129,842,707 shares of common stock outstanding. approximately 65% of our outstanding common stock is held by parties to the shareholders agreement. sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales will occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and make it difficult for us to raise funds through securities offerings in the future. shareholders that are a party to an amended and restated registration rights agreement, or the registration rights agreement, may require us to register their shares for resale under the federal securities laws. under the registration rights agreement, we are required to pay the registration expenses associated with the registration of such shares, not including the underwriting discounts, commissions and transfer taxes. registration of those shares would allow those shareholders to immediately resell their shares in the public market. any such sales or the anticipation of such sales may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. since we have no current plans to pay regular cash dividends on our common stock, shareholders may not receive any return on investment unless they sell their common stock for a price greater than that which they paid for it. although we have previously declared dividends to our shareholders, we do not currently anticipate paying any regular cash dividends on our common stock. any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors that our board may deem relevant. in addition, our ability to pay dividends is, and may be, limited by covenants of existing and any future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur, including under our existing credit facilities. therefore, any return on investment in our common stock is solely dependent upon the appreciation of the price of our common stock on the open market, which may not occur. see part ii, item 5 market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities policy for more detail. 34 table of contents our amended and restated articles of incorporation contain a provision renouncing any interest and expectancy in certain corporate opportunities identified by certain of our affiliates, even if such corporate opportunities are ones that we might reasonably be deemed to have pursued or had the ability or desire to pursue. our amended and restated articles of incorporation provide for the allocation of certain corporate opportunities between us, on the one hand, and certain of our shareholders, on the other hand. as set forth in our amended and restated articles of incorporation, neither such shareholders, nor any director, officer, shareholder, member, manager, or employee of such shareholders, have any fiduciary duty or any other duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. to the full extent permitted by applicable law, we have renounced any interest or expectancy in, or in being offered an opportunity to participate in, business opportunities that are from time to time presented to certain of our shareholders, even if the opportunity is one that we might reasonably deem to have pursued or had the ability or desire to pursue, if granted, the opportunity to do so, and each such shareholders shall have no duty to communicate or offer such business opportunity to us and, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, shall not be liable to us or, to the extent applicable, any of its or their shareholders, for breach of any fiduciary or other duty, as a director or officer or otherwise, by reason of the fact that such shareholders pursues or acquires such business opportunity, directs such business opportunity to another person or fails to present such business opportunity, or information regarding such business opportunity, to us. therefore, a director or officer of our company who also serves as a director, officer, member, manager, or employee of such shareholders may pursue certain business opportunities, including acquisitions, that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, such opportunities may not be available to us. these potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or prospects if attractive corporate opportunities are allocated by such shareholders to themselves or their other affiliates instead of to us. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and other relevant market rate or price changes. in the ordinary course of business, we are exposed to various market risks, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and equity price changes, and we regularly evaluate our exposure to such changes. our overall risk management strategy seeks to balance the magnitude of the exposure and the cost and availability of appropriate financial instruments. from time to time, we have utilized forward exchange contracts to manage our foreign currency exchange rate risk. the following analyses present the sensitivity of our financial instruments to hypothetical changes in interest rates and equity prices that are reasonably possible over a one-year period. foreign currency exchange rates approximately 37.8% and 38.9% of our service revenues for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, were denominated in currencies other than the united states dollar. our financial statements are reported in united states dollars and, accordingly, fluctuations in exchange rates will affect the translation of our revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies into united states dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated financial results. in 2013 and 2012, the most significant currency exchange rate exposures were the euro, british pound, singapore dollar, indian rupee and south african rand. a hypothetical change of 10% in average exchange rates used to translate all foreign currencies to united states dollars would have impacted income before income taxes for 2013 by approximately $45.0 million. accumulated currency translation adjustments recorded as a separate component of shareholders deficit were ($5.8) million and $19.3 million at december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. we do not have significant operations in countries in which the economy is considered to be highly-inflationary. we are subject to foreign currency transaction risk for fluctuations in exchange rates during the period of time between the consummation and cash settlement of a transaction. we earn revenue from our service contracts over a period of several months and, in some cases, over a period of several years. accordingly, exchange rate fluctuations during this period may affect our profitability with respect to such contracts. we limit our foreign currency transaction risk through exchange rate fluctuation provisions stated in our contracts with customers, or we may hedge our transaction risk with foreign currency exchange contracts. at december 31, 2013, we had 12 open foreign exchange forward contracts relating to service contracts with various amounts maturing monthly through september 2014 with a notional value totaling approximately $60.8 million. at december 31, 2012, we had 12 open foreign exchange forward contracts relating to service contracts with various amounts maturing monthly through september 2013 with a notional value totaling approximately $38.9 million. interest rates because we have variable rate debt, fluctuations in interest rates affect our business. we attempt to minimize interest rate risk and lower our overall borrowing costs through the utilization of derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate swaps. we have entered into interest rate swaps with financial institutions that have reset dates and critical terms that match those of our term loan credit facility. accordingly, any change in market value associated with the interest rate swaps is offset by the opposite market impact on the related debt. as of december 31, 2013, we had approximately $2.061 billion of total indebtedness with variable interest at the greater of the three month libor or 1.25%, plus 2.50%, or 3.75% at december 31, 2013, of which $945.0 million, or 45.9%, was hedged at a fixed rate of 2.55%, leaving approximately $1.116 billion of unhedged variable rate debt. because we do not attempt to hedge all of our variable rate debt, we may incur higher interest costs for the portion of our variable rate debt which is not hedged. each quarter-point increase or decrease in the variable interest rate would result in our interest expense changing by approximately $2.8 million per year under our unhedged variable rate debt. equity prices at december 31, 2013 and 2012, we held investments in marketable equity securities. these investments are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value in the financial statements. these securities are subject to equity price risk. as of december 31, 2013 and 2012, the fair value of these investments was $7.7 million and $2.4 million, respectively, based on quoted equity prices. the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical decrease of 10% in quoted equity price was approximately $767,000 and $243,000 at december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 59 table of contentsrisk factors risk factors we operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. you should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below together with the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k, in evaluating our company. the occurrence of any of the following risks may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. risks relating to our business the potential loss or delay of our large contracts or of multiple contracts could adversely affect our results. most of our customers can terminate our contracts upon 30 to 90 days notice. our customers may delay, terminate or reduce the scope of our contracts for a variety of reasons beyond our control, including but not limited to: decisions to forego or terminate a particular trial; lack of available financing, budgetary limits or changing priorities; actions by regulatory authorities; production problems resulting in shortages of the drug being tested; failure of products being tested to satisfy safety requirements or efficacy criteria; unexpected or undesired clinical results for products; insufficient patient enrollment in a trial; insufficient investigator recruitment; shift of business to a competitor or internal resources; product withdrawal following market launch; or shut down of manufacturing facilities. as a result, contract terminations, delays and alterations are a regular part of our business. in the event of termination, our contracts often provide for fees for winding down the project, but these fees may not be sufficient for us to maintain our margins, and termination may result in lower resource utilization rates. in addition, we may not realize the full benefits of our backlog of contractually committed services if our customers cancel, delay or reduce their commitments under our contracts with them, which may occur if, among other things, a customer decides to shift its business to a competitor or revoke our status as a preferred provider. thus, the loss or delay of a large contract or the loss or delay of multiple contracts could adversely affect our service revenues and profitability. we believe the risk of loss or delay of multiple contracts potentially has greater effect where we are party to broader partnering arrangements with global biopharmaceutical companies. our financial results may be adversely affected if we underprice our contracts, overrun our cost estimates or fail to receive approval for or experience delays in documenting change orders. most of our contracts are either fee for service contracts or fixed-fee contracts. our past financial results have been, and our future financial results may be, adversely impacted if we initially underprice our contracts or otherwise overrun our cost estimates and are unable to successfully negotiate a change order. change orders typically occur when the scope of work we perform needs to be modified from that originally contemplated by 21 our contract with the customer. modifications can occur, for example, when there is a change in a key trial assumption or parameter or a significant change in timing. where we are not successful in converting out-of-scope work into change orders under our current contracts, we bear the cost of the additional work. such underpricing, significant cost overruns or delay in documentation of change orders could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. the relationship of backlog to revenues varies over time. backlog represents future service revenues from work not yet completed or performed under signed contracts, letters of intent and, in some cases, written pre-contract commitments. once work begins on a project, revenue is recognized over the duration of the project. projects may be terminated or delayed by the customer or delayed by regulatory authorities for reasons beyond our control. to the extent projects are delayed, the timing of our revenue could be affected. in the event that a customer cancels a contract, we typically would be entitled to receive payment for all services performed up to the cancellation date and subsequent customer-authorized services related to terminating the canceled project. typically, however, we have no contractual right to the full amount of the revenue reflected in our backlog in the event of a contract cancellation. the duration of the projects included in our backlog, and the related revenue recognition, range from a few weeks to many years. our backlog may not be indicative of our future revenues, and we may not realize all the anticipated future revenue reflected in our backlog. a number of factors may affect backlog, including: the size, complexity and duration of the projects; the cancellation or delay of projects; and change in the scope of work during the course of a project. our backlog at december 31, 2014 was $11,244 million compared to backlog of $9,855 million at december 31, 2013. although an increase in backlog will generally result in an increase in revenues to be recognized over time (depending on the level of cancellations), an increase in backlog at a particular point in time does not necessarily correspond directly to an increase in revenues during a particular period. the extent to which contracts in backlog will result in revenue depends on many factors, including but not limited to delivery against projected schedules, the need for scope changes (change orders), contract cancellations and the nature, duration, size, complexity and phase of the contracts, each of which factors can vary significantly from time to time. our $11,244 million of backlog at december 31, 2014 included approximately $7,593 million of backlog that we do not expect to generate revenue in 2015 as compared to our $9,855 million of backlog at december 31, 2013, which included approximately $6,342 million of backlog that we did not expect to generate revenue in 2014. the rate at which our backlog converts to revenue may vary over time for a variety of reasons. the revenue recognition on larger, more global projects could be slower than on smaller, less global projects for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to an extended period of negotiation between the time the project is awarded to us and the actual execution of the contract, as well as an increased timeframe for obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals. additionally, the increased complexity of trials and the need to enroll precise patient populations could extend the length of trials causing revenue to be recognized over a longer period of time. further, delayed projects will remain in backlog, unless otherwise canceled by the customer, and will not generate revenue at the rate originally expected. thus, the relationship of backlog to realized revenues may vary over time. our business depends on the continued effectiveness and availability of our information systems, including the information systems we use to provide our services to our customers, and failures of these systems may materially limit our operations. due to the global nature of our business and our reliance on information systems to provide our services, we intend to increase our use of web-enabled and other integrated information systems in delivering our services. we also provide access to similar information systems to certain of our customers in connection with the services 22 we provide them. as the breadth and complexity of our information systems continue to grow, we will increasingly be exposed to the risks inherent in the development, integration and ongoing operation of evolving information systems, including: disruption, impairment or failure of data centers, telecommunications facilities or other key infrastructure platforms; security breaches of, cyber attacks on and other failures or malfunctions in our critical application systems or their associated hardware; and excessive costs, excessive delays or other deficiencies in systems development and deployment. the materialization of any of these risks may impede the processing of data, the delivery of databases and services, and the day-to-day management of our business and could result in the corruption, loss or unauthorized disclosure of proprietary, confidential or other data. while we have disaster recovery plans in place, they might not adequately protect us in the event of a system failure. despite any precautions we take, damage from fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, break-ins and similar events at our various computer facilities could result in interruptions in the flow of data to our servers and from our servers to our customers. corruption or loss of data may result in the need to repeat a trial at no cost to the customer, but at significant cost to us, the termination of a contract or damage to our reputation. additionally, significant delays in system enhancements or inadequate performance of new or upgraded systems once completed could damage our reputation and harm our business. finally, long-term disruptions in the infrastructure caused by events such as natural disasters, the outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities and acts of terrorism, particularly involving cities in which we have offices, could adversely affect our businesses. although we carry property and business interruption insurance, our coverage might not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential data, whether through systems failure or employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers. similarly, we have been and expect that we will continue to be subject to attempts to gain unauthorized access to or through our information systems or those we develop for our customers, whether by our employees or third parties, including a cyber attack by computer programmers and hackers who may develop and deploy viruses, worms or other malicious software programs. to date these attacks have not had a material impact on our operations or financial results. nonetheless, successful attacks in the future could result in negative publicity, significant remediation costs, legal liability and damage to our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, our liability insurance might not be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to security breaches, cyber attacks and other related breaches. we may be adversely affected by customer or therapeutic concentration. although we did not have any customer that represented 10% or more of our service revenues in 2014, 2013, or 2012, we derive the majority of our revenues from a number of large customers. if any large customer decreases or terminates its relationship with us, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. additionally, conducting multiple clinical trials for different customers in a single therapeutic class involving drugs with the same or similar chemical action has in the past and may in the future adversely affect our business if some or all of the trials are canceled because of new scientific information or regulatory judgments that affect the drugs as a class or if industry consolidation results in the rationalization of drug development pipelines. similarly, marketing and selling drugs for different biopharmaceutical companies with similar chemical actions subjects us to risk if new scientific information or regulatory judgment prejudices the drugs as a class, which may lead to compelled or voluntary prescription limitations or withdrawal of some or all of such drugs from the market. 23 our business is subject to international economic, political and other risks that could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. we have significant operations in foreign countries that may require complex arrangements to deliver services on global contracts for our customers. additionally, we have established operations in locations remote from our most developed business centers. as a result, we are subject to heightened risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including the following: conducting a single trial across multiple countries is complex, and issues in one country, such as a failure to comply with local regulations or restrictions, may affect the progress of the trial in the other countries, for example, by limiting the amount of data necessary for a trial to proceed, resulting in delays or potential cancellation of contracts, which in turn may result in loss of revenue; the united states or foreign countries could enact legislation or impose regulations or other restrictions, including unfavorable labor regulations, tax policies or economic sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business in or expatriate profits from the countries in which we operate; foreign countries are expanding or may expand their regulatory framework with respect to patient informed consent, protection and compensation in clinical trials, which could delay or inhibit our ability to conduct trials in such jurisdictions; the regulatory or judicial authorities of foreign countries may not enforce legal rights and recognize business procedures in a manner in which we are accustomed or would reasonably expect; changes in political and economic conditions may lead to changes in the business environment in which we operate, as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates; potential violations of local laws or anti-bribery laws, such as the united states foreign corrupt practices act, or the fcpa, and the uk bribery act, may cause difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations, as well as significant consequences to us if those laws are violated; customers in foreign jurisdictions may have longer payment cycles, and it may be more difficult to collect receivables in foreign jurisdictions; and natural disasters, pandemics or international conflict, including terrorist acts, could interrupt our services, endanger our personnel or cause project delays or loss of trial materials or results. these risks and uncertainties could negatively impact our ability to, among other things, perform large, global projects for our customers. furthermore, our ability to deal with these issues could be affected by applicable united states laws and the need to protect our assets. any such risks could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. due to the global nature of our business, we may be exposed to liabilities under the united states foreign corrupt practices act and various non-u.s. anti-corruption laws, and any allegation or determination that we violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are required to comply with the united states foreign corrupt practices act, or the fcpa, and other u.s. and non-u.s. anti-corruption laws, which prohibit companies from engaging in bribery including corruptly or improperly offering, promising, or providing money or anything else of value to non-u.s. officials and certain other recipients. in addition, the fcpa imposes certain books, records, and accounting control obligations on public companies and other issuers. we operate in parts of the world in which corruption can be common and compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. our global operations face the risk of unauthorized payments or offers being made by employees, consultants, sales agents, and other business partners outside of our control or without our authorization. it is our policy to implement safeguards to prohibit these practices by our employees and business partners with respect to our operations. however, irrespective of these safeguards, or as a result of monitoring compliance with such safeguards, it is possible that we or certain 24 other parties may discover or receive information at some point that certain employees, consultants, sales agents, or other business partners may have engaged in corrupt conduct for which we might be held responsible. violations of the fcpa or other non-u.s. anti-corruption laws may result in restatements of, or irregularities in, our financial statements as well as severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. in some cases, companies that violate the fcpa may be debarred by the u.s. government and/or lose their u.s. export privileges. changes in anti-corruption laws or enforcement priorities could also result in increased compliance requirements and related costs which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the u.s. or other governments may seek to hold us liable for successor liability fcpa violations or violations of other anti-corruption laws committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquired or will acquire. if we are unable to successfully develop and market new services or enter new markets, our growth, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. a key element of our growth strategy is the successful development and marketing of new services or entering new markets that complement or expand our existing business. as we develop new services or enter new markets, including services targeted at participants in the broader healthcare industry, we may not have or adequately build the competencies necessary to perform such services satisfactorily, may not receive market acceptance for such services or may face increased competition. if we are unable to succeed in developing new services, entering new markets or attracting a customer base for our new services or in new markets, we will be unable to implement this element of our growth strategy, and our future business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. upgrading the information systems that support our operating processes and evolving the technology platform for our services pose risks to our business. continued efficient operation of our business requires that we implement standardized global business processes and evolve our information systems to enable this implementation. we have continued to undertake significant programs to optimize business processes with respect to our services. our inability to effectively manage the implementation and adapt to new processes designed into these new or upgraded systems in a timely and cost-effective manner may result in disruption to our business and negatively affect our operations. we have entered into agreements with certain vendors to provide systems development and integration services that develop or license to us the it platform for programs to optimize our business processes. if such vendors fail to perform as required or if there are substantial delays in developing, implementing and updating the it platform, our customer delivery may be impaired, and we may have to make substantial further investments, internally or with third parties, to achieve our objectives. additionally, our progress may be limited by parties with existing or claimed patents who seek to enjoin us from using preferred technology or seek license payments from us. meeting our objectives is dependent on a number of factors which may not take place as we anticipate, including obtaining adequate technology-enabled services, creating it-enabled services that our customers will find desirable and implementing our business model with respect to these services. also, increased it-related expenditures may negatively impact our profitability. if we fail to perform our services in accordance with contractual requirements, regulatory standards and ethical considerations, we could be subject to significant costs or liability and our reputation could be harmed. we contract with biopharmaceutical companies to perform a wide range of services to assist them in bringing new drugs to market. our services include monitoring clinical trials, data and laboratory analysis, edc, patient recruitment and other related services. such services are complex and subject to contractual requirements, regulatory standards and ethical considerations. for example, we must adhere to regulatory requirements such as the fda and current gcp, glp and gmp requirements. if we fail to perform our services in accordance with 25 these requirements, regulatory agencies may take action against us for failure to comply with applicable regulations governing clinical trials or sales and marketing practices. such actions may include sanctions, such as injunctions or failure of such regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of products, delay, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, product seizures or recalls, operational restrictions, civil or criminal penalties or prosecutions, damages or fines. customers may also bring claims against us for breach of our contractual obligations and patients in the clinical trials and patients taking drugs approved on the basis of those trials may bring personal injury claims against us for negligence. any such action could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and reputation. such consequences could arise if, among other things, the following occur: improper performance of our services. the performance of clinical development services is complex and time-consuming. for example, we may make mistakes in conducting a clinical trial that could negatively impact or obviate the usefulness of the trial or cause the results of the trial to be reported improperly. if the trial results are compromised, we could be subject to significant costs or liability, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to perform our services. as examples: non-compliance generally could result in the termination of ongoing clinical trials or sales and marketing projects or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities; compromise of data from a particular trial, such as failure to verify that informed consent was obtained from patients, could require us to repeat the trial under the terms of our contract at no further cost to our customer, but at a substantial cost to us; and breach of a contractual term could result in liability for damages or termination of the contract. large clinical trials can cost hundreds of millions of dollars, and while we endeavor to contractually limit our exposure to such risks, improper performance of our services could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, damage our reputation and result in the cancellation of current contracts by or failure to obtain future contracts from the affected customer or other customers. investigation of customers. from time to time, one or more of our customers are audited or investigated by regulatory authorities or enforcement agencies with respect to regulatory compliance of their clinical trials, programs or the marketing and sale of their drugs. in these situations, we have often provided services to our customers with respect to the clinical trials, programs or activities being audited or investigated, and we are called upon to respond to requests for information by the authorities and agencies. there is a risk that either our customers or regulatory authorities could claim that we performed our services improperly or that we are responsible for clinical trial or program compliance. if our customers or regulatory authorities make such claims against us and prove them, we could be subject to damages, fines or penalties. in addition, negative publicity regarding regulatory compliance of our customers clinical trials, programs or drugs could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. insufficient customer funding to complete a clinical trial. as noted above, clinical trials can cost hundreds of millions of dollars. there is a risk that we may initiate a clinical trial for a customer, and then the customer becomes unwilling or unable to fund the completion of the trial. in such a situation, notwithstanding the customer ability or willingness to pay for or otherwise facilitate the completion of the trial, we may be ethically bound to complete or wind down the trial at our own expense. our research and development services could subject us to potential liability that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our business involves the testing of new drugs on patients in clinical trials and, if marketing approval is granted, the availability of these drugs to be prescribed to patients. our involvement in the clinical trials and development process creates a risk of liability for personal injury to or death of patients, particularly those with life-threatening illnesses, resulting from adverse reactions to the drugs administered during testing or after product launch, respectively. for example, we have from time to time been sued and may be sued in the future by 26 individuals alleging personal injury due to their participation in clinical trials and seeking damages from us under a variety of legal theories. although we maintain the types and amounts of insurance customary in the industries and countries in which we operate, if we are required to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with any personal injury claim that is outside the scope of indemnification agreements we have with our customers, if any indemnification agreement is not performed in accordance with its terms or if our liability exceeds the amount of any applicable indemnification limits or available insurance coverage, our financial condition, results of operations and reputation could be materially and adversely affected. currently, we maintain professional liability insurance, including products liability for completed operations coverage, with annual aggregate limits in excess of $50.0 million. in the future, we may not be able to get adequate insurance for these types of risks at reasonable rates. we also contract with physicians to serve as investigators in conducting clinical trials. if the investigators commit errors or make omissions during a clinical trial that result in harm to trial patients or after a clinical trial to a patient using the drug after it has received regulatory approval, claims for personal injury or products liability damages may result. additionally, if the investigators engage in fraudulent behavior, trial data may be compromised, which may require us to repeat the clinical trial or subject us to liability. we do not believe we are legally responsible for the medical care rendered by such third-party investigators, and we would vigorously defend any claims brought against us. however, it is possible we could be found liable for claims with respect to the actions of third-party investigators. some of our services involve direct interaction with clinical trial subjects or volunteers and operation of phase i clinical facilities, which could create potential liability that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we operate two facilities where phase i clinical trials are conducted, which ordinarily involve testing an investigational drug on a limited number of healthy individuals, typically 20 to 80 persons, to determine such drug basic safety. failure to operate such a facility in accordance with applicable regulations could result in that facility being shut down, which could disrupt our operations. additionally, we face risks associated with adverse events resulting from the administration of such drugs to healthy volunteers and the professional malpractice of medical care providers. occasionally, physicians employed at our phase i clinical facilities act as principal investigators in later-phase trials at those same facilities. we also directly employ nurses and other trained employees who assist in implementing the testing involved in our clinical trials, such as drawing blood from healthy volunteers. any professional malpractice or negligence by such investigators, nurses or other employees could potentially result in liability to us in the event of personal injury to or death of a healthy volunteer in clinical trials. this liability, particularly if it were to exceed the limits of any indemnification agreements and insurance coverage we may have, may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. our commercial services could result in liability to us if a drug causes harm to a patient. while we are generally indemnified and insured against such risks, we may still suffer financial losses. when we market drugs under contract for a biopharmaceutical company, we could suffer liability for harm allegedly caused by those drugs, either as a result of a lawsuit against the biopharmaceutical company to which we are joined, a lawsuit naming us or any of our subsidiaries or an action launched by a regulatory body. while we are indemnified by the biopharmaceutical company for the action of the drugs we market on its behalf, and we carry insurance to cover harm caused by our negligence in performing services, it is possible that we could nonetheless incur financial losses, regulatory penalties or both. in particular, any claim could result in potential liability for us if the claim is outside the scope of the indemnification agreement we have with the biopharmaceutical company, the biopharmaceutical company does not abide by the indemnification agreement as required or the liability exceeds the amount of any applicable indemnification limits or available insurance coverage. such a finding could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. furthermore, negative publicity associated with harm caused by drugs we helped to market could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. 27 our insurance may not cover all of our indemnification obligations and other liabilities associated with our operations. we maintain insurance designed to provide coverage for ordinary risks associated with our operations and our ordinary indemnification obligations with annual aggregate limits in excess of $50.0 million. the coverage provided by such insurance may not be adequate for all claims we may make or may be contested by our insurance carriers. if our insurance is not adequate or available to pay liabilities associated with our operations, or if we are unable to purchase adequate insurance at reasonable rates in the future, our profitability may be adversely impacted. if we are unable to attract suitable investigators and patients for our clinical trials, our clinical development business might suffer. the recruitment of investigators and patients for clinical trials is essential to our business. investigators are typically located at hospitals, clinics or other sites and supervise the administration of the investigational drug to patients during the course of a clinical trial. patients generally include people from the communities in which the clinical trials are conducted. our clinical development business could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract suitable and willing investigators or patients for clinical trials on a consistent basis. for example, if we are unable to engage investigators to conduct clinical trials as planned or enroll sufficient patients in clinical trials, we might need to expend additional funds to obtain access to resources or else be compelled to delay or modify the clinical trial plans, which may result in additional costs to us. if we lose the services of key personnel or are unable to recruit experienced personnel, our business could be adversely affected. our success substantially depends on the collective performance, contributions and expertise of our senior management team and other key personnel including qualified management, professional, scientific and technical operating staff and qualified sales representatives for our contract sales services. there is significant competition for qualified personnel, particularly those with higher educational degrees, such as a medical degree, a ph.d. or an equivalent degree, in the biopharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical services industries. the departure of any key executive, or our inability to continue to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel or replace any departed personnel in a timely fashion, may impact our ability to grow our business and compete effectively in our industry and may negatively affect our ability to meet financial and operational goals. exchange rate fluctuations may affect our results of operations and financial condition. in 2014, approximately 38% of our service revenues were denominated in currencies other than the united states dollar. because a large portion of our service revenues and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the united states dollar and our financial statements are reported in united states dollars, changes in foreign currency exchange rates could significantly affect our results of operations and financial condition. exchange rate fluctuations between local currencies and the united states dollar create risk in several ways, including: foreign currency translation risk. the revenue and expenses of our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies and translated into united states dollars for financial reporting purposes. accordingly, exchange rate fluctuations will affect the translation of foreign results into united states dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated results. foreign currency transaction risk. we are subject to foreign currency transaction risk for fluctuations in exchange rates during the period of time between the consummation and cash settlement of a transaction. we earn revenue from our service contracts over a period of several months and, in some cases, over several years. accordingly, exchange rate fluctuations during this period may affect our profitability with respect to such contracts. 28 we may limit these risks through exchange rate fluctuation provisions stated in our service contracts, or we may hedge our transaction risk with foreign currency exchange contracts or options. we have not, however, hedged 100% of our foreign currency transaction risk, and we may experience fluctuations in financial results from our operations outside the united states and foreign currency transaction risk associated with our service contracts. disruptions in the credit and capital markets and unfavorable general economic conditions could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. disruptions in the credit and capital markets could have negative effects on our business that may be difficult to predict or anticipate, including the ability of our customers, vendors, contractors and financing sources to meet their contractual obligations. although we are unable to quantify the impact it has had on us, we are aware of a limited number of instances during the past several years where cancellations, changes in scope and failure to pay timely were attributable, at least in part, to difficulty in our customers ability to obtain financing. in the future such actions by our customers could, if they involve a significant amount of business with us, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our effective income tax rate may fluctuate, which may adversely affect our operations, earnings and earnings per share. our effective income tax rate is influenced by our projected profitability in the various taxing jurisdictions in which we operate. changes in the distribution of profits and losses among taxing jurisdictions may have a significant impact on our effective income tax rate, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our net income and earnings per share. factors that may affect our effective income tax rate include, but are not limited to: the requirement to exclude from our quarterly worldwide effective income tax calculations losses in jurisdictions where no income tax benefit can be recognized; actual and projected full year pre-tax income; the repatriation of foreign earnings to the united states; changes in tax laws in various taxing jurisdictions; audits by taxing authorities; and the establishment of valuation allowances against deferred income tax assets if we determined that it is more likely than not that future income tax benefits will not be realized. these changes may cause fluctuations in our effective income tax rate that could adversely affect our results of operations and cause fluctuations in our earnings and earnings per share. we have only a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights, and these rights are important to our success. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to develop, use and protect our proprietary methodologies, analytics, systems, technologies and other intellectual property. existing laws of the various countries in which we provide services or solutions offer only limited protection of our intellectual property rights, and the protection in some countries may be very limited. we rely upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, nondisclosure, invention assignment and other contractual arrangements, and patent, copyright and trademark laws, to protect our intellectual property rights. these laws are subject to change at any time and certain agreements may not be fully enforceable, which could further restrict our ability to protect our innovations. our intellectual property rights may not prevent competitors from independently developing services similar to or duplicative of ours. further, the steps we take in this regard might not be adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation of our intellectual property by competitors, former 29 employees or other third parties, and we might not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. enforcing our rights might also require considerable time, money and oversight, and we may not be successful in enforcing our rights. depending on the circumstances, we might need to grant a specific customer greater rights in intellectual property developed in connection with a contract than we otherwise generally do. in certain situations, we might forego all rights to the use of intellectual property we create, which would limit our ability to reuse that intellectual property for other customers. any limitation on our ability to provide a service or solution could cause us to lose revenue-generating opportunities and require us to incur additional expenses to develop or license new or modified solutions for future projects. our relationships with existing or potential customers who are in competition with each other may adversely impact the degree to which other customers or potential customers use our services, which may adversely affect our results of operations. the biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive, with biopharmaceutical companies each seeking to persuade payers, providers and patients that their drug therapies are better and more cost-effective than competing therapies marketed or being developed by competing firms. in addition to the adverse competitive interests that biopharmaceutical companies have with each other, biopharmaceutical companies also have adverse interests with respect to drug selection and reimbursement with other participants in the healthcare industry, including payers and providers. biopharmaceutical companies also compete to be first to market with new drug therapies. we regularly provide services to biopharmaceutical companies who compete with each other, and we sometimes provide services or funding to such customers regarding competing drugs in development. our existing or future relationships with our biopharmaceutical customers may therefore deter other biopharmaceutical customers from using our services or may result in our customers seeking to place limits on our ability to serve other biopharmaceutical industry participants. in addition, our further expansion into the broader healthcare market may adversely impact our relationships with biopharmaceutical customers, and such customers may elect not to use our services, reduce the scope of services that we provide to them or seek to place restrictions on our ability to serve customers in the broader healthcare market with interests that are adverse to theirs. any loss of customers or reductions in the level of revenues from a customer could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, business and prospects. if we are unable to successfully identify, acquire and integrate existing businesses, services and technologies, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. we anticipate that a portion of our future growth may come from acquiring existing businesses, services or technologies. the success of any acquisition will depend upon, among other things, our ability to effectively integrate acquired personnel, operations, products and technologies into our business and to retain the key personnel and customers of our acquired businesses. in addition, we may be unable to identify suitable acquisition opportunities or obtain any necessary financing on commercially acceptable terms. we may also spend time and money investigating and negotiating with potential acquisition targets but not complete the transaction. any future acquisition could involve other risks, including, among others, the assumption of additional liabilities and expenses, difficulties and expenses in connection with integrating the acquired companies and achieving the expected benefits, issuances of potentially dilutive securities or interest-bearing debt, loss of key employees of the acquired companies, transaction costs, diversion of management attention from other business concerns and, with respect to the acquisition of foreign companies, the inability to overcome differences in foreign business practices, language and customs. our failure to identify potential acquisitions, complete targeted acquisitions and integrate completed acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 30 investments in our customers businesses or drugs and our related commercial rights strategies could have a negative impact on our financial performance. we may enter into arrangements with our customers or other drug companies in which we take on some of the risk of the potential success or failure of their businesses or drugs, including making strategic investments in our customers or other drug companies, providing financing to customers or other drug companies or acquiring an interest in the revenues from customers drugs or in entities developing a limited number of drugs. as of december 31, 2014, we had approximately $38.0 million of such arrangements, and we were also committed to invest an additional $25.0 million in the novaquest pharma opportunities fund iii, l.p., a private equity fund that seeks to enter into similar risk-based arrangements. our financial results would be adversely affected if these investments or the underlying drugs result in losses or do not achieve the level of success that we anticipate and/or our return or payment from the drug investment or financing is less than our direct and indirect costs with respect to these arrangements. our results of operations may be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our goodwill and intangible assets. as of december 31, 2014, we had goodwill and net intangible assets of $744.7 million, which constituted approximately 22.5% of our total assets at the end of this period. we assess the realizability of our indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill annually and conduct an interim evaluation whenever events or changes in circumstances, such as operating losses or a significant decline in earnings associated with the acquired business or asset, indicate that these assets may be impaired. our ability to realize the value of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets will depend on the future cash flows of the businesses we have acquired, which in turn depend in part on how well we have integrated these businesses into our own business. if we are not able to realize the value of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. such impairment charges could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we face risks arising from the restructuring of our operations. from time to time, we have adopted restructuring plans to improve our operating efficiency through various means such as reduction of overcapacity, elimination of non-billable support roles or other realignment of resources. for example, in 2014, our board approved restructuring plans of up to $13 million which resulted in a reduction of approximately 250 positions. in february 2013, our board approved a restructuring plan of up to $15 million which resulted in a reduction of approximately 400 positions. restructuring presents significant potential risks of events occurring that could adversely affect us, including a decrease in employee morale, the failure to achieve targeted cost savings and the failure to meet operational targets and customer requirements due to the loss of employees and any work stoppages that might occur. we depend on third parties for critical support services. we depend on third parties for support services vital to our business. such support services include, but are not limited to, third-party transportation providers, suppliers of drugs for patients participating in clinical trials, suppliers of kits for use in our central laboratory business, suppliers of reagents for use in our testing equipment and providers of maintenance contracts for our equipment. the failure of any of these third parties to adequately provide the critical support services could have a material adverse effect on our business. risks relating to our industry the biopharmaceutical services industry is highly competitive. the biopharmaceutical services industry is highly competitive. we often compete for business with other biopharmaceutical services companies, internal discovery departments, development departments, and sales and marketing departments within our customers, some of which could be considered large biopharmaceutical services companies in their own right with greater resources than ours. we also compete with universities and 31 teaching hospitals. if we do not compete successfully, our business will suffer. the industry is highly fragmented, with numerous smaller specialized companies and a handful of full-service companies with global capabilities similar to ours. increased competition has led to price and other forms of competition, such as acceptance of less favorable contract terms, that could adversely affect our operating results. there are few barriers to entry for smaller specialized companies considering entering the industry. because of their size and focus, these companies might compete effectively against larger companies such as us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. outsourcing trends in the biopharmaceutical industry and changes in aggregate spending and r&amp;d budgets could adversely affect our operating results and growth rate. economic factors and industry trends that affect biopharmaceutical companies affect our business. biopharmaceutical companies continue to seek long-term strategic collaborations with global cros with favorable pricing terms. competition for these collaborations is intense and we may decide to forego an opportunity or we may not be selected, in which case a competitor may enter into the collaboration and our business with the customer, if any, may be limited. in addition, if the biopharmaceutical industry reduces its outsourcing of clinical trials and sales and marketing projects or such outsourcing fails to grow at projected rates, our operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. we may also be negatively impacted by consolidation and other factors in the biopharmaceutical industry, which may slow decision making by our customers or result in the delay or cancellation of clinical trials. our commercial services may be affected by reductions in new drug launches and increases in the number of drugs losing patent protection. all of these events could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. we may be affected by healthcare reform and potential additional reforms. the united states congress continues to consider healthcare reform legislation and impose health industry cost containment measures, which may significantly impact the biopharmaceutical industry. in addition, numerous government bodies are considering or have adopted various healthcare reforms and may undertake, or are in the process of undertaking, efforts to control growing healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and biopharmaceutical companies. we are uncertain as to the effects of these recent reforms on our business and are unable to predict what legislative proposals, if any, will be adopted in the future. if regulatory cost containment efforts limit the profitability of new drugs, our customers may reduce their r&amp;d spending or promotional, marketing and sales expenditures, which could reduce the business they outsource to us. similarly, if regulatory requirements are relaxed or simplified drug approval procedures are adopted, the demand for our services could decrease. government bodies may also adopt healthcare legislation or regulations that are more burdensome than existing regulations. for example, product safety concerns and recommendations by the drug safety oversight board could change the regulatory environment for drug products, and new or heightened regulatory requirements may increase our expenses or limit our ability to offer some of our services. additionally, new or heightened regulatory requirements may have a negative impact on the ability of our customers to conduct industry-sponsored clinical trials, which could reduce the need for our services. actions by government regulators or customers to limit a prescription scope or withdraw an approved drug from the market could adversely affect our business and result in a loss of revenues. government regulators have the authority, after approving a drug, to limit its scope of prescription or withdraw it from the market completely based on safety concerns. similarly, customers may act to voluntarily limit the scope of prescription of drugs or withdraw them from the market. in the past, we have provided services with respect to drugs that have been limited and/or withdrawn. if we are providing services to customers for drugs that are limited or withdrawn, we may be required to narrow the scope of or terminate our services with respect to such drugs, which would prevent us from earning the full amount of service revenues anticipated under the related service contracts with negative impacts to our financial results. 32 current and proposed laws and regulations regarding the protection of personal data could result in increased risks of liability or increased cost to us or could limit our service offerings. the confidentiality, collection, use and disclosure of personal data, including clinical trial patient-specific information, are subject to governmental regulation generally in the country that the personal data were collected or used. for example, united states federal regulations under the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, and as amended in 2014 by the health information technology for economic and clinical health ( hitech ) act, require individuals written authorization, in addition to any required informed consent, before protected health information may be used for research. such regulations specify standards for deidentifications and for limited data sets. we are both directly and indirectly affected by the privacy provisions surrounding individual authorizations because many investigators with whom we are involved in clinical trials are directly subject to them as a hipaa covered entity and because we obtain identifiable health information from third parties that are subject to such regulations. as there are some instances where we are a hipaa business associate of a covered entity, we can also be directly liable for mishandling protected health information. under hipaa enforcement scheme, we can be subject to up to $1.5 million in annual civil penalties for each hipaa violation. in the european union, or eu, personal data includes any information that relates to an identified or identifiable natural person with health information carrying additional obligations, including obtaining the explicit consent from the individual for collection, use or disclosure of the information. in addition, we are subject to eu rules with respect to cross-border transfers of such data out of the eu. the united states, the eu and its member states, and other countries where we have operations, such as japan, south korea, malaysia, the philippines, russia and singapore, continue to issue new privacy and data protection rules and regulations that relate to personal data and health information. failure to comply with certain certification/registration and annual re-certification/registration provisions associated with these data protection and privacy regulations and rules in various jurisdictions, or to resolve any serious privacy complaints, could subject us to regulatory sanctions, criminal prosecution or civil liability. federal, state and foreign governments are contemplating or have proposed or adopted additional legislation governing the collection, possession, use or dissemination of personal data, such as personal health information, and personal financial data as well as security breach notification rules for loss or theft of such data. additional legislation or regulation of this type might, among other things, require us to implement new security measures and processes or bring within the legislation or regulation de-identified health or other personal data, each of which may require substantial expenditures or limit our ability to offer some of our services. additionally, if we violate applicable laws, regulations or duties relating to the use, privacy or security of personal data, we could be subject to civil liability or criminal prosecution, be forced to alter our business practices and suffer reputational harm. in the next few years, the european data protection framework may be revised as a generally applicable data regulation. the text has not yet been finalized, but it contains new provisions specifically directed at the processing of health information, sanctions of up to 5% of worldwide gross revenue and extra-territoriality measures intended to bring non-eu companies under the proposed regulation. if we do not keep pace with rapid technological changes, our services may become less competitive or obsolete. the biopharmaceutical industry generally, and drug development and clinical research more specifically, are subject to rapid technological changes. our current competitors or other businesses might develop technologies or services that are more effective or commercially attractive than, or render obsolete, our current or future technologies and services. if our competitors introduce superior technologies or services and if we cannot make enhancements to remain competitive, our competitive position would be harmed. if we are unable to compete successfully, we may lose customers or be unable to attract new customers, which could lead to a decrease in our revenue and financial condition. 33 the biopharmaceutical industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation, and we might be involved in costly intellectual property lawsuits. the biopharmaceutical industry has a history of intellectual property litigation, and these lawsuits will likely continue in the future. accordingly, we may face patent infringement suits by companies that have patents for similar business processes or other suits alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. legal proceedings relating to intellectual property could be expensive, take significant time and divert management attention from other business concerns, regardless of the outcome of the litigation. if we do not prevail in an infringement lawsuit brought against us, we might have to pay substantial damages, and we could be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license to use technology on unfavorable terms. risks relating to our indebtedness our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial condition. as of december 31, 2014, we had $3.306 billion in total assets, $4.010 billion in total liabilities and a shareholders deficit of $704 million. included within total liabilities was $2.293 billion of total indebtedness, excluding $400.0 million of additional available borrowings under our revolving credit facility and $25.0 million of additional available borrowings under our receivables financing facility. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and thus make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our credit facilities. if our cash flow is not sufficient to service our debt and adequately fund our business, we may be required to seek further additional financing or refinancing or dispose of assets. we may not be able to influence any of these alternatives on satisfactory terms or at all. our substantial indebtedness could also: increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, investments, acquisitions, capital expenditures, r&amp;d efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our ability to make required payments under our existing contractual commitments, including our existing long-term indebtedness; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; cause us to incur substantial fees from time to time in connection with debt amendments or refinancings; increase our exposure to rising interest rates because a portion of our borrowings is at variable interest rates; and limit our ability to borrow additional funds or to borrow on terms that are satisfactory to us. despite our level of indebtedness, we are able to incur more debt and undertake additional obligations. incurring such debt or undertaking such additional obligations could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition. although our credit agreement, which governs the senior credit facilities of our wholly owned subsidiary through which we conduct our operations, quintiles transnational corp., or quintiles transnational, contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could increase. in addition, the receivables financing agreement for our special purpose subsidiary, quintiles funding, llc, or quintiles funding, limits borrowing based on the amount of receivables purchased by quintiles funding from certain of our other subsidiaries, but when supported by the value of such purchased receivables, the debt under 34 our receivables financing facility can increase. we have $400.0 million available for borrowing under our senior secured revolving credit facility and $25.0 million of additional available borrowings under our receivables financing facility. while the credit agreement also contains restrictions on our and our restricted subsidiaries ability to make loans and investments, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the investments incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. if we do not comply with the covenants governing our credit facilities, we may not have the funds necessary to pay all of our indebtedness that could become due. the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities requires us to comply with certain covenants. in particular, our credit agreement prohibits us from incurring any additional indebtedness, except in specified circumstances, or amending the terms of agreements relating to certain existing junior indebtedness, if any, in a manner materially adverse to the lenders under our credit agreement, without lender approval. further, our credit agreement contains customary covenants, including covenants that restrict our ability to acquire and dispose of assets, engage in mergers or reorganizations, pay dividends or make investments. in addition, our credit agreement requires us to make mandatory principal prepayments in certain circumstances, including with a portion of our excess cash flow if quintiles transnational total leverage ratio (as defined in the credit agreement) exceeds certain levels. a violation of any of these covenants could cause an event of default under our credit agreement. the receivables financing agreement for our receivables financing facility requires certain of our subsidiaries to transfer receivables with adequate value to the lender under that facility to support repayment of amounts outstanding. in the event such transferred receivables are insufficient to support such outstanding amounts, we will be required to make prepayments under the receivables financing agreement. failure to make such prepayments or violations of the covenants in the receivables financing agreement could cause an event of default under the receivables financing agreement. if we default on our senior secured credit agreement or our receivables financing agreement as a result of our failure to pay principal or interest when due, our material breach of any representation, warranty or covenant, or any other reason, all outstanding amounts could become immediately due and payable under either or both of such agreements. in such case, we may not have sufficient funds to repay all the outstanding amounts. in addition, or in the alternative, the lenders under our senior secured credit agreement could exercise their rights under the security documents entered into in connection with the senior secured credit agreement. any acceleration of amounts due under the credit agreement governing our outstanding indebtedness or the substantial exercise by the lenders under our senior secured credit agreement of their rights under the security documents would likely have a material adverse effect on us. interest rate fluctuations may affect our results of operations and financial condition. because we have variable rate debt, fluctuations in interest rates affect our business. we attempt to minimize interest rate risk and lower our overall borrowing costs through the utilization of derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate swaps. we have entered into interest rate swaps with financial institutions that have reset dates and critical terms that match those of our senior secured term loan credit facility. accordingly, any change in market value associated with the interest rate swaps is offset by the opposite market impact on the related debt. as of december 31, 2014, we had approximately $2.0 billion of total indebtedness with variable interest at the greater of the three month libor or 1.25%, plus 2.50%, or 3.75% at december 31, 2014, of which $910.0 million, or 44.8%, was hedged at a fixed rate of 2.57%, leaving approximately $1.1 billion of unhedged variable rate debt. as of december 31, 2014, we also had $275.0 million of total indebtedness under our receivables financing facility with variable interest at libor plus 1.05%, or 1.22% at december 31, 2014. because we do not attempt to hedge all of our variable rate debt, we may incur higher interest costs for the 35 portion of our variable rate debt which is not hedged. each quarter-point increase or decrease in the variable interest rate would result in our interest expense changing by approximately $3.5 million per year under our unhedged variable rate debt. risks relating to ownership of our common stock although we are no longer a controlled company within the meaning of the nyse rules, we are relying on exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements during a one year transition period. we are no longer a controlled company within the meaning of the corporate governance standards contained in section 303a of the nyse listed company manual. consequently, as of november 10, 2014 the nyse rules require that we: appoint at least a majority of independent directors to our compensation and nominating and governance committees within 90 days; appoint a majority of independent directors to our board within one year; and appoint compensation and nominating and governance committees composed entirely of independent directors within one year. we intend to utilize the transition periods described above to achieve full compliance with these nyse requirements. as a result, at this time, we do not have a majority of independent directors, and our compensation and nominating and governance committees do not consist entirely of independent directors. accordingly, you do not, and during these transition periods you will not, have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the nyse. in addition, if we are unable to comply with the heightened corporate governance requirements prior to the prescribed nyse deadlines, we may incur penalties or our shares could be delisted. provisions of our corporate governance documents could make an acquisition of our company more difficult and may prevent attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management, even if beneficial to our shareholders. provisions of our articles of incorporation and our bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company that shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. these provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. in addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove members of our board. because our board is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn frustrate or prevent any attempt to replace or remove current members of our management team. among others, these provisions include (1) our ability to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval, (2) the requirement that our shareholders may not act without a meeting, (3) requirements for advance notification of shareholder nominations and proposals contained in our bylaws, (4) the absence of cumulative voting for our directors, (5) requirements for shareholder approval of certain business combinations and (6) the limitations on director nominations contained in our shareholders agreement. our operating results and share price may be volatile, which could cause the value of our shareholders investments to decline. our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate in the future, and such fluctuations may be significant. in addition, securities markets worldwide have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, significant price and volume fluctuations. this market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could subject the market price of our shares to wide price fluctuations regardless of our operating performance. our operating results and the trading price of our shares may fluctuate in response to various factors, including: market conditions in the broader stock market; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual financial and operating results; 36 introduction of new products or services by us or our competitors; issuance of new or changed securities analysts reports or recommendations; sales, or anticipated sales, of large blocks of our stock; additions or departures of key personnel; regulatory or political developments; litigation and governmental investigations; changing economic conditions; and exchange rate fluctuations. these and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause our operating results and the market price for our shares to fluctuate substantially. while we believe that operating results for any particular quarter are not necessarily a meaningful indication of future results, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares and may otherwise negatively affect the market price and liquidity of our shares. in addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. if any of our shareholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management from our business, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation. there may be sales of a substantial amount of our common stock by our current shareholders, and these sales could cause the price of our common stock to fall. as of february 5, 2015, there were 124,315,113 shares of common stock outstanding. approximately 41.5% of our outstanding common stock is held by parties to the shareholders agreement. sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales will occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and make it difficult for us to raise funds through securities offerings in the future. shareholders that are a party to an amended and restated registration rights agreement, or the registration rights agreement, may require us to register their shares for resale under the federal securities laws. under the registration rights agreement, we are required to pay the registration expenses associated with the registration of such shares, not including the underwriting discounts, commissions and transfer taxes. registration of those shares would allow those shareholders to immediately resell their shares in the public market. any such sales or the anticipation of such sales may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. since we have no current plans to pay regular cash dividends on our common stock, shareholders may not receive any return on investment unless they sell their common stock for a price greater than that which they paid for it. although we have previously declared dividends to our shareholders, we do not currently anticipate paying any regular cash dividends on our common stock. any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors that our board may deem relevant. in addition, our ability to pay dividends is, and may be, limited by covenants of existing and any future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur, including under our existing credit facilities. therefore, any return on investment in our common stock is solely dependent upon the appreciation of the price of our common stock on the open market, which may not occur. see part ii, item 5 market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities policy for more detail. 37 the parties to the shareholders agreement have significant influence over us, including decisions that require the approval of our shareholders, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of matters submitted to shareholders for a vote. the parties to the shareholders agreement own approximately 41.5% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. among other things, the shareholders agreement requires such shareholders to vote in favor of certain nominees to our board. as a result, this group potentially has the ability to influence, or in some situations, possibly control our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction (and the terms thereof) and the ability to prevent any change in the composition of our board and any transaction that requires shareholder approval regardless of whether others believe that such change or transaction is in our best interests. additionally, the parties to the shareholders agreement are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. one or more of the parties to the shareholders agreement may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. so long as the parties to the shareholders agreement continue to own a significant amount of our equity, if they exercise their shareholder rights collectively, they will be able to significantly influence our decisions. our amended and restated articles of incorporation contain a provision renouncing any interest and expectancy in certain corporate opportunities identified by certain of our affiliates, even if such corporate opportunities are ones that we might reasonably be deemed to have pursued or had the ability or desire to pursue. our amended and restated articles of incorporation provide for the allocation of certain corporate opportunities between us, on the one hand, and certain of our shareholders, on the other hand. as set forth in our amended and restated articles of incorporation, neither such shareholders, nor any director, officer, shareholder, member, manager, or employee of such shareholders, have any fiduciary duty or any other duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. to the full extent permitted by applicable law, we have renounced any interest or expectancy in, or in being offered an opportunity to participate in, business opportunities that are from time to time presented to certain of our shareholders, even if the opportunity is one that we might reasonably deem to have pursued or had the ability or desire to pursue, if granted, the opportunity to do so, and each such shareholders shall have no duty to communicate or offer such business opportunity to us and, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, shall not be liable to us or, to the extent applicable, any of its or their shareholders, for breach of any fiduciary or other duty, as a director or officer or otherwise, by reason of the fact that such shareholders pursues or acquires such business opportunity, directs such business opportunity to another person or fails to present such business opportunity, or information regarding such business opportunity, to us. therefore, a director or officer of our company who also serves as a director, officer, member, manager, or employee of such shareholders may pursue certain business opportunities, including acquisitions, that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, such opportunities may not be available to us. these potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or prospects if attractive corporate opportunities are allocated by such shareholders to themselves or their other affiliates instead of to us. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and other relevant market rate or price changes. in the ordinary course of business, we are exposed to various market risks, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and equity price changes, and we regularly evaluate our exposure to such changes. our overall risk management strategy seeks to balance the magnitude of the exposure and the cost and availability of appropriate financial instruments. from time to time, we have utilized forward exchange contracts to manage our foreign currency exchange rate risk. the following analyses present the sensitivity of our financial instruments to hypothetical changes in interest rates and equity prices that are reasonably possible over a one-year period. foreign currency exchange rates approximately 38% of our service revenues for both years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013 were denominated in currencies other than the united states dollar. our financial statements are reported in united 65 states dollars and, accordingly, fluctuations in exchange rates will affect the translation of our revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies into united states dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated financial results. in 2014 and 2013, the most significant currency exchange rate exposures were the euro, british pound, singapore dollar and indian rupee. excluding the impacts from any outstanding or future hedging transactions, a hypothetical change of 10% in average exchange rates used to translate all foreign currencies to united states dollars would have impacted income before income taxes for 2014 by approximately $40.5 million. accumulated currency translation adjustments recorded as a separate component of shareholders deficit were ($55.7) million and ($5.8) million at december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. we do not have significant operations in countries in which the economy is considered to be highly-inflationary. we are subject to foreign currency transaction risk for fluctuations in exchange rates during the period of time between the consummation and cash settlement of a transaction. we earn revenue from our service contracts over a period of several months and, in some cases, over a period of several years. accordingly, exchange rate fluctuations during this period may affect our profitability with respect to such contracts. we limit our foreign currency transaction risk through exchange rate fluctuation provisions stated in our contracts with customers, or we may hedge our transaction risk with foreign currency exchange contracts. at december 31, 2014, we had 13 open foreign exchange forward contracts relating to service contracts with various amounts maturing monthly through september 2015 with a notional value totaling approximately $76.0 million. at december 31, 2013, we had 12 open foreign exchange forward contracts relating to service contracts with various amounts maturing monthly through september 2014 with a notional value totaling approximately $60.8 million. interest rates because we have variable rate debt, fluctuations in interest rates affect our business. we attempt to minimize interest rate risk and lower our overall borrowing costs through the utilization of derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate swaps. we have entered into interest rate swaps with financial institutions that have reset dates and critical terms that match those of our term loan credit facility. accordingly, any change in market value associated with the interest rate swaps is offset by the opposite market impact on the related debt. as of december 31, 2014, we had approximately $2.0 billion of total indebtedness with variable interest at the greater of the three month libor or 1.25%, plus 2.50%, or 3.75% at december 31, 2014, of which $910.0 million, or 44.8%, was hedged at a fixed rate of 2.57%, leaving approximately $1.1 billion of unhedged variable rate debt. as of december 31, 2014, we also had $275.0 million of total indebtedness under our receivables financing facility with variable interest at libor plus 1.05%, or 1.22% at december 31, 2014. because we do not attempt to hedge all of our variable rate debt, we may incur higher interest costs for the portion of our variable rate debt which is not hedged. each quarter-point increase or decrease in the variable interest rate would result in our interest expense changing by approximately $3.5 million per year under our unhedged variable rate debt. equity prices at december 31, 2014 and 2013, we held investments in marketable equity securities. these investments are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded at fair value in the financial statements. these securities are subject to equity price risk. as of december 31, 2014 and 2013, the fair value of these investments was $831,000 and $7.7 million, respectively, based on quoted equity prices. the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical decrease of 10% in quoted equity price was approximately $83,000 and $767,000 at december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 66risk factors risk factors we operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. you should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below together with the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k, in evaluating our company. the occurrence of any of the following risks may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. risks relating to our business the potential loss or delay of our large contracts or of multiple contracts could adversely affect our results. most of our research &amp; development solutions clients can terminate our contracts upon 30 to 90 days notice. our clients may delay, terminate or reduce the scope of our contracts for a variety of reasons beyond our control, including but not limited to: decisions to forego or terminate a particular clinical trial; lack of available financing, budgetary limits or changing priorities; actions by regulatory authorities; production problems resulting in shortages of the drug being tested; failure of products being tested to satisfy safety requirements or efficacy criteria; unexpected or undesired clinical results for products; insufficient patient enrollment in a clinical trial; insufficient investigator recruitment; shift of business to a competitor or internal resources; product withdrawal following market launch; or shut down of manufacturing facilities. as a result, contract terminations, delays and alterations are a regular part of our research &amp; development solutions business. in the event of termination, our contracts often provide for fees for winding down the project, but these fees may not be sufficient for us to maintain our margins, and termination may result in lower resource utilization rates. in addition, we may not realize the full benefits of our backlog of contractually committed services if our clients cancel, delay or reduce their commitments under our contracts with them, which may occur if, among other things, a client decides to shift its business to a competitor or revoke our status as a preferred provider. thus, the loss or delay of a large contract or the loss or delay of multiple contracts could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. we believe the risk of loss or delay of multiple contracts potentially has greater effect where we are party to broader partnering arrangements with global biopharmaceutical companies. 17 table of contents we depend on third parties for data and support services. our suppliers or providers might restrict our use of or refuse to license data or provide services, which could lead to our inability to access certain data or provide certain services and, as a result, materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. each of our commercial solutions information services is derived from data we collect from third parties. these data suppliers are numerous and diverse, reflecting the broad scope of information that we collect and use in our business. although we typically enter into long-term contractual arrangements with many of these suppliers of data, at the time of entry into a new contract or renewal of an existing contract, suppliers may increase restrictions on our use of such data, increase the price they charge us for data or refuse altogether to license the data to us. in addition, during the term of any data supply contract, suppliers may fail to adhere to our data quality control standards or fail to deliver data. further, although no single individual data supplier is material to our business, if a number of suppliers collectively representing a significant amount of data that we use for one or more of our services were to impose additional contractual restrictions on our use of or access to data, fail to adhere to our quality-control standards, repeatedly fail to deliver data or refuse to provide data, now or in the future, our ability to provide those services to our clients could be materially adversely impacted, which may harm our operating results and financial condition. additionally, we depend on third parties for support services to our business. such support services include, but are not limited to, third-party transportation providers, suppliers of drugs for patients participating in clinical trials, suppliers of kits for use in our clinical trial laboratories business, suppliers of reagents for use in our testing equipment and providers of maintenance contracts for our equipment. the failure of any of these third parties to adequately provide the critical support services could have a material adverse effect on our business. if we fail to perform our services in accordance with contractual requirements, regulatory standards and ethical considerations, we could be subject to significant costs or liability and our reputation could be harmed. in connection with our research &amp; development solutions business, we contract with biopharmaceutical companies to perform a wide range of services to assist them in bringing new drugs to market. our services include monitoring clinical trials, data and laboratory analysis, electronic data capture, patient recruitment and other related services. such services are complex and subject to contractual requirements, regulatory standards and ethical considerations. for example, we must adhere to regulatory requirements such as the fda and current gcp, good laboratory practice and good manufacturing practice requirements. if we fail to perform our services in accordance with these requirements, regulatory agencies may take action against us for failure to comply with applicable regulations governing clinical trials or sales and marketing practices. such actions may include sanctions, such as injunctions or failure of such regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of products, delay, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, product seizures or recalls, operational restrictions, civil or criminal penalties or prosecutions, damages or fines. clients may also bring claims against us for breach of our contractual obligations and patients in the clinical trials and patients taking drugs approved on the basis of those clinical trials may bring personal injury claims against us for negligence. any such action could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and reputation. such consequences could arise if, among other things, the following occur: improper performance of our services. the performance of clinical development services is complex and time-consuming. for example, we may make mistakes in conducting a clinical trial that could negatively impact 18 table of contents or obviate the usefulness of the clinical trial or cause the results of the clinical trial to be reported improperly. if the clinical trial results are compromised, we could be subject to significant costs or liability, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to perform our services. as examples: non-compliance generally could result in the termination of ongoing clinical trials or sales and marketing projects or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities; compromise of data from a particular clinical trial, such as failure to verify that informed consent was obtained from patients, could require us to repeat the clinical trial under the terms of our contract at no further cost to our client, but at a substantial cost to us; and breach of a contractual term could result in liability for damages or termination of the contract. large clinical trials can cost up to hundreds of millions of dollars, and while we endeavor to contractually limit our exposure to such risks, improper performance of our services could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, damage our reputation and result in the cancellation of current contracts by or failure to obtain future contracts from the affected client or other clients. investigation of clients. from time to time, one or more of our clients are audited or investigated by regulatory authorities or enforcement agencies with respect to regulatory compliance of their clinical trials, programs or the marketing and sale of their drugs. in these situations, we have often provided services to our clients with respect to the clinical trials, programs or activities being audited or investigated, and we are called upon to respond to requests for information by the authorities and agencies. there is a risk that either our clients or regulatory authorities could claim that we performed our services improperly or that we are responsible for clinical trial or program compliance. if our clients or regulatory authorities make such claims against us and prove them, we could be subject to damages, fines or penalties. in addition, negative publicity regarding regulatory compliance of our clients clinical trials, programs or drugs could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. insufficient client funding to complete a clinical trial. as noted above, clinical trials can cost hundreds of millions of dollars. there is a risk that we may initiate a clinical trial for a client, and then the client becomes unwilling or unable to fund the completion of the clinical trial. in such a situation, notwithstanding the client ability or willingness to pay for or otherwise facilitate the completion of the clinical trial, we may be ethically bound to complete or wind down the clinical trial at our own expense. security breaches and unauthorized use of our it systems and information, or the it systems or information in the possession of our vendors, could expose us, our clients, our data suppliers or others to risk of loss. we rely upon the security of our computer and communications systems infrastructure to protect us from cyberattacks and unauthorized access. cyberattacks can include malware, computer viruses, hacking or other significant disruption of our computer, communications and related systems. although we take steps to manage and avoid these risks and to prevent their recurrence, our preventive and remedial actions may not be successful. such attacks, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in our incurring costs related to, for example, rebuilding internal systems, defending against litigation, responding to regulatory inquiries or actions, paying damages or fines, or taking other remedial steps with respect to third parties. publicity about vulnerabilities and attempted or successful incursions could damage our reputation with clients and data suppliers and reduce demand for our services. we also store proprietary and sensitive information in connection with our business, which could be compromised by a cyberattack. to the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data, an inappropriate disclosure of proprietary or sensitive information, an inability to access data sources, or an inability to process data or provide our offerings to our clients, it could cause significant damage to our 19 table of contents reputation, affect our relationships with our data suppliers and clients (including loss of suppliers and clients), lead to claims against us and ultimately harm our business. we may be required to incur significant costs to alleviate, remedy or protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. we may also face inquiry or increased scrutiny from government agencies as a result of any such disruption or breach. while we have insurance coverage for certain instances of a cyber security breach, our coverage may not be sufficient if we suffer a significant attack or multiple attacks. any such breach or disruption could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and our reputation as a provider of mission-critical services. some of our vendors have significant responsibility for the security of certain of our data centers and computer-based platforms. also, our data suppliers have responsibility for security of their own computer and communications environments. these third parties face risks relating to cyber security similar to ours, which could disrupt their businesses and therefore materially impact ours. accordingly, we are subject to any flaw in or breaches to their computer and communications systems or those that they operate for us, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial results. failure to meet productivity objectives under our internal business transformation initiatives could adversely impact our competitiveness and harm our operating results. we are pursuing business transformation initiatives to update technology, increase innovation and obtain operating efficiencies. as part of these initiatives, we seek to improve our productivity, flexibility, quality, functionality and cost savings by investing in the development and implementation of global platforms and integration of our business processes and functions to achieve economies of scale. for example, we hired and trained more than 500 people to form a center of excellence ( coe ) in manila, the philippines for standardizing and cleaning data received from data suppliers, developed updated tools for standardizing and cleaning data, are moving local standardizing and cleaning from countries around the world to the manila coe, and retired local standardizing and cleaning systems. these various initiatives may not yield their intended gains, which may impact our competitiveness and our ability to meet our growth objectives and, as a result, materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. if we are unsuccessful at investing in growth opportunities, our business could be materially and adversely affected. we continue to invest significantly in growth opportunities, including the development and acquisition of new data, technologies and services to meet our clients needs. for example, we are expanding our services and technology offerings, such as the development of a cloud-based platform with a growing number of applications to support commercial operations for life sciences companies (e.g., multi-channel marketing, marketing campaign management, customer relationship management, incentive compensation management, targeting and segmentation, performance management and other applications). we also continue to invest significantly in growth opportunities in emerging markets, such as the development, launch and enhancement of services in china, india, russia, turkey and other countries. we believe healthcare spending in these emerging markets will continue to grow over the next five years, and we consider our presence in these markets to be an important focus of our growth strategy. there is no assurance that our investment plans or growth strategy will be successful or will produce a sufficient or any return on our investments. further, if we are unable to develop new technologies and services, clients do not purchase our new technologies and services, our new technologies and services do not work as intended or there are delays in the availability or adoption of our new technologies and services, then we may not be able to grow our business or growth may occur slower than anticipated. additionally, although we expect continued growth in healthcare spending in emerging markets, such spending may occur more slowly or not at all, and we may not benefit from our investments in these markets. 20 table of contents we plan to fund growth opportunities with cash from operations or from future financings. there can be no assurance that those sources will be available in sufficient amounts to fund future growth opportunities when needed. any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. data protection, privacy and similar laws restrict access, use and disclosure of information, and failure to comply with or adapt to changes in these laws could materially and adversely harm our business. patient health information is among the most sensitive of personal information and it is critical that information about an individual healthcare is properly protected from inappropriate access, use and disclosure. laws restricting access, use and disclosure of such information include the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 ( hipaa ), the european union ( eu ) data protection directive (which will be superseded by the general data protection regulation), canada personal information protection and electronic documents act and other data protection, privacy and similar national, state/provincial and local laws. we have established frameworks, models, processes and technologies to manage privacy for many data types, from a variety of sources, and under myriad privacy and data protection laws worldwide. in addition, we rely on our data suppliers to deliver information to us in a form and in a manner that complies with applicable privacy and data protection laws. these laws are complex and there is no assurance that the safeguards and controls employed by us or our data suppliers will be sufficient to prevent a breach of these laws, or that claims will not be filed against us or our data suppliers despite such safeguards and controls. for example, in february 2014, a group of individuals filed a civil lawsuit in korea against ims health korea ltd., our wholly-owned subsidiary ( ims korea ), the korean pharmaceutical association ( kpa ), and a kpa affiliate that supplies data to ims korea. the lawsuit alleges the kpa affiliate collected plaintiffs personal information without the necessary consent in violation of applicable privacy laws and transferred such information to ims korea for sale to clients. in addition, in july 2015, indictments were issued by the seoul central district prosecutors office in south korea against ims korea and two of its employees, among others, alleging improper handling of sensitive health information in violation of applicable privacy laws. alleged or actual failure to comply with such laws may result in, among other things, negative publicity, damage to our reputation, civil and criminal liability, data being blocked from use or liability under contractual provisions. laws and expectations relating to privacy continue to evolve, and we continue to adapt to changing needs. nevertheless, changes in these laws (including newly released interpretations of these laws by courts and regulatory bodies) may limit our data access, use and disclosure, and may require increased expenditures by us or may dictate that we not offer certain types of services. any of the foregoing may have a material adverse impact on our ability to provide services to our clients or maintain our profitability. there is ongoing concern from privacy advocates, regulators and others regarding data protection and privacy issues, and the number of jurisdictions with data protection and privacy laws has been increasing. also, there are ongoing public policy discussions regarding whether the standards for de-identified, anonymous or pseudonomized health information are sufficient, and the risk of re-identification sufficiently small, to adequately protect patient privacy. these discussions may lead to further restrictions on the use of such information. there can be no assurance that these initiatives or future initiatives will not adversely affect our ability to access and use data or to develop or market current or future services. data protection, privacy and similar laws protect more than patient information, and although they vary by jurisdiction, these laws can extend to employee information, business contact information, provider information and other information relating to identifiable individuals. failure to comply with these laws may result in, among other things, civil and criminal liability, negative publicity, damage to our reputation and liability under contractual provisions. in addition, compliance with such laws may require increased costs to us or may dictate that we not offer certain types of services. 21 table of contents the occurrence of any of the foregoing could impact our ability to provide the same level of service to our clients, require us to modify our offerings or increase our costs, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. current and proposed laws and regulations regarding the protection of personal data could result in increased risks of liability or increased cost to us or could limit our service offerings. the confidentiality, collection, use and disclosure of personal data, including clinical trial patient-specific information, are subject to governmental regulation generally in the country that the personal data were collected or used. for example, united states federal regulations under health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 ( hipaa ) and as amended in 2014 by the health information technology for economic and clinical health ( hitech ) act, require individuals written authorization, in addition to any required informed consent, before protected health information may be used for research. we are both directly and indirectly affected by the privacy provisions surrounding individual authorizations because many investigators with whom we are involved in clinical trials are directly subject to them as a hipaa covered entity and because we obtain identifiable health information from third parties that are subject to such regulations. as there are some instances where we are a hipaa business associate of a covered entity, we can also be directly liable for mishandling protected health information. under hipaa enforcement scheme, we can be subject to up to $1.5 million in annual civil penalties for each hipaa violation. in the eu personal data includes any information that relates to an identified or identifiable natural person with health information carrying additional obligations, including obtaining the explicit consent from the individual for collection, use or disclosure of the information. in addition, we are subject to eu rules with respect to cross-border transfers of such data out of the eu. the united states, the eu and its member states, and other countries where we have operations, such as japan, south korea, malaysia, the philippines, russia and singapore, continue to issue new privacy and data protection rules and regulations that relate to personal data and health information. failure to comply with certain certification/registration and annual re-certification/registration provisions associated with these data protection and privacy regulations and rules in various jurisdictions, or to resolve any serious privacy complaints, could subject us to regulatory sanctions, criminal prosecution or civil liability. federal, state and foreign governments are contemplating or have proposed or adopted additional legislation governing the collection, possession, use or dissemination of personal data, such as personal health information, and personal financial data as well as security breach notification rules for loss or theft of such data. additional legislation or regulation of this type might, among other things, require us to implement new security measures and processes or bring within the legislation other personal data, each of which may require substantial expenditures or limit our ability to offer some of our services. additionally, if we violate applicable laws, regulations or duties relating to the use, privacy or security of personal data, we could be subject to civil liability or criminal prosecution, be forced to alter our business practices and suffer reputational harm. our success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to develop, use and protect our proprietary methodologies, analytics, systems, technologies and other intellectual property. existing laws of the various countries in which we provide services or solutions offer only limited protection of our intellectual property rights, and the protection in some countries may be very limited. we rely upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, nondisclosure, invention assignment and other contractual arrangements, and patent, copyright and trademark laws, to protect our intellectual property rights. these laws are subject to change at any time and certain agreements may not be fully enforceable, which could further restrict our ability to protect our innovations. our intellectual property rights may not prevent competitors from independently developing services similar to or duplicative of ours. further, the steps we take in this regard might not be adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation of our intellectual property by competitors, former employees or other third parties, and we might not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. 22 table of contents our ability to obtain, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights is subject to general litigation or third-party opposition risks, as well as the uncertainty as to the scope of protection, registrability, patentability, validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights in each applicable country. governments may adopt regulations, and government agencies or courts may render decisions, requiring compulsory licensing of intellectual property rights. when we seek to enforce our intellectual property rights we may be subject to claims that the intellectual property rights are invalid or unenforceable. litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights and to protect our confidential and proprietary information. litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property rights. furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. our inability to protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use, as well as any costly litigation or diversion of our management attention and resources, could delay further sales or the implementation of our solutions, impair the functionality of our solutions, delay introductions of new solutions, result in our substituting inferior or more costly technologies into our solutions, or injure our reputation and harm our operating results and financial condition. depending on the circumstances, we might need to grant a specific client greater rights in intellectual property developed in connection with a contract than we otherwise generally do. in certain situations, we might forego all rights to the use of intellectual property we create, which would limit our ability to reuse that intellectual property for other clients. any limitation on our ability to provide a service or solution could cause us to lose revenue-generating opportunities and require us to incur additional expenses to develop or license new or modified solutions for future projects. the theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information could reduce the differentiation of our services and harm our business; the value of our investment in development or business acquisitions could be reduced; and third parties might make claims against us related to losses of their confidential or proprietary information. in addition, we may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of our proprietary rights. third parties that license our proprietary rights also may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or reputation. the protection of our intellectual property may require the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. moreover, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may not adequately protect our rights or prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our proprietary rights. these incidents and claims could harm our business, reduce revenue, increase expenses and harm our reputation. we may be subject to claims by others that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights. third parties may assert claims that we or our clients infringe their intellectual property rights and these claims, with or without merit, could be expensive to litigate, cause us to incur substantial costs and divert management resources and attention in defending the claim. in some jurisdictions, plaintiffs can also seek injunctive relief that may limit the operation of our business or prevent the marketing and selling of our services that infringe on the plaintiff intellectual property rights. to resolve these claims, we may enter into licensing agreements with restrictive terms or significant fees, stop selling, be required to implement costly redesigns to the affected services, or pay damages to satisfy contractual obligations to others. if we do not resolve these claims in advance of a trial, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in court. these outcomes may have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. in addition, certain contracts with our suppliers or clients contain provisions whereby we indemnify, subject to certain limitations, the counterparty for damages suffered as a result of claims related to intellectual property infringement and the use of our data. claims made under these provisions could be expensive to litigate and could result in significant payments. 23 table of contents we rely on licenses from third parties to certain technology and intellectual property rights for some of our services and the licenses we currently have could terminate or expire. some of our commercial solutions services rely on technology or intellectual property rights owned and controlled by others. our licenses to this technology or these intellectual property rights could be terminated or could expire. we may be unable to replace these licenses in a timely manner. failure to renew these licenses, or renewals of these licenses on less advantageous terms, could harm our operating results and financial condition. our financial results may be adversely affected if we underprice our contracts, overrun our cost estimates or fail to receive approval for or experience delays in documenting change orders. most of our research &amp; development solutions contracts are either fee for service contracts or fixed-fee contracts. our past financial results have been, and our future financial results may be, adversely impacted if we initially underprice our contracts or otherwise overrun our cost estimates and are unable to successfully negotiate a change order. change orders typically occur when the scope of work we perform needs to be modified from that originally contemplated by our contract with the client. modifications can occur, for example, when there is a change in a key clinical trial assumption or parameter or a significant change in timing. where we are not successful in converting out-of-scope work into change orders under our current contracts, we bear the cost of the additional work. such underpricing, significant cost overruns or delay in documentation of change orders could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. the relationship of backlog to revenues varies over time. backlog, on an as-contracted basis, represents future revenues for our research &amp; development solutions business from work not yet completed or performed under signed binding commitments and signed contracts. once work begins on a project, revenue is recognized over the duration of the project. projects may be terminated or delayed by the client or delayed by regulatory authorities for reasons beyond our control. to the extent projects are delayed, the timing of our revenue could be affected. in the event that a client cancels a contract, we typically would be entitled to receive payment for all services performed up to the cancellation date and subsequent client-authorized services related to terminating the canceled project. typically, however, we have no contractual right to the full amount of the revenue reflected in our backlog in the event of a contract cancellation. the duration of the projects included in our backlog, and the related revenue recognition, range from a few weeks to many years. our backlog may not be indicative of our future revenues from our research &amp; development solutions business, and we may not realize all the anticipated future revenue reflected in our backlog. a number of factors may affect backlog, including: the size, complexity and duration of the projects; the cancellation or delay of projects; and change in the scope of work during the course of a project. although an increase in backlog will generally result in an increase in revenues to be recognized over time (depending on the level of cancellations), an increase in backlog at a particular point in time does not necessarily correspond directly to an increase in revenues during a particular period. computing backlog on an as-contracted basis rather than an as awarded basis may result in additions to the backlog later in the sales cycle than using the as awarded basis and may result in different rates of conversion from backlog to revenue than experienced using the as awarded basis. the extent to which contracts in backlog will result in revenue depends on many factors, including but not limited to delivery against projected schedules, the need for scope changes (change orders), contract cancellations and the nature, duration, size, complexity and phase of the contracts, each of which factors can vary significantly from time to time. the rate at which our backlog converts to revenue may vary over time for a variety of reasons. the revenue recognition on larger, more global projects could be slower than on smaller, less global projects for a variety of 24 table of contents reasons, including but not limited to an extended period of negotiation between the time the project is awarded to us and the actual execution of the contract, as well as an increased timeframe for obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals. additionally, the increased complexity of clinical trials and the need to enroll precise patient populations could extend the length of clinical trials causing revenue to be recognized over a longer period of time. further, delayed projects will remain in backlog, unless otherwise canceled by the client, and will not generate revenue at the rate originally expected. thus, the relationship of backlog to realized revenues may vary over time. our business depends on the continued effectiveness and availability of our information systems, including the information systems we use to provide our services to our clients, and failures of these systems may materially limit our operations. due to the global nature of our business and our reliance on information systems to provide our services, we intend to increase our use of web-enabled and other integrated information systems in delivering our services. we also provide access to similar information systems to certain of our clients in connection with the services we provide them. as the breadth and complexity of our information systems continue to grow, we will increasingly be exposed to the risks inherent in the development, integration and ongoing operation of evolving information systems, including: disruption, impairment or failure of data centers, telecommunications facilities or other key infrastructure platforms; security breaches of, cyberattacks on and other failures or malfunctions in our critical application systems or their associated hardware; and excessive costs, excessive delays or other deficiencies in systems development and deployment. the materialization of any of these risks may impede the processing of data, the delivery of databases and services, and the day-to-day management of our business and could result in the corruption, loss or unauthorized disclosure of proprietary, confidential or other data. while we have disaster recovery plans in place, they might not adequately protect us in the event of a system failure. while many of our operations have disaster recovery plans in place, we currently do not have excess or standby computer processing or network capacity everywhere in the world to avoid disruption in the receipt, processing and delivery of data in the event of a system failure. despite any precautions we take, damage from fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, break-ins and similar events at our various computer facilities could result in interruptions in the flow of data to our servers and from our servers to our clients. corruption or loss of data may result in the need to repeat a clinical trial at no cost to the client, but at significant cost to us, the termination of a contract or damage to our reputation. in addition, any failure by our computer environment to provide sufficient processing or network capacity to transfer data could result in interruptions in our service. in the event of a delay in the delivery of data, we could be required to transfer our data collection operations to an alternative provider of server hosting services. such a transfer could result in significant delays in our ability to deliver services to our clients, and increase our costs. additionally, significant delays in system enhancements or inadequate performance of new or upgraded systems once completed could damage our reputation and harm our business. finally, long-term disruptions in the infrastructure caused by events such as natural disasters, the outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities and acts of terrorism, particularly involving cities in which we have offices, could adversely affect our businesses. although we carry property and business interruption insurance, our coverage might not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. we have continued to undertake significant programs to optimize business processes with respect to our services. our inability to effectively manage the implementation and adapt to new processes designed into new or upgraded systems in a timely and cost-effective manner may result in disruption to our business and negatively affect our operations. 25 table of contents we have entered into agreements with certain vendors to provide systems development and integration services that develop or license to us the it platform for programs to optimize our business processes. if such vendors fail to perform as required or if there are substantial delays in developing, implementing and updating the it platform, our client delivery may be impaired, and we may have to make substantial further investments, internally or with third parties, to achieve our objectives. additionally, our progress may be limited by parties with existing or claimed patents who seek to enjoin us from using preferred technology or seek license payments from us. meeting our objectives is dependent on a number of factors which may not take place as we anticipate, including obtaining adequate technology-enabled services, creating it-enabled services that our clients will find desirable and implementing our business model with respect to these services. also, increased it-related expenditures may negatively impact our profitability. we may experience challenges with the acquisition, development, enhancement or deployment of technology necessary for our business. we operate in businesses that require sophisticated computer systems and software for data collection, data processing, cloud-based platforms, analytics, cryptography, statistical projections and forecasting, mobile computing, social media analytics and other applications and technologies, particularly our commercial solutions business. we seek to address our technology risks by increasing our reliance on the use of innovations by cross-industry technology leaders and adapt these for our biopharmaceutical and healthcare industry clients. some of these technologies supporting the industries we serve are changing rapidly and we must continue to adapt to these changes in a timely and effective manner at an acceptable cost. we also must continue to deliver data to our clients in forms that are easy to use while simultaneously providing clear answers to complex questions. there can be no guarantee that we will be able to develop, acquire or integrate new technologies, that these new technologies will meet our clients needs or achieve expected investment goals, or that we will be able to do so as quickly or cost-effectively as our competitors. significant technological change could render our services obsolete. moreover, the introduction of new services embodying new technologies could render existing services obsolete. our continued success will depend on our ability to adapt to changing technologies, manage and process ever-increasing amounts of data and information and improve the performance, features and reliability of our services in response to changing client and industry demands. we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful design, development, testing, introduction or marketing of our services. new services, or enhancements to existing services, may not adequately meet the requirements of current and prospective clients or achieve any degree of significant market acceptance. any of these failures could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. consolidation in the industries in which our clients operate may reduce the volume of services purchased by consolidated clients following an acquisition or merger, which could materially harm our operating results and financial condition. mergers or consolidations among our clients have in the past and could in the future reduce the number of our clients and potential clients. when companies consolidate, overlapping services previously purchased separately are usually purchased only once by the combined entity, leading to loss of revenue. other services that were previously purchased by one of the merged or consolidated entities may be deemed unnecessary or cancelled. if our clients merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. there can be no assurance as to the degree to which we may be able to address the revenue impact of such consolidation. any of these developments could materially harm our operating results and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by client or therapeutic concentration. although we did not have any client that represented 10% or more of our revenues in 2016, 2015 and 2014, we derive the majority of our revenues from a number of large clients. if any large client decreases or terminates its relationship with us, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 26 table of contents additionally, conducting multiple clinical trials for different clients in a single therapeutic class involving drugs with the same or similar chemical action has in the past and may in the future adversely affect our business if some or all of the clinical trials are canceled because of new scientific information or regulatory judgments that affect the drugs as a class or if industry consolidation results in the rationalization of drug development pipelines. similarly, marketing and selling drugs for different biopharmaceutical companies with similar chemical actions subjects us to risk if new scientific information or regulatory judgment prejudices the drugs as a class, which may lead to compelled or voluntary prescription limitations or withdrawal of some or all of such drugs from the market. our business is subject to international economic, political and other risks that could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. we have significant operations in countries that may require complex arrangements to deliver services throughout the world for our clients. additionally, we have established operations in locations remote from our most developed business centers. as a result, we are subject to heightened risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including the following: required compliance with a variety of local laws and regulations which may be materially different than those to which we are subject in the united states or which may change unexpectedly; for example, conducting a single clinical trial across multiple countries is complex, and issues in one country, such as a failure to comply with local regulations or restrictions, may affect the progress of the clinical trial in the other countries, for example, by limiting the amount of data necessary for a clinical trial to proceed, resulting in delays or potential cancellation of contracts, which in turn may result in loss of revenue; the united states or foreign countries could enact legislation or impose regulations or other restrictions, including unfavorable labor regulations, tax policies or economic sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business in or expatriate profits from the countries in which we operate, including hiring, retaining and overseeing qualified management personnel for managing operations in multiple countries, differing employment practices and labor issues, and tax-related risks, including the imposition of taxes and the lack of beneficial treaties, that result in a higher effective tax rate for us; foreign countries are expanding or may expand their regulatory framework with respect to patient informed consent, protection and compensation in clinical trials, which could delay or inhibit our ability to conduct clinical trials in such jurisdictions; the regulatory or judicial authorities of foreign countries may not enforce legal rights and recognize business procedures in a manner in which we are accustomed or would reasonably expect; local, economic, political and social conditions, including potential hyperinflationary conditions, political instability, and potential nationalization, repatriation, expropriation, price controls or other restrictive government actions, including changes in political and economic conditions may lead to changes in the business environment in which we operate, as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates; immigration laws are subject to legislative change and varying standards of application and enforcement due to political forces, economic conditions or other events and local immigration laws may require us to meet certain other legal requirements as a condition to obtaining or maintaining entry visas, which may impact our ability to provide services to our clients; potential violations of local laws or anti-bribery laws, such as the united states foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ), and the uk bribery act, may cause difficulty in managing foreign operations, as well as significant consequences to us if those laws are violated; clients in foreign jurisdictions may have longer payment cycles, and it may be more difficult to collect receivables in foreign jurisdictions; and 27 table of contents natural disasters, pandemics or international conflict, including terrorist acts, could interrupt our services, endanger our personnel or cause project delays or loss of clinical trial materials or results. these risks and uncertainties could negatively impact our ability to, among other things, perform large, global projects for our clients. furthermore, our ability to deal with these issues could be affected by applicable united states laws and the need to protect our assets. any such risks could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. exchange rate fluctuations may affect our results of operations and financial condition. because a large portion of our revenues and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the united states dollar and our financial statements are reported in united states dollars, changes in foreign currency exchange rates could significantly affect our results of operations and financial condition. exchange rate fluctuations between local currencies and the united states dollar create risk in several ways, including: foreign currency translation risk . the revenue and expenses of our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies and translated into united states dollars for financial reporting purposes. accordingly, exchange rate fluctuations will affect the translation of foreign results into united states dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated results. foreign currency transaction risk . we are subject to foreign currency transaction risk for fluctuations in exchange rates during the period of time between the consummation and cash settlement of a transaction. we earn revenue from our service contracts over a period of several months and, in some cases, over several years. accordingly, exchange rate fluctuations during this period may affect our profitability with respect to such contracts. we may limit these risks through exchange rate fluctuation provisions stated in our service contracts, or we may hedge our transaction risk with foreign currency exchange contracts or options. we have not, however, hedged all of our foreign currency transaction risk, and we may experience fluctuations in financial results from our operations outside the united states and foreign currency transaction risk associated with our service contracts. due to the global nature of our business, we may be exposed to liabilities under the united states foreign corrupt practices act and various non-united states anti-corruption laws, and any allegation or determination that we violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are required to comply with the fcpa and other united states and non-united states anti-corruption laws, which prohibit companies from engaging in bribery including corruptly or improperly offering, promising, or providing money or anything else of value to non-united states officials and certain other recipients. in addition, the fcpa imposes certain books, records, and accounting control obligations on public companies and other issuers. we operate in parts of the world in which corruption can be common and compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. our global operations face the risk of unauthorized payments or offers being made by employees, consultants, sales agents, and other business partners outside of our control or without our authorization. it is our policy to implement safeguards to prohibit these practices by our employees and business partners with respect to our operations. however, irrespective of these safeguards, or as a result of monitoring compliance with such safeguards, it is possible that we or certain other parties may discover or receive information at some point that certain employees, consultants, sales agents, or other business partners may have engaged in corrupt conduct for which we might be held responsible. violations of the fcpa or other non-united states anti-corruption laws may result in restatements of, or irregularities in, our financial statements as well as severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. in some cases, companies that violate the fcpa may be debarred by the united states government and/or lose their united states export privileges. changes in anti-corruption laws or enforcement priorities could also result in increased compliance requirements and related costs which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in 28 table of contents addition, the united states or other governments may seek to hold us liable for successor liability fcpa violations or violations of other anti-corruption laws committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquired or will acquire. we face risks related to sales to government entities. we derive a portion of our revenue from sales to government entities in the united states. in general, our contracts with united states government entities are terminable at will by the government entity at any time. government demand and payment for our services may be affected by public-sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations. government contracts are subject to oversight, including special rules on accounting, expenses, reviews and security. failure to comply with these rules could result in civil and criminal penalties and sanctions, including termination of contracts, fines and suspensions, or debarment from future business with the united states government. as a result, failure to comply with these rules could have an adverse effect on our future business, reputation, operating results and financial condition. if we are unable to successfully develop and market new services or enter new markets, our growth, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. a key element of our growth strategy is the successful development and marketing of new services or entering new markets that complement or expand our existing business. as we develop new services or enter new markets, including services targeted at participants in the broader healthcare industry, we may not have or adequately build the competencies necessary to perform such services satisfactorily, may not receive market acceptance for such services or may face increased competition. if we are unable to succeed in developing new services, entering new markets or attracting a client base for our new services or in new markets, we will be unable to implement this element of our growth strategy, and our future business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. our research &amp; development solutions business could subject us to potential liability that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our research &amp; development solutions business involves the testing of new drugs on patients in clinical trials and, if marketing approval is granted, the availability of these drugs to be prescribed to patients. our involvement in the clinical trials and development process creates a risk of liability for personal injury to or death of patients, particularly those with life-threatening illnesses, resulting from adverse reactions to the drugs administered during testing or after product launch, respectively. for example, we have from time to time been sued and may be sued in the future by individuals alleging personal injury due to their participation in clinical trials and seeking damages from us under a variety of legal theories. although we maintain the types and amounts of insurance we view as customary in the industries and countries in which we operate, if we are required to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with any personal injury claim that is outside the scope of indemnification agreements we have with our clients, if any indemnification agreement is not performed in accordance with its terms or if our liability exceeds the amount of any applicable indemnification limits or available insurance coverage, our financial condition, results of operations and reputation could be materially and adversely affected. we maintain professional liability insurance, including liability for completed operations coverage. in the future, we may not be able to get adequate insurance for these types of risks at reasonable rates. we also contract with physicians to serve as investigators in conducting clinical trials. if the investigators commit errors or make omissions during a clinical trial that result in harm to clinical trial patients or after a clinical trial to a patient using the drug after it has received regulatory approval, claims for personal injury or liability damages may result. additionally, if the investigators engage in fraudulent behavior, clinical trial data may be compromised, which may require us to repeat the clinical trial or subject us to liability. we do not believe we are legally responsible for the medical care rendered by such third-party investigators, and we would 29 table of contents vigorously defend any claims brought against us. however, it is possible we could be found liable for claims with respect to the actions of third-party investigators, which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. some of our research &amp; development solutions services involve direct interaction with clinical trial subjects or volunteers and operation of phase i clinical facilities, which could create potential liability that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we operate facilities where phase i clinical trials are conducted, which ordinarily involve testing an investigational drug on a limited number of healthy individuals, typically 20 to 80 persons, to determine such drug basic safety. failure to operate such a facility in accordance with applicable regulations could result in that facility being shut down, which could disrupt our operations. additionally, we face risks associated with adverse events resulting from the administration of such drugs to healthy volunteers and the professional malpractice of medical care providers. occasionally, physicians employed at our phase i clinical facilities act as principal investigators in later-phase clinical trials at those same facilities. we also directly employ nurses and other trained employees who assist in implementing the testing involved in our clinical trials, such as drawing blood from healthy volunteers. any professional malpractice or negligence by such investigators, nurses or other employees could potentially result in liability to us in the event of personal injury to or death of a healthy volunteer in clinical trials. this liability, particularly if it were to exceed the limits of any indemnification agreements and insurance coverage we may have, may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. our integrated engagement services business could result in liability to us if a drug causes harm to a patient. while we are generally indemnified and insured against such risks, we may still suffer financial losses. when we market drugs under contract for a biopharmaceutical company, we could suffer liability for harm allegedly caused by those drugs, either as a result of a lawsuit against the biopharmaceutical company to which we are joined, a lawsuit naming us or any of our subsidiaries or an action launched by a regulatory body. while we are generally indemnified by the biopharmaceutical company for the action of the drugs we market on its behalf, and we carry insurance to cover harm caused by our negligence in performing services, it is possible that we could nonetheless incur financial losses, regulatory penalties or both. in particular, any claim could result in potential liability for us if the claim is outside the scope of the indemnification agreement we have with the biopharmaceutical company, the biopharmaceutical company does not abide by the indemnification agreement as required or the liability exceeds the amount of any applicable indemnification limits or available insurance coverage. such a finding could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. furthermore, negative publicity associated with harm caused by drugs we helped to market could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. our insurance may not cover all of our indemnification obligations and other liabilities associated with our operations. we maintain insurance designed to provide coverage for ordinary risks associated with our operations and our ordinary indemnification obligations. the coverage provided by such insurance may not be adequate for all claims we may make or may be contested by our insurance carriers. if our insurance is not adequate or available to pay liabilities associated with our operations, or if we are unable to purchase adequate insurance at reasonable rates in the future, our profitability may be adversely impacted. if we are unable to attract suitable investigators and patients for our clinical trials, our clinical development business might suffer. the timely recruitment of investigators and patients for clinical trials is essential to our research &amp; development solutions business. investigators are typically located at hospitals, clinics or other sites and supervise 30 table of contents the administration of the investigational drug to patients during the course of a clinical trial. patients generally include people from the communities in which the clinical trials are conducted. our clinical development business could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract suitable and willing investigators or patients for clinical trials on a consistent basis. for example, if we are unable to engage investigators to conduct clinical trials as planned or enroll sufficient patients in clinical trials, we might need to expend additional funds to obtain access to resources or else be compelled to delay or modify the clinical trial plans, which may result in additional costs to us. if we lose the services of key personnel or are unable to recruit additional qualified personnel, our business could be adversely affected. our success substantially depends on the collective performance, contributions and expertise of our personnel including senior management and key personnel, qualified professional, scientific and technical operating staff and qualified sales representatives for our contract sales services. there is significant and increasing competition for qualified personnel, particularly those with higher educational degrees, such as a medical degree, a ph.d. or an equivalent degree, or relevant experience in the industry and in the locations in which we operate. in addition, the departure of our key employees, or our inability to continue to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel or replace any departed personnel in a timely fashion, may impact our ability to grow our business and compete effectively in our industry and may negatively affect our ability to meet financial and operational goals. disruptions in the credit and capital markets and unfavorable general economic conditions could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. disruptions in the credit and capital markets could have negative effects on our business that may be difficult to predict or anticipate, including the ability of our clients, vendors, contractors and financing sources to meet their contractual obligations. although we are unable to quantify the impact it has had on us, we are aware of a limited number of instances in our research &amp; development solutions business during the past several years where cancellations, changes in scope and failure to pay timely were attributable, at least in part, to difficulty in our clients ability to obtain financing. in the future such actions by our clients could, if they involve a significant amount of business with us, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our effective income tax rate may fluctuate, which may adversely affect our operations, earnings and earnings per share. our effective income tax rate is influenced by our projected profitability in the various taxing jurisdictions in which we operate. changes in the distribution of profits and losses among taxing jurisdictions may have a significant impact on our effective income tax rate, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our net income and earnings per share. factors that may affect our effective income tax rate include, but are not limited to: the requirement to exclude from our quarterly worldwide effective income tax calculations losses in jurisdictions where no income tax benefit can be recognized; actual and projected full year pre-tax income; changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities; the repatriation of foreign earnings to the united states; changes in tax laws in various taxing jurisdictions; audits by taxing authorities; and the establishment of valuation allowances against deferred income tax assets if we determined that it is more likely than not that future income tax benefits will not be realized. 31 table of contents these changes may cause fluctuations in our effective income tax rate that could adversely affect our results of operations and cause fluctuations in our earnings and earnings per share. additional information regarding our income taxes is presented in note 18 to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. our relationships with existing or potential clients who are in competition with each other may adversely impact the degree to which other clients or potential clients use our services, which may adversely affect our results of operations. the biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive, with biopharmaceutical companies each seeking to persuade payers, providers and patients that their drug therapies are better and more cost-effective than competing therapies marketed or being developed by competing firms. in addition to the adverse competitive interests that biopharmaceutical companies have with each other, biopharmaceutical companies also have adverse interests with respect to drug selection and reimbursement with other participants in the healthcare industry, including payers and providers. biopharmaceutical companies also compete to be first to market with new drug therapies. we regularly provide services to biopharmaceutical companies who compete with each other, and we sometimes provide services or funding to such clients regarding competing drugs in development. our existing or future relationships with our biopharmaceutical clients may therefore deter other biopharmaceutical clients from using our services or may result in our clients seeking to place limits on our ability to serve other biopharmaceutical industry participants in connection with drug development activities. in addition, our further expansion into the broader healthcare market may adversely impact our relationships with biopharmaceutical clients, and such clients may elect not to use our services, reduce the scope of services that we provide to them or seek to place restrictions on our ability to serve clients in the broader healthcare market with interests that are adverse to theirs. a loss of clients or reductions in the level of revenues from a client could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, business and prospects. if we are unable to successfully identify, acquire and integrate existing businesses, services and technologies, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. we anticipate that a portion of our future growth may come from acquiring existing businesses, services or technologies. the success of any acquisition will depend upon, among other things, our ability to effectively integrate acquired personnel, operations, services and technologies into our business and to retain the key personnel and clients of our acquired businesses. in addition, we may be unable to identify suitable acquisition opportunities or obtain any necessary financing on commercially acceptable terms. we may also spend time and money investigating and negotiating with potential acquisition targets but not complete the transaction. any future acquisition could involve other risks, including, among others, the assumption of additional liabilities and expenses, difficulties and expenses in connection with integrating the acquired companies and achieving the expected benefits, issuances of potentially dilutive securities or interest-bearing debt, loss of key employees of the acquired companies, transaction costs, diversion of management attention from other business concerns and, with respect to the acquisition of foreign companies, the inability to overcome differences in foreign business practices, language and customs. our failure to identify potential acquisitions, complete targeted acquisitions and integrate completed acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. investments in our clients businesses or drugs and our related commercial rights strategies could have a negative impact on our financial performance. we may enter into arrangements with our clients or other drug companies in which we take on some of the risk of the potential success or failure of their businesses or drugs, including making strategic investments in our clients or other drug companies, providing financing to clients or other drug companies or acquiring an interest in the revenues from clients drugs or in entities developing a limited number of drugs. our financial results would be adversely affected if these investments or the underlying drugs result in losses or do not achieve the level of success that we anticipate and/or our return or payment from the drug investment or financing is less than our direct and indirect costs with respect to these arrangements. 32 table of contents our results of operations may be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our goodwill and intangible assets. we assess the realizability of our indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill annually and conduct an interim evaluation whenever events or changes in circumstances, such as operating losses or a significant decline in earnings associated with the acquired business or asset, indicate that these assets may be impaired. for example, we recognized $28 million of impairment losses during the year ended december 31, 2016, for goodwill and intangible assets in our encore reporting unit. our ability to realize the value of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets will depend on the future cash flows of the businesses we have acquired, which in turn depend in part on how well we have integrated these businesses into our own business. if we are not able to realize the value of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. such impairment charges could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we face risks arising from the restructuring of our operations. from time to time, we have adopted restructuring plans to improve our operating efficiency through various means such as reduction of overcapacity, elimination of non-billable support roles or other realignment of resources. in addition, we have provided guidance of cost synergies of annualized savings exiting 2019 of $200 million in connection with the merger. restructuring presents significant potential risks of events occurring that could adversely affect us, including: actual or perceived disruption of service or reduction in service standards to clients; the failure to preserve supplier relationships and distribution, sales and other important relationships and to resolve conflicts that may arise; loss of sales as we reduce or eliminate staffing on non-core services; diversion of management attention from ongoing business activities; and the failure to maintain employee morale and retain key employees. further, any such restructuring would result in charges that, if material, could harm our results of operations and significantly reduce our cash position or increase debt. in addition, we may incur certain unforeseen costs once any restructuring activities are implemented. further, if we determine to effect any restructuring, we can give no assurance that any projected cost reductions resulting from such restructuring activities will be achieved within the expected timeframe, or at all. because of these and other factors, we cannot predict whether we will realize the purpose and anticipated benefits of these measures and, if we do not, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. additionally, there may be delays in implementing the restructuring activities or a failure to achieve the anticipated levels of cost savings and efficiency as a result of the restructuring activities, each of which could materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations. further restructuring or reorganization activities may also be required in the future beyond what is currently planned, which could further enhance the risks associated with these activities. risks relating to our industry the biopharmaceutical services industry is highly competitive. the biopharmaceutical services industry is highly competitive. our business often competes with other biopharmaceutical services companies, internal discovery departments, development departments, sales and marketing departments, information technology departments and other departments within our clients, some of 33 table of contents which could be considered large biopharmaceutical services companies in their own right with greater resources than ours. we also compete with universities, teaching hospitals, governments agencies and others. if we do not compete successfully, our business will suffer. the industry is highly fragmented, with numerous smaller specialized companies and a handful of companies with global capabilities similar to certain of our own capabilities. increased competition has led to price and other forms of competition, such as acceptance of less favorable contract terms, that could adversely affect our operating results. there are few barriers to entry for companies considering offering any one or more of the services we offer. because of their size and focus, these companies might compete effectively against us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. our future growth and success will depend on our ability to successfully compete with other companies that provide similar services in the same markets, some of which may have financial, marketing, technical and other advantages. we also expect that competition will continue to increase as a result of consolidation among these various companies. large technology companies with substantial resources, technical expertise and greater brand power could also decide to enter or further expand in the markets where our business operates and compete with us. if one or more of our competitors or potential competitors were to merge or partner with another of our competitors, or if a new entrant emerged with substantial resources, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. we compete on the basis of various factors, including breadth and depth of services, reputation, reliability, quality, innovation, security, price and industry expertise and experience. in addition, our ability to compete successfully may be impacted by the growing availability of health information from social media, government health information systems and other free or low-cost sources. for example, the united kingdom national health service started releasing large volumes of data beginning in december 2011 at little or no charge, reducing the demand for our information services derived from similar data. in addition, consolidation or integration of wholesalers, retail pharmacies, health networks, payers or other healthcare stakeholders may lead any of them to provide information services directly to clients or indirectly through a designated service provider, resulting in increased competition from firms that may have lower costs to market (e.g., no data supply costs). any of the above may result in lower demand for our services, which could result in a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. outsourcing trends in the biopharmaceutical industry and changes in aggregate spending and research and development budgets could adversely affect our operating results and growth rate. economic factors and industry trends that affect biopharmaceutical companies affect our research &amp; development solutions business. biopharmaceutical companies continue to seek long-term strategic collaborations with global contract research organizations with favorable pricing terms. competition for these collaborations is intense and we may decide to forego an opportunity or we may not be selected, in which case a competitor may enter into the collaboration and our business with the client, if any, may be limited. in addition, if the biopharmaceutical industry reduces its outsourcing of clinical trials and sales and marketing projects or such outsourcing fails to grow at projected rates, our operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. we may also be negatively impacted by consolidation and other factors in the biopharmaceutical industry, which may slow decision making by our clients or result in the delay or cancellation of clinical trials. our commercial services may be affected by reductions in new drug launches and increases in the number of drugs losing patent protection. all of these events could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. our business may be materially and adversely impacted by factors affecting the biopharmaceutical and healthcare industries. the vast majority of our revenue is generated from sales to the biopharmaceutical and healthcare industries. the clients we serve in these industries are commonly subject to financial pressures, including, but not limited to, increased costs, reduced demand for their products, reductions in pricing and reimbursement for products and services, formulary approval and placement, government approval to market their products and limits on the manner by which they market their products, loss of patent exclusivity (whether due to patent 34 table of contents expiration or as a result of a successful legal challenge) and the proliferation of or changes to regulations applicable to these industries. to the extent our clients face such pressures, or they change how they utilize our offerings, the demand for our services, or the prices our clients are willing to pay for those services, may decline. any such decline could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. we may be affected by healthcare reform and potential additional reforms. the united states congress continues to consider healthcare reform legislation and impose health industry cost containment measures, which may significantly impact the biopharmaceutical industry. in addition, numerous government bodies are considering or have adopted various healthcare reforms and may undertake, or are in the process of undertaking, efforts to control growing healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and biopharmaceutical companies. we are uncertain as to the effects of these recent reforms on our business and are unable to predict what legislative proposals, if any, will be adopted in the future. if regulatory cost containment efforts limit the profitability of new drugs, our clients may reduce their research and development spending or promotional, marketing and sales expenditures, which could reduce the business they outsource to us. similarly, if regulatory requirements are relaxed or simplified drug approval procedures are adopted, the demand for our services could decrease. foreign and domestic government bodies may also adopt healthcare legislation or regulations that are more burdensome than existing regulations. for example, product safety concerns and recommendations by the drug safety oversight board could change the regulatory environment for drug products, and new or heightened regulatory and licensing requirements may increase our expenses or limit or delay our ability to offer some of our services. additionally, new or heightened regulatory requirements may have a negative impact on the ability of our clients to conduct industry-sponsored clinical trials, which could reduce the need for our services. actions by government regulators or clients to limit a prescription scope or withdraw an approved drug from the market could adversely affect our business and result in a loss of revenues. government regulators have the authority, after approving a drug, to regulate or limit its scope of prescription or withdraw it from the market completely based on safety concerns. similarly, clients may act to voluntarily limit the scope of prescription of drugs or withdraw them from the market. in the past, we have provided services with respect to drugs that have been limited and/or withdrawn. if we are providing services to clients for drugs that are limited or withdrawn, we may be required to narrow the scope of or terminate our services with respect to such drugs, which would prevent earning the full amount of revenues anticipated under the related service contracts with negative impacts to our financial results. if we do not keep pace with rapid technological changes, our services may become less competitive or obsolete. the biopharmaceutical industry is subject to rapid technological changes. our current competitors or other businesses might develop technologies or services that are more effective or commercially attractive than, or render obsolete, our current or future technologies and services. if our competitors introduce superior technologies or services and if we cannot make enhancements to remain competitive, our competitive position would be harmed. if we are unable to compete successfully, we may lose clients or be unable to attract new clients, which could lead to a decrease in our revenue and financial condition. laws restricting biopharmaceutical sales and marketing practices may adversely impact demand for our services. there have been a significant number of laws, legislative initiatives and regulatory actions over the years that seek to limit biopharmaceutical sales and marketing practices. for example, three states in 2006 and 2007 passed laws restricting the use of prescriber identifiable information for the purpose of promoting branded 35 table of contents prescription medicines. although these laws were subsequently declared to be unconstitutional based on a decision of the u.s. supreme court in sorrell v. ims health in 2011, we are unable to predict whether, and in what form, other initiatives may be introduced or actions taken at the state or federal levels to limit biopharmaceutical sales and marketing practices. in addition, while we will continue to seek to adapt our services to comply with the requirements of these laws (to the extent applicable to our services), if enacted, there can be no assurance that our efforts to adapt our offerings will be successful and provide the same financial contribution to us. there can also be no assurance that future legislative initiatives will not adversely affect our ability to develop or market current or future offerings, or that any future laws will not diminish the demand for our services, all of which could, over time, result in a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. our research &amp; development solutions clients face intense competition from lower cost generic products, which may lower the amount that they spend on our services. our research &amp; development solutions clients face increasing competition from lower cost generic products, which in turn may affect their ability to pursue research and development activities with us. in the united states, eu and japan, political pressure to reduce spending on prescription drugs has led to legislation and other measures which encourages the use of generic products. in addition, proposals emerge from time to time in the united states and other countries for legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs. loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic substitutes, reducing our clients sales of that product and their overall profitability. availability of generic substitutes for our clients drugs may adversely affect their results of operations and cash flow, which in turn may mean that they would not have surplus capital to invest in research and development and drug commercialization, including in our services. if competition from generic products impacts our clients finances such that they decide to curtail our services, our revenues may decline and this could have a material adverse effect on our business. risks relating to our indebtedness restrictions imposed in the senior secured credit facilities and other outstanding indebtedness, including the indentures governing quintiles ims holdings, inc. outstanding notes, may limit our ability to operate our business and to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. the terms of the senior secured credit facilities restrict quintilesims and its restricted subsidiaries from engaging in specified types of transactions. these covenants restrict the ability of quintilesims and its restricted subsidiaries, among other things, to: incur liens; make investments and loans; incur indebtedness or guarantees; issue preferred stock of a restricted subsidiary; issue disqualified equity; engage in mergers, acquisitions and asset sales; declare dividends, make payments or redeem or repurchase equity interests; alter the business quintilesims and its restricted subsidiaries conduct; make restricted payments; enter into agreements limiting restricted subsidiary distributions; 36 table of contents prepay, redeem or purchase certain indebtedness; and engage in certain transactions with affiliates. in addition, the revolving credit facility and the new term loans under our senior secured credit facility require quintilesims to comply with a quarterly maximum senior secured net leverage ratio test and minimum interest coverage ratio test, which become more restrictive over time. quintilesims ability to comply with these financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and quintilesims may not be able to satisfy them. additionally, the restrictions contained in the indentures governing the outstanding notes could also limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet capital needs or make acquisitions or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the senior secured credit facilities or the indentures governing the outstanding notes, which could trigger acceleration of our indebtedness and may result in the acceleration of or default under any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial results. in the event of any default under the senior secured credit facilities, the applicable lenders could elect to terminate borrowing commitments and declare all borrowings and loans outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and any fees and other obligations, to be due and payable. in addition, or in the alternative, the applicable lenders could exercise their rights under the security documents entered into in connection with the senior secured credit facilities. quintilesims and the other subsidiary guarantors have pledged substantially all of their tangible and intangible assets (subject to customary exceptions) as collateral under the senior secured credit facilities, including the stock and the assets of certain of our current and future wholly owned united states subsidiaries and a portion of the stock of certain of our non-united states subsidiaries. if we were unable to repay or otherwise refinance these borrowings and loans when due, the applicable lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness, which could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation. in the event the applicable lenders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. any acceleration of amounts due under the credit agreement governing the senior secured credit facilities or the exercise by the applicable lenders of their rights under the security documents would likely have a material adverse effect on us. despite our level of indebtedness, we are able to incur more debt and undertake additional obligations. incurring such debt or undertaking such additional obligations could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition. although our credit agreement, which governs the senior credit facilities of our wholly owned subsidiary through which we conduct our operations, quintiles ims incorporated ( opco ), contains restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could increase. in addition, the receivables financing agreement for our special purpose subsidiary, quintiles funding, llc ( quintiles funding ) limits borrowing based on the amount of receivables purchased by quintiles funding from certain of our other subsidiaries, but when supported by the value of such purchased receivables, the debt under our receivables financing facility can increase. while the credit agreement also contains restrictions on our and our restricted subsidiaries ability to make loans and investments, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the investments incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. 37 table of contents restrictive covenants in our other indebtedness may limit our flexibility in our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to pursue our business strategies. the terms contained in certain of our indebtedness, including credit facilities and any future indebtedness of ours, may include a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on our and our restricted subsidiaries ability to take actions that we believe may be in our interest. these agreements, among other things, limit our ability to: incur additional debt; provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons; issue redeemable stock and preferred stock; pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; make loans, investments and capital expenditures; enter into transactions with affiliates; create or incur liens; make distributions from our subsidiaries; sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries; make acquisitions; and consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person. a breach of the covenants or restrictions under the agreements governing our other indebtedness could result in a default under the applicable indebtedness. such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. in the event our lenders and noteholders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we cannot assure that we and our subsidiaries would have sufficient assets to repay such indebtedness. our financial results, our substantial indebtedness and our credit ratings could adversely affect the availability and terms of future financing. interest rate fluctuations may affect our results of operations and financial condition. because we have variable rate debt, fluctuations in interest rates affect our business. we attempt to minimize interest rate risk and lower our overall borrowing costs through the utilization of derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate caps and swaps. we have entered into interest rate caps and swaps with financial institutions that have reset dates and critical terms that match those of our senior secured term loan credit facility. accordingly, any change in market value associated with the interest rate caps and swaps is offset by the opposite market impact on the related debt. because we do not attempt to hedge all of our variable rate debt, we may incur higher interest costs for the portion of our variable rate debt which is not hedged. 38 table of contents risks relating to ownership of our common stock the parties to the shareholders agreement continue to have significant influence over us after the merger, including control over decisions that require the approval of stockholders, which could limit the ability of other stockholders to influence the outcome of matters submitted to stockholders for a vote. as of february 9, 2017, certain of the largest post-merger stockholders own approximately 41.4% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. these stockholders are parties to a shareholders agreement dated may 3, 2016 (the shareholders agreement ) that superseded and replaced the quintiles amended and restated shareholders agreement dated february 5, 2015 and the quintiles second amended and restated registration rights agreement, dated may 14, 2013, as amended and the ims health amended and restated shareholders agreement dated as of april 9, 2014. the parties to the shareholders agreement, other than dr. dennis gillings and certain of his affiliates (the dg shareholders ) (who have agreed separately to vote in favor of the merger and the transactions contemplated thereby), have agreed to vote for individuals designated to the surviving corporation board of directors upon completion of the merger as follows: ari bousbib (as our chief executive officer); one individual designated by the tpg-q funds and the tpg-i funds (collectively tpg shareholders ) (until the time at which the tpg shareholders beneficially own, as a group, less than 5% of our outstanding common stock); another individual designated by the tpg shareholders (until the earlier of (i) the seven year anniversary of completion of the merger and (ii) time at which the tpg shareholders beneficially own, as a group, 5% or more but less than 12% of our outstanding common stock); one individual designated by each of bain capital investors, llc ( bain capital ), the lgp shareholders and the cpp shareholder (each until the earlier of (i) the day after our 2018 annual meeting of stockholders or (ii) the time at which such stockholder group beneficially owns less than 2.5% of our outstanding common stock); four individuals who are non-stockholder, independent directors; and until the company 2018 annual meeting of stockholders, the vacancy resulting from thomas h. pike resignation may be filled by remaining quintiles nominees (as defined in the shareholders agreement). the shareholders agreement provides that we will use our best efforts to cause dr. gillings to be elected as the lead director through our 2018 annual meeting of stockholders and to be elected as a director so that he may serve as a director until the day after our 2021 annual meeting of stockholders (provided that the dg shareholders, as a group, continue to beneficially own at least 2.5% of our outstanding common stock), including using its best efforts to support his nomination for the slate of director nominees for a three-year term at our 2017 and 2020 annual meetings of stockholders. as a result, the parties to the shareholders agreement potentially have the ability to influence decisions of our company to enter into any corporate transaction (and the terms thereof), any change in the composition of our board of directors and any transaction that requires stockholder approval regardless of whether others believe that such change or transaction is in the best interests of our company. additionally, the parties to the shareholders agreement are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. one or more of the parties to the shareholders agreement may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our businesses and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. so long as the parties to the shareholders agreement continue to own a significant amount of our equity, if they exercise their stockholder rights collectively, they will be able to significantly influence our decisions. 39 table of contents provisions of the corporate governance documents of quintilesims could make an acquisition of quintilesims difficult and may prevent attempts by its stockholders to replace or remove its management, even if beneficial to its stockholders. in addition to the beneficial ownership of a large percentage of quintilesims common stock by the parties to the shareholders agreement, our certificate of incorporation and delaware bylaws and the general corporation law of delaware ( dgcl ) contain provisions that could make it difficult for a third party to acquire quintilesims even if doing so might be beneficial to its stockholders, including: the division of the board of directors into three classes and the election of each class for three-year terms; subject to the shareholders agreement, the sole ability of the board of directors to fill a vacancy created by the death or resignation of a director or the expansion of the board of directors; advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations; limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings and to take action by written consent; the approval of holders of at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the outstanding shares of quintilesims entitled to vote on any amendment, alteration, change, addition or repeal of the delaware bylaws is required to amend, alter, change, add to or repeal the delaware bylaws; the required approval of holders of at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the outstanding shares of quintilesims to remove directors, which removal may only be for cause, subject to different requirements in the case of directors elected by a voting group of stockholders and the terms of the shareholders agreement; and the ability of the board of directors to issue new series of, and designate the terms of, preferred stock, without stockholder approval, which could be used to, among other things, institute a rights plan that would have the effect of significantly diluting the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, likely preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by the board of directors. in addition, quintilesims is subject to section 203 of the dgcl regulating corporate takeovers, although our board of directors adopted a resolution approving the merger pursuant to which shares of common stock were acquired, by among others, the tpg shareholders. section 203, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits a delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that such stockholder became an interested stockholder unless: prior to such date, the board of directors of the corporation approved either the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder; upon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of the voting stock of the corporation outstanding at the time the transaction commenced, excluding those shares owned by persons who are directors and also officers, and employee stock plans in which employee participants do not have the right to determine confidentially whether shares held subject to the plan will be tendered in a tender or exchange offer; or on or subsequent to such date, the business combination is approved by the board of directors and authorized at an annual or special meeting of stockholders, and not by written consent, by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock that is not owned by the interested stockholder. in general, section 203 defines business combination to include mergers or consolidations between a delaware corporation and an interested stockholder, transactions with an interested stockholder involving the 40 table of contents assets or stock of the corporation or its majority-owned subsidiaries and transactions which increase an interested stockholder percentage ownership of stock. in general, section 203 defines an interested stockholder as any entity or person beneficially owning 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of the corporation and any entity or person affiliated with or controlling or controlled by such entity or person. these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by stockholders to replace members of the board of directors. because quintilesims board is responsible for appointing the members of management, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt to replace current members of management. as a result, stockholders of quintilesims may lose their ability to sell their stock for a price in excess of the prevailing market price due to these protective measures, and efforts by stockholders to change the direction or management of quintilesims may be unsuccessful. our operating results and share price may be volatile, which could cause the value of our stockholders investments to decline. our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate in the future, and such fluctuations may be significant. in addition, securities markets worldwide have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, significant price and volume fluctuations. this market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could subject the market price of our shares to wide price fluctuations regardless of our operating performance. our operating results and the trading price of our shares may fluctuate in response to various factors, including: market conditions in the broader stock market; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual financial and operating results; introduction of new services by us or our competitors; issuance of new or changed securities analysts reports or recommendations; sales, or anticipated sales, of large blocks of our stock; additions or departures of key personnel; regulatory or political developments; litigation and governmental investigations; changing economic conditions; and exchange rate fluctuations. these and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause our operating results and the market price for our shares to fluctuate substantially. while we believe that operating results for any particular quarter are not necessarily a meaningful indication of future results, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares and may otherwise negatively affect the market price and liquidity of our shares. in addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. if any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management from our business, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation. there may be sales of a substantial amount of our common stock by our current stockholders, and these sales could cause the price of our common stock to fall. as of february 9, 2017, there were 235,719,111 shares of common stock outstanding. approximately 41.4% of the outstanding shares of our common stock is held by parties to the shareholders agreement). 41 table of contents sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales will occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and make it difficult for us to raise funds through securities offerings in the future. for example, as restrictions on resale end, the market price of our common stock could decline if the holders of currently restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. stockholders that are a party to the shareholders agreement may require us to register their shares for resale under the federal securities laws, subject to certain requirements. under the shareholders agreement, we are required to pay the registration expenses associated with the registration of such shares, not including the underwriting discounts, commissions and transfer taxes. registration of those shares would allow those stockholders to immediately resell their shares in the public market. any such sales or the anticipation of such sales may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. in addition, we may use our cash, cash generated from operations or dispositions of assets or businesses and/or proceeds from any new financing arrangements or issuances of debt or equity securities to repurchase shares, including the repurchase of shares from our stockholders that are a party to the shareholders agreement. since we have no current plans to pay regular cash dividends on our common stock, stockholders may not receive any return on investment unless they sell their common stock for a price greater than that which they paid for it. although we have previously declared dividends to our stockholders prior to our initial public offering in may 2013, we do not currently anticipate paying any regular cash dividends on our common stock. any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors that our board may deem relevant. in addition, our ability to pay dividends is, and may be, limited by covenants of existing and any future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur, including under our existing credit facilities. therefore, any return on investment in our common stock is solely dependent upon the appreciation of the price of our common stock on the open market, which may not occur. our certificate of incorporation contains a provision renouncing any interest and expectancy in certain corporate opportunities identified by certain of our affiliates, even if such corporate opportunities are ones that we might reasonably be deemed to have pursued or had the ability or desire to pursue. our certificate of incorporation provides that our company renounces any interest or expectancy in the business opportunities of the tpg shareholders, the bain shareholders, cpp investment board private holdings inc. ( cpp shareholder ), and leonard green &amp; partners, l.p. ( lgp shareholders ), and their affiliates (other than our company and our subsidiaries) and all of their respective partners, principals, directors, officers, members, managers, managing directors and/or employees, and each such person will have no obligation to offer us such opportunities. this provision applies to these stockholders (and associated parties) only for so long as a nominee designated by the stockholder under the shareholders agreement continues to serve on the board. stockholders are deemed to have notice of and have consented to this provision of our certificate of incorporation. therefore, a director or officer of our company who also serves as a director, officer, member, manager, or employee of such stockholders may pursue certain business opportunities, including acquisitions, that may be complementary to its business and, as a result, such opportunities may not be available to us. these potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations, or prospects of our company if attractive corporate opportunities are allocated by such stockholders to themselves or their other affiliates instead of to us. 42 table of contents risks relating to the merger quintilesims may be unable to fully realize the competitive and operating synergies that are projected to be achieved through the combination of quintiles services and ims health offerings. part of the strategic rationale for the merger is the opportunity for us to potentially drive additional revenue and earnings through the utilization by quintiles of ims health data assets and capabilities in accelerating clinical trials. however, the utilization of data in the two companies markets is still evolving and subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the following: government regulatory agencies and legislative bodies, including agencies and legislatures regulating the use of personal data, may impose new conditions or restrictions which affect our use of ims health data; our clients may decide that they will not award additional business to quintilesims based on its data capabilities; implementation of any operational plans to create new data services and solutions for our clients will likely be complex and technically challenging to implement, and may be subject to delays and cost overruns and there is no assurance that the implementation can be carried out effectively; clinical research is a complex and evolving area, and creating effective approaches involving the use of third party data to drive more effective and efficient research outcomes is difficult and challenging; and third parties outside of the control of the company (including suppliers, regulators, and clients) may impose restrictions or conditions which affect the projected data synergies arising from the transaction. we are unable to predict the extent to which these factors will inhibit our business plans and any one of them could result in decreased or delays in our performance. we may fail to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the merger or those benefits may take longer to realize than expected. we may also encounter significant difficulties in integrating the two businesses. our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate the two businesses. the combination of two independent businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. as a result, we are required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating their business practices and operations. the integration process may disrupt the businesses and, if implemented ineffectively, would restrict the realization of the full-expected benefits. the failure to meet the challenges involved in integrating the two businesses and to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction could cause an interruption of or a loss of momentum in, the activities of quintilesims and could adversely affect the results of operations of quintilesims. in addition, the overall integration of the businesses may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of client relationships, and diversion of management attention. the difficulties of combining the operations of the companies include, among others: difficulties in achieving anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from the combination; difficulties in the integration of the companies businesses; difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company; challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel; and potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the merger. 43 table of contents many of these factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, even if the operations of the businesses of quintiles and ims health are integrated successfully, the full benefits of the transaction may not be realized, including the synergies, cost savings or sales or growth opportunities that are expected. these benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. further, additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses of quintiles and ims health. all of these factors could negatively impact our earnings per share, decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the transaction and negatively impact the price of our shares. as a result, there is no assurance that the combination of quintiles and ims health will result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated from the merger. the future results of quintilesims will suffer if we do not effectively manage its expanded operations following the completion of the merger. following the completion of the merger, the size of the business of quintilesims increased significantly beyond the current size of either quintiles or ims health business. our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to manage this expanded business, which poses substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. if we are unsuccessful in managing our integrated operations, or if we do not realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings and other benefits currently anticipated from the merger, the operations and financial condition of quintilesims could be adversely affected and we may not be able to take advantage of business development opportunities. if the merger does not qualify as a reorganization under section 368(a) of the internal revenue code, ims health and the ims health stockholders may be required to pay substantial united states federal income taxes. it was a condition of the merger that legal opinions from tax counsel were received that the merger will be treated for united states federal income tax purposes as a reorganization within the meaning of section 368(a) of the internal revenue code. these opinions were based on certain assumptions and representations as to factual matters from quintiles and ims health, as well as certain covenants and undertakings by quintiles and ims health. if any of the assumptions, representations, covenants or undertakings is incorrect, incomplete, inaccurate or is violated in any material respect, the validity of the conclusions reached by tax counsel would be jeopardized. additionally, an opinion of counsel is not binding on the internal revenue service ( irs ) or any court, so there can be no certainty that the irs will not challenge the conclusions reflected in the opinions or that a court will not sustain such a challenge. if the irs or a court determines that the merger should not be treated as a reorganization, a holder of ims health common stock that is a united states holder would generally recognize a gain or loss upon the exchange of ims health common stock for quintilesims common stock pursuant to the merger. in addition, if the merger is not treated as a reorganization, ims health would recognize a gain or loss, measured generally by the difference between the fair market value of ims health assets and ims health adjusted tax basis in such assets. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices. in the ordinary course of business, we are exposed to various market risks and we regularly evaluate our exposure to such changes. our overall risk management strategy seeks to balance the magnitude of the exposure and the cost and availability of appropriate financial instruments. the following analyses present the sensitivity of our financial instruments to hypothetical changes that are reasonably possible over a one-year period. foreign currency exchange rates we transact business in more than 100 countries and are subject to risks associated with fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates. our objective is to reduce earnings and cash flow volatility associated with foreign currency exchange rate movements. accordingly, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the impact of foreign exchange movements on non functional currency assets and liabilities. we also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency cash flows related to service contracts and to hedge non-united states dollar anticipated intercompany royalties. it is our policy to enter into foreign currency transactions only to the extent necessary to meet its objectives as stated above. we do not enter into foreign currency transactions for investment or speculative purposes. the principal currencies hedged are the euro, the british pound, the japanese yen, the swiss franc and the canadian dollar. the contractual value of our foreign exchange derivative instruments, all of which were foreign exchange forward contracts, was approximately $489 million at december 31, 2016. the fair value of these contracts is subject to change as a result of potential changes in foreign exchange rates. we assess our market risk based on changes in foreign exchange rates utilizing a sensitivity analysis. the sensitivity analysis measures the potential loss in fair values based on a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates. the potential loss in fair value for foreign exchange forward contracts based on a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of the united states dollar or, in the case of non-dollar-related contracts, the currency being purchased, was $39 million at december 31, 2016. however, the change in the fair value of the foreign exchange forward contracts would likely be offset by a change in the fair value of the future service contract revenue, royalty or balance sheet exposure being hedged. the estimated fair values of the foreign exchange forward contracts were determined based on quoted market prices. exchange rate fluctuations affect the united states dollar value of foreign currency revenue and expenses and may have a significant effect on our results. excluding the impacts from any outstanding or future hedging transactions, a hypothetical 10% change in average exchange rates used to translate all foreign currencies to the united states dollar would have impacted income before income taxes for 2016 by approximately $65 million. the actual impact of exchange rate movements in the future could differ materially from this hypothetical analysis, based on the mix of foreign currencies and the timing and magnitude of individual exchange rate movements. additionally commencing in 2016, we designated a portion of our foreign currency denominated debt as a hedge of our net investment in foreign subsidiaries to reduce the volatility in stockholders equity caused by changes in the euro exchange rate with respect to the united states dollar. as of december 31, 2016, these borrowings (net of original issue discount) were 2,025 million ($2,131 million). a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of the united states dollar would lead to a potential loss in fair value of $213 million. however, this change in fair value would be offset by the change in fair value of the hedged portion of our net investment in foreign subsidiaries. 79 table of contents interest rates because we have variable rate debt, fluctuations in interest rates affect our business. we attempt to minimize interest rate risk and lower our overall borrowing costs through the utilization of derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate caps and swaps. we have entered into interest rate caps and swaps with financial institutions that have reset dates and critical terms that match the underlying debt. accordingly, any change in market value associated with the interest rate caps and swaps is offset by the opposite market impact on the related debt. as of december 31, 2016, we had approximately $4.4 billion of variable rate indebtedness and interest rate caps and swaps with a notional value of $1.9 billion. because we do not attempt to hedge all of our variable rate debt, we may incur higher interest costs for the portion of our variable rate debt which is not hedged. each quarter-point increase or decrease in the variable interest rate would result in our interest expense changing by approximately $6 million per year under our unhedged variable rate debt. marketable securities at december 31, 2016, we held investments in marketable equity securities. these investments are classified as either trading securities or available-for-sale securities and are recorded at fair value in the financial statements. these securities are subject to price risk. as of december 31, 2016, the fair value of these investments was $40 million based on the quoted market value of the securities. the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical decrease of 10% in quoted market values was approximately $4 million at december 31, 2016. 80 table of contentsri sk factors risk factors we operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. you should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below together with the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k, in evaluating our company. the occurrence of any of the following risks may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. risks relating to our business the potential loss or delay of our large contracts or of multiple contracts could adversely affect our results. most of our customers can terminate our contracts upon 30 to 90 days notice. our customers may delay, terminate or reduce the scope of our contracts for a variety of reasons beyond our control, including but not limited to: decisions to forego or terminate a particular clinical trial; lack of available financing, budgetary limits or changing priorities; actions by regulatory authorities; production problems resulting in shortages of the drug being tested; failure of products being tested to satisfy safety requirements or efficacy criteria; unexpected or undesired clinical results for products; insufficient patient enrollment in a clinical trial; insufficient investigator recruitment; shift of business to a competitor or internal resources; product withdrawal following market launch; or shut down of manufacturing facilities. as a result, contract terminations, delays and alterations are a regular part of our business. in the event of termination, our contracts often provide for fees for winding down the project, but these fees may not be sufficient for us to maintain our margins, and termination may result in lower resource utilization rates. in addition, we may not realize the full benefits of our backlog of contractually committed services if our customers cancel, delay or reduce their commitments under our contracts with them, which may occur if, among other things, a customer decides to shift its business to a competitor or revoke our status as a preferred provider. thus, the loss or delay of a large contract or the loss or delay of multiple contracts could adversely affect our service revenues and profitability. we believe the risk of loss or delay of multiple contracts potentially has greater effect where we are party to broader partnering arrangements with global biopharmaceutical companies. our financial results may be adversely affected if we underprice our contracts, overrun our cost estimates or fail to receive approval for or experience delays in documenting change orders. most of our contracts are either fee for service contracts or fixed-fee contracts. our past financial results have been, and our future financial results may be, adversely impacted if we initially underprice our contracts or otherwise overrun our cost estimates and are unable to successfully negotiate a change order. change orders typically occur when the scope of work we perform needs to be modified from that originally contemplated by our contract with the customer. modifications can occur, for example, when there is a change in a key clinical trial assumption or parameter or a significant change in timing. where we are not successful in converting out-of-scope work into change orders under our current contracts, we bear the cost of the additional work. such underpricing, significant cost overruns or delay in documentation of change orders could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 18 the relationship of backlog to revenues varies over time. backlog represents future service revenues from work not yet completed or performed under signed contracts, letters of intent and, in some cases, written pre-contract commitments. once work begins on a project, revenue is recognized over the duration of the project. projects may be terminated or delayed by the customer or delayed by regulatory authorities for reasons beyond our control. to the extent projects are delayed, the timing of our revenue could be affected. in the event that a customer cancels a contract, we typically would be entitled to receive payment for all services performed up to the cancellation date and subsequent customer-authorized services related to terminating the canceled project. typically, however, we have no contractual right to the full amount of the revenue reflected in our backlog in the event of a contract cancellation. the duration of the projects included in our backlog, and the related revenue recognition, range from a few weeks to many years. our backlog may not be indicative of our future revenues, and we may not realize all the anticipated future revenue reflected in our backlog. a number of factors may affect backlog, including: the size, complexity and duration of the projects; the cancellation or delay of projects; and change in the scope of work during the course of a project. our backlog at december 31, 2015 was $12,038 million compared to backlog of $11,244 million at december 31, 2014. although an increase in backlog will generally result in an increase in revenues to be recognized over time (depending on the level of cancellations), an increase in backlog at a particular point in time does not necessarily correspond directly to an increase in revenues during a particular period. the extent to which contracts in backlog will result in revenue depends on many factors, including but not limited to delivery against projected schedules, the need for scope changes (change orders), contract cancellations and the nature, duration, size, complexity and phase of the contracts, each of which factors can vary significantly from time to time. our $12,038 million of backlog at december 31, 2015 included approximately $8,188 million of backlog that we do not expect to generate revenue in 2016 as compared to our $11,244 million of backlog at december 31, 2014, which included approximately $7,593 million of backlog that we did not expect to generate revenue in 2015. the rate at which our backlog converts to revenue may vary over time for a variety of reasons. the revenue recognition on larger, more global projects could be slower than on smaller, less global projects for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to an extended period of negotiation between the time the project is awarded to us and the actual execution of the contract, as well as an increased timeframe for obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals. additionally, the increased complexity of clinical trials and the need to enroll precise patient populations could extend the length of clinical trials causing revenue to be recognized over a longer period of time. further, delayed projects will remain in backlog, unless otherwise canceled by the customer, and will not generate revenue at the rate originally expected. thus, the relationship of backlog to realized revenues may vary over time. our business depends on the continued effectiveness and availability of our information systems, including the information systems we use to provide our services to our customers, and failures of these systems may materially limit our operations. due to the global nature of our business and our reliance on information systems to provide our services, we intend to increase our use of web-enabled and other integrated information systems in delivering our services. we also provide access to similar information systems to certain of our customers in connection with the services we provide them. as the breadth and complexity of our information systems continue to grow, we will increasingly be exposed to the risks inherent in the development, integration and ongoing operation of evolving information systems, including: disruption, impairment or failure of data centers, telecommunications facilities or other key infrastructure platforms; security breaches of, cyber attacks on and other failures or malfunctions in our critical application systems or their associated hardware; and excessive costs, excessive delays or other deficiencies in systems development and deployment. 19 the materialization of any of these risks may impede the processing of data, the delivery of databases and services, and the day-to-day management of our business and could result in the corruption, loss or unautho rized disclosure of proprietary, confidential or other data. while we have disaster recovery plans in place, they might not adequately protect us in the event of a system failure. despite any precautions we take, damage from fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, break-ins and similar events at our various computer facilities could result in interruptions in the flow of data to our servers and from our servers to our customers. corruption or loss of data may res ult in the need to repeat a clinical trial at no cost to the customer, but at significant cost to us, the termination of a contract or damage to our reputation. additionally, significant delays in system enhancements or inadequate performance of new or upg raded systems once completed could damage our reputation and harm our business. finally, long-term disruptions in the infrastructure caused by events such as natural disasters, the outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities and acts of terrorism, parti cularly involving cities in which we have offices, could adversely affect our businesses. although we carry property and business interruption insurance, our coverage might not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential data, whether through systems failure or employee negligence, fraud or misappropriation, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers. similarly, we have been and expect that we will continue to be subject to attempts to gain unauthorized access to or through our information systems or those we develop for our customers, whether by our employees or third parties, including a cyber attack by computer programmers and hackers who may develop and deploy viruses, worms or other malicious software programs. to date these attacks have not had a material impact on our operations or financial results. nonetheless, successful attacks in the future could result in negative publicity, significant remediation costs, legal liability and damage to our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in addition, our liability insurance might not be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to security breaches, cyber attacks and other related breaches. we may be adversely affected by customer or therapeutic concentration. although we did not have any customer that represented 10% or more of our service revenues in 2015, 2014, or 2013, we derive the majority of our revenues from a number of large customers. if any large customer decreases or terminates its relationship with us, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. additionally, conducting multiple clinical trials for different customers in a single therapeutic class involving drugs with the same or similar chemical action has in the past and may in the future adversely affect our business if some or all of the clinical trials are canceled because of new scientific information or regulatory judgments that affect the drugs as a class or if industry consolidation results in the rationalization of drug development pipelines. similarly, marketing and selling drugs for different biopharmaceutical companies with similar chemical actions subjects us to risk if new scientific information or regulatory judgment prejudices the drugs as a class, which may lead to compelled or voluntary prescription limitations or withdrawal of some or all of such drugs from the market. our business is subject to international economic, political and other risks that could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. we have significant operations in foreign countries that may require complex arrangements to deliver services on global contracts for our customers. additionally, we have established operations in locations remote from our most developed business centers. as a result, we are subject to heightened risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including the following: conducting a single clinical trial across multiple countries is complex, and issues in one country, such as a failure to comply with local regulations or restrictions, may affect the progress of the clinical trial in the other countries, for example, by limiting the amount of data necessary for a clinical trial to proceed, resulting in delays or potential cancellation of contracts, which in turn may result in loss of revenue; the united states or foreign countries could enact legislation or impose regulations or other restrictions, including unfavorable labor regulations, tax policies or economic sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business in or expatriate profits from the countries in which we operate; foreign countries are expanding or may expand their regulatory framework with respect to patient informed consent, protection and compensation in clinical trials, which could delay or inhibit our ability to conduct clinical trials in such jurisdictions; the regulatory or judicial authorities of foreign countries may not enforce legal rights and recognize business procedures in a manner in which we are accustomed or would reasonably expect; changes in political and economic conditions may lead to changes in the business environment in which we operate, as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates; 20 potential violations of local laws or anti-bribery laws, such as the united states foreign corrupt practices act, or the fcpa, and the uk bribery act, may cause difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations, as well as significant consequences to us if those laws are violated; customers in foreign jurisdictions may have longer payment cycles, and it may be more difficult to collect receivables in foreign jurisdictions; and natural disasters, pandemics or international conflict, including terrorist acts, could interrupt our services, endanger our personnel or cause project delays or loss of clinical trial materials or results. these risks and uncertainties could negatively impact our ability to, among other things, perform large, global projects for our customers. furthermore, our ability to deal with these issues could be affected by applicable united states laws and the need to protect our assets. any such risks could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. due to the global nature of our business, we may be exposed to liabilities under the united states foreign corrupt practices act and various non-united states anti-corruption laws, and any allegation or determination that we violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are required to comply with the fcpa and other united states and non-united states anti-corruption laws, which prohibit companies from engaging in bribery including corruptly or improperly offering, promising, or providing money or anything else of value to non-united states officials and certain other recipients. in addition, the fcpa imposes certain books, records, and accounting control obligations on public companies and other issuers. we operate in parts of the world in which corruption can be common and compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. our global operations face the risk of unauthorized payments or offers being made by employees, consultants, sales agents, and other business partners outside of our control or without our authorization. it is our policy to implement safeguards to prohibit these practices by our employees and business partners with respect to our operations. however, irrespective of these safeguards, or as a result of monitoring compliance with such safeguards, it is possible that we or certain other parties may discover or receive information at some point that certain employees, consultants, sales agents, or other business partners may have engaged in corrupt conduct for which we might be held responsible. violations of the fcpa or other non-united states anti-corruption laws may result in restatements of, or irregularities in, our financial statements as well as severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. in some cases, companies that violate the fcpa may be debarred by the united states government and/or lose their united states export privileges. changes in anti-corruption laws or enforcement priorities could also result in increased compliance requirements and related costs which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the united states or other governments may seek to hold us liable for successor liability fcpa violations or violations of other anti-corruption laws committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquired or will acquire. if we are unable to successfully develop and market new services or enter new markets, our growth, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. a key element of our growth strategy is the successful development and marketing of new services or entering new markets that complement or expand our existing business. as we develop new services or enter new markets, including services targeted at participants in the broader healthcare industry, we may not have or adequately build the competencies necessary to perform such services satisfactorily, may not receive market acceptance for such services or may face increased competition. if we are unable to succeed in developing new services, entering new markets or attracting a customer base for our new services or in new markets, we will be unable to implement this element of our growth strategy, and our future business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. upgrading the information systems that support our operating processes and evolving the technology platform for our services pose risks to our business. continued efficient operation of our business requires that we implement standardized global business processes and evolve our information systems to enable this implementation. we have continued to undertake significant programs to optimize business processes with respect to our services. our inability to effectively manage the implementation and adapt to new processes designed into these new or upgraded systems in a timely and cost-effective manner may result in disruption to our business and negatively affect our operations. 21 we have entered into agreements with cert ain vendors to provide systems development and integration services that develop or license to us the it platform for programs to optimize our business processes. if such vendors fail to perform as required or if there are substantial delays in developing, implementing and updating the it platform, our customer delivery may be impaired, and we may have to make substantial further investments, internally or with third parties, to achieve our objectives. additionally, our progress may be limited by parties wi th existing or claimed patents who seek to enjoin us from using preferred technology or seek license payments from us. meeting our objectives is dependent on a number of factors which may not take place as we anticipate, including obtaining adequate technology-enabled services, creating it-enabled services that our customers will find desirable and implementing our business model with respect to these services. also, increased it-related expenditures may negatively impact our profitability. if we fail to perform our services in accordance with contractual requirements, regulatory standards and ethical considerations, we could be subject to significant costs or liability and our reputation could be harmed. we contract with biopharmaceutical companies to perform a wide range of services to assist them in bringing new drugs to market. our services include monitoring clinical trials, data and laboratory analysis, edc, patient recruitment and other related services. such services are complex and subject to contractual requirements, regulatory standards and ethical considerations. for example, we must adhere to regulatory requirements such as the fda and current gcp, glp and gmp requirements. if we fail to perform our services in accordance with these requirements, regulatory agencies may take action against us for failure to comply with applicable regulations governing clinical trials or sales and marketing practices. such actions may include sanctions, such as injunctions or failure of such regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of products, delay, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, product seizures or recalls, operational restrictions, civil or criminal penalties or prosecutions, damages or fines. customers may also bring claims against us for breach of our contractual obligations and patients in the clinical trials and patients taking drugs approved on the basis of those clinical trials may bring personal injury claims against us for negligence. any such action could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and reputation. such consequences could arise if, among other things, the following occur: improper performance of our services. the performance of clinical development services is complex and time-consuming. for example, we may make mistakes in conducting a clinical trial that could negatively impact or obviate the usefulness of the clinical trial or cause the results of the clinical trial to be reported improperly. if the clinical trial results are compromised, we could be subject to significant costs or liability, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to perform our services. as examples: non-compliance generally could result in the termination of ongoing clinical trials or sales and marketing projects or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities; compromise of data from a particular clinical trial, such as failure to verify that informed consent was obtained from patients, could require us to repeat the clinical trial under the terms of our contract at no further cost to our customer, but at a substantial cost to us; and breach of a contractual term could result in liability for damages or termination of the contract. large clinical trials can cost hundreds of millions of dollars, and while we endeavor to contractually limit our exposure to such risks, improper performance of our services could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, damage our reputation and result in the cancellation of current contracts by or failure to obtain future contracts from the affected customer or other customers. investigation of customers. from time to time, one or more of our customers are audited or investigated by regulatory authorities or enforcement agencies with respect to regulatory compliance of their clinical trials, programs or the marketing and sale of their drugs. in these situations, we have often provided services to our customers with respect to the clinical trials, programs or activities being audited or investigated, and we are called upon to respond to requests for information by the authorities and agencies. there is a risk that either our customers or regulatory authorities could claim that we performed our services improperly or that we are responsible for clinical trial or program compliance. if our customers or regulatory authorities make such claims against us and prove them, we could be subject to damages, fines or penalties. in addition, negative publicity regarding regulatory compliance of our customers' clinical trials, programs or drugs could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. insufficient customer funding to complete a clinical trial. as noted above, clinical trials can cost hundreds of millions of dollars. there is a risk that we may initiate a clinical trial for a customer, and then the customer becomes unwilling or unable to fund the completion of the clinical trial. in such a situation, notwithstanding the customer's ability or willingness to pay for or otherwise facilitate the completion of the clinical trial, we may be ethically bound to complete or wind down the clinical trial at our own expense. 22 our research and development services could subject us to potential liability that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our business involves the testing of new drugs on patients in clinical trials and, if marketing approval is granted, the availability of these drugs to be prescribed to patients. our involvement in the clinical trials and development process creates a risk of liability for personal injury to or death of patients, particularly those with life-threatening illnesses, resulting from adverse reactions to the drugs administered during testing or after product launch, respectively. for example, we have from time to time been sued and may be sued in the future by individuals alleging personal injury due to their participation in clinical trials and seeking damages from us under a variety of legal theories. although we maintain the types and amounts of insurance we view as customary in the industries and countries in which we operate, if we are required to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with any personal injury claim that is outside the scope of indemnification agreements we have with our customers, if any indemnification agreement is not performed in accordance with its terms or if our liability exceeds the amount of any applicable indemnification limits or available insurance coverage, our financial condition, results of operations and reputation could be materially and adversely affected. currently, we maintain professional liability insurance, including products liability for completed operations coverage, with annual aggregate limits in excess of $50.0 million. in the future, we may not be able to get adequate insurance for these types of risks at reasonable rates. we also contract with physicians to serve as investigators in conducting clinical trials. if the investigators commit errors or make omissions during a clinical trial that result in harm to clinical trial patients or after a clinical trial to a patient using the drug after it has received regulatory approval, claims for personal injury or products liability damages may result. additionally, if the investigators engage in fraudulent behavior, clinical trial data may be compromised, which may require us to repeat the clinical trial or subject us to liability. we do not believe we are legally responsible for the medical care rendered by such third-party investigators, and we would vigorously defend any claims brought against us. however, it is possible we could be found liable for claims with respect to the actions of third-party investigators. some of our services involve direct interaction with clinical trial subjects or volunteers and operation of phase i clinical facilities, which could create potential liability that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we operate facilities where phase i clinical trials are conducted, which ordinarily involve testing an investigational drug on a limited number of healthy individuals, typically 20 to 80 persons, to determine such drug's basic safety. failure to operate such a facility in accordance with applicable regulations could result in that facility being shut down, which could disrupt our operations. additionally, we face risks associated with adverse events resulting from the administration of such drugs to healthy volunteers and the professional malpractice of medical care providers. occasionally, physicians employed at our phase i clinical facilities act as principal investigators in later-phase clinical trials at those same facilities. we also directly employ nurses and other trained employees who assist in implementing the testing involved in our clinical trials, such as drawing blood from healthy volunteers. any professional malpractice or negligence by such investigators, nurses or other employees could potentially result in liability to us in the event of personal injury to or death of a healthy volunteer in clinical trials. this liability, particularly if it were to exceed the limits of any indemnification agreements and insurance coverage we may have, may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. our commercial services could result in liability to us if a drug causes harm to a patient. while we are generally indemnified and insured against such risks, we may still suffer financial losses. when we market drugs under contract for a biopharmaceutical company, we could suffer liability for harm allegedly caused by those drugs, either as a result of a lawsuit against the biopharmaceutical company to which we are joined, a lawsuit naming us or any of our subsidiaries or an action launched by a regulatory body. while we are generally indemnified by the biopharmaceutical company for the action of the drugs we market on its behalf, and we carry insurance to cover harm caused by our negligence in performing services, it is possible that we could nonetheless incur financial losses, regulatory penalties or both. in particular, any claim could result in potential liability for us if the claim is outside the scope of the indemnification agreement we have with the biopharmaceutical company, the biopharmaceutical company does not abide by the indemnification agreement as required or the liability exceeds the amount of any applicable indemnification limits or available insurance coverage. such a finding could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. furthermore, negative publicity associated with harm caused by drugs we helped to market could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. 23 our insurance may not cover all of our indemnification obligat ions and other liabilities associated with our operations. we maintain insurance designed to provide coverage for ordinary risks associated with our operations and our ordinary indemnification obligations with annual aggregate limits in excess of $50.0 million. the coverage provided by such insurance may not be adequate for all claims we may make or may be contested by our insurance carriers. if our insurance is not adequate or available to pay liabilities associated with our operations, or if we are unable to purchase adequate insurance at reasonable rates in the future, our profitability may be adversely impacted. if we are unable to attract suitable investigators and patients for our clinical trials, our clinical development business might suffer. the recruitment of investigators and patients for clinical trials is essential to our business. investigators are typically located at hospitals, clinics or other sites and supervise the administration of the investigational drug to patients during the course of a clinical trial. patients generally include people from the communities in which the clinical trials are conducted. our clinical development business could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract suitable and willing investigators or patients for clinical trials on a consistent basis. for example, if we are unable to engage investigators to conduct clinical trials as planned or enroll sufficient patients in clinical trials, we might need to expend additional funds to obtain access to resources or else be compelled to delay or modify the clinical trial plans, which may result in additional costs to us. if we lose the services of key personnel or are unable to recruit additional qualified personnel, our business could be adversely affected our success substantially depends on the collective performance, contributions and expertise of our personnel including senior management and key personnel, qualified professional, scientific and technical operating staff and qualified sales representatives for our contract sales services. there is significant and increasing competition for qualified personnel, particularly those with higher educational degrees, such as a medical degree, a ph.d. or an equivalent degree, or relevant experience as a clinical research associate in the biopharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical services industries. competition for qualified personnel in certain geographic regions, such as north america and asia, is putting additional pressure on our business. in addition, the departure of our key employees, or our inability to continue to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel or replace any departed personnel in a timely fashion, may impact our ability to grow our business and compete effectively in our industry and may negatively affect our ability to meet financial and operational goals. exchange rate fluctuations may affect our results of operations and financial condition. in 2015, approximately 32% of our service revenues were denominated in currencies other than the united states dollar. because a large portion of our service revenues and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the united states dollar and our financial statements are reported in united states dollars, changes in foreign currency exchange rates could significantly affect our results of operations and financial condition. exchange rate fluctuations between local currencies and the united states dollar create risk in several ways, including: foreign currency translation risk. the revenue and expenses of our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies and translated into united states dollars for financial reporting purposes. accordingly, exchange rate fluctuations will affect the translation of foreign results into united states dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated results. foreign currency transaction risk . we are subject to foreign currency transaction risk for fluctuations in exchange rates during the period of time between the consummation and cash settlement of a transaction. we earn revenue from our service contracts over a period of several months and, in some cases, over several years. accordingly, exchange rate fluctuations during this period may affect our profitability with respect to such contracts. we may limit these risks through exchange rate fluctuation provisions stated in our service contracts, or we may hedge our transaction risk with foreign currency exchange contracts or options. we have not, however, hedged 100% of our foreign currency transaction risk, and we may experience fluctuations in financial results from our operations outside the united states and foreign currency transaction risk associated with our service contracts. 24 disruptions in the credit and capital markets and unfavorable general econ omic conditions could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. disruptions in the credit and capital markets could have negative effects on our business that may be difficult to predict or anticipate, including the ability of our customers, vendors, contractors and financing sources to meet their contractual obligations. although we are unable to quantify the impact it has had on us, we are aware of a limited number of instances during the past several years where cancellations, changes in scope and failure to pay timely were attributable, at least in part, to difficulty in our customers' ability to obtain financing. in the future such actions by our customers could, if they involve a significant amount of business with us, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our effective income tax rate may fluctuate, which may adversely affect our operations, earnings and earnings per share. our effective income tax rate is influenced by our projected profitability in the various taxing jurisdictions in which we operate. changes in the distribution of profits and losses among taxing jurisdictions may have a significant impact on our effective income tax rate, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our net income and earnings per share. factors that may affect our effective income tax rate include, but are not limited to: the requirement to exclude from our quarterly worldwide effective income tax calculations losses in jurisdictions where no income tax benefit can be recognized; actual and projected full year pre-tax income; the repatriation of foreign earnings to the united states; changes in tax laws in various taxing jurisdictions; audits by taxing authorities; and the establishment of valuation allowances against deferred income tax assets if we determined that it is more likely than not that future income tax benefits will not be realized. these changes may cause fluctuations in our effective income tax rate that could adversely affect our results of operations and cause fluctuations in our earnings and earnings per share. we have only a limited ability to protect our intellectual property rights, and these rights are important to our success. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to develop, use and protect our proprietary methodologies, analytics, systems, technologies and other intellectual property. existing laws of the various countries in which we provide services or solutions offer only limited protection of our intellectual property rights, and the protection in some countries may be very limited. we rely upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, nondisclosure, invention assignment and other contractual arrangements, and patent, copyright and trademark laws, to protect our intellectual property rights. these laws are subject to change at any time and certain agreements may not be fully enforceable, which could further restrict our ability to protect our innovations. our intellectual property rights may not prevent competitors from independently developing services similar to or duplicative of ours. further, the steps we take in this regard might not be adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation of our intellectual property by competitors, former employees or other third parties, and we might not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. enforcing our rights might also require considerable time, money and oversight, and we may not be successful in enforcing our rights. depending on the circumstances, we might need to grant a specific customer greater rights in intellectual property developed in connection with a contract than we otherwise generally do. in certain situations, we might forego all rights to the use of intellectual property we create, which would limit our ability to reuse that intellectual property for other customers. any limitation on our ability to provide a service or solution could cause us to lose revenue-generating opportunities and require us to incur additional expenses to develop or license new or modified solutions for future projects. 25 our relationships with existing or potential customers who are in competition with each other may adversely imp act the degree to which other customers or potential customers use our services, which may adversely affect our results of operations. the biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive, with biopharmaceutical companies each seeking to persuade payers, providers and patients that their drug therapies are better and more cost-effective than competing therapies marketed or being developed by competing firms. in addition to the adverse competitive interests that biopharmaceutical companies have with each other, biopharmaceutical companies also have adverse interests with respect to drug selection and reimbursement with other participants in the healthcare industry, including payers and providers. biopharmaceutical companies also compete to be first to market with new drug therapies. we regularly provide services to biopharmaceutical companies who compete with each other, and we sometimes provide services or funding to such customers regarding competing drugs in development. our existing or future relationships with our biopharmaceutical customers may therefore deter other biopharmaceutical customers from using our services or may result in our customers seeking to place limits on our ability to serve other biopharmaceutical industry participants. in addition, our further expansion into the broader healthcare market may adversely impact our relationships with biopharmaceutical customers, and such customers may elect not to use our services, reduce the scope of services that we provide to them or seek to place restrictions on our ability to serve customers in the broader healthcare market with interests that are adverse to theirs. a loss of customers or reductions in the level of revenues from a customer could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, business and prospects. if we are unable to successfully identify, acquire and integrate existing businesses, services and technologies, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. we anticipate that a portion of our future growth may come from acquiring existing businesses, services or technologies. the success of any acquisition will depend upon, among other things, our ability to effectively integrate acquired personnel, operations, products and technologies into our business and to retain the key personnel and customers of our acquired businesses. in addition, we may be unable to identify suitable acquisition opportunities or obtain any necessary financing on commercially acceptable terms. we may also spend time and money investigating and negotiating with potential acquisition targets but not complete the transaction. any future acquisition could involve other risks, including, among others, the assumption of additional liabilities and expenses, difficulties and expenses in connection with integrating the acquired companies and achieving the expected benefits, issuances of potentially dilutive securities or interest-bearing debt, loss of key employees of the acquired companies, transaction costs, diversion of management's attention from other business concerns and, with respect to the acquisition of foreign companies, the inability to overcome differences in foreign business practices, language and customs. our failure to identify potential acquisitions, complete targeted acquisitions and integrate completed acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. investments in our customers' businesses or drugs and our related commercial rights strategies could have a negative impact on our financial performance. we may enter into arrangements with our customers or other drug companies in which we take on some of the risk of the potential success or failure of their businesses or drugs, including making strategic investments in our customers or other drug companies, providing financing to customers or other drug companies or acquiring an interest in the revenues from customers' drugs or in entities developing a limited number of drugs. as of december 31, 2015, we had approximately $51.1 million of such arrangements, and we were also committed to invest an additional $32.7 million in private equity funds that seeks to enter into similar risk-based arrangements. our financial results would be adversely affected if these investments or the underlying drugs result in losses or do not achieve the level of success that we anticipate and/or our return or payment from the drug investment or financing is less than our direct and indirect costs with respect to these arrangements. our results of operations may be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our goodwill and intangible assets. as of december 31, 2015, we had goodwill and net intangible assets of $1,087.8 million, which constituted approximately 27.7% of our total assets at the end of this period. we assess the realizability of our indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill annually and conduct an interim evaluation whenever events or changes in circumstances, such as operating losses or a significant decline in earnings associated with the acquired business or asset, indicate that these assets may be impaired. our ability to realize the value of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets will depend on the future cash flows of the businesses we have acquired, which in turn depend in part on how well we have integrated these businesses into our own business. if we are not able to realize the value of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. such impairment charges could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 26 we face risks arising from the restructuring of our operations. from time to time, we have adopted restructuring plans to improve our operating efficiency through various means such as reduction of overcapacity, elimination of non-billable support roles or other realignment of resources. for example, during 2015 and 2014 we recognized $30.8 million and $9.0 million, respectively, of restructuring charges, net of reversals for changes in estimates, related to restructuring plans. restructuring presents significant potential risks of events occurring that could adversely affect us, including; actual or perceived disruption of service or reduction in service standards to customers; the failure to preserve supplier relationships and distribution, sales and other important relationships and to resolve conflicts that may arise; loss of sales as we reduce or eliminate staffing on non-core services; diversion of management attention from ongoing business activities; and the failure to maintain employee morale and retain key employees. because of these and other factors, we cannot predict whether we will realize the purpose and anticipated benefits of these measures and, if we do not, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. additionally, there may be delays in implementing the restructuring activities or a failure to achieve the anticipated levels of cost savings and efficiency as a result of the restructuring activities, each of which could materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations. further restructuring or reorganization activities may also be required in the future beyond what is currently planned, which could further enhance the risks associated with these activities. we depend on third parties for critical support services. we depend on third parties for support services vital to our business. such support services include, but are not limited to, third-party transportation providers, suppliers of drugs for patients participating in clinical trials, suppliers of kits for use in our clinical trial laboratories business, suppliers of reagents for use in our testing equipment and providers of maintenance contracts for our equipment. the failure of any of these third parties to adequately provide the critical support services could have a material adverse effect on our business. risks relating to our industry the biopharmaceutical services industry is highly competitive. the biopharmaceutical services industry is highly competitive. we often compete for business with other biopharmaceutical services companies, internal discovery departments, development departments, and sales and marketing departments within our customers, some of which could be considered large biopharmaceutical services companies in their own right with greater resources than ours. we also compete with universities and teaching hospitals. if we do not compete successfully, our business will suffer. the industry is highly fragmented, with numerous smaller specialized companies and a handful of full-service companies with global capabilities similar to ours. increased competition has led to price and other forms of competition, such as acceptance of less favorable contract terms, that could adversely affect our operating results. there are few barriers to entry for smaller specialized companies considering entering the industry. because of their size and focus, these companies might compete effectively against larger companies such as us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. outsourcing trends in the biopharmaceutical industry and changes in aggregate spending and research and development budgets could adversely affect our operating results and growth rate. economic factors and industry trends that affect biopharmaceutical companies affect our business. biopharmaceutical companies continue to seek long-term strategic collaborations with global cros with favorable pricing terms. competition for these collaborations is intense and we may decide to forego an opportunity or we may not be selected, in which case a competitor may enter into the collaboration and our business with the customer, if any, may be limited. in addition, if the biopharmaceutical industry reduces its outsourcing of clinical trials and sales and marketing projects or such outsourcing fails to grow at projected rates, our operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. we may also be negatively impacted by consolidation and other factors in the biopharmaceutical industry, which may slow decision making by our customers or result in the delay or cancellation of clinical trials. our commercial services may be affected by reductions in new drug launches and increases in the number of drugs losing patent protection. all of these events could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. 27 we may be affected by healthcare reform and potential additional reforms. the united states congress continues to consider healthcare reform legislation and impose health industry cost containment measures, which may significantly impact the biopharmaceutical industry. in addition, numerous government bodies are considering or have adopted various healthcare reforms and may undertake, or are in the process of undertaking, efforts to control growing healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and biopharmaceutical companies. we are uncertain as to the effects of these recent reforms on our business and are unable to predict what legislative proposals, if any, will be adopted in the future. if regulatory cost containment efforts limit the profitability of new drugs, our customers may reduce their research and development spending or promotional, marketing and sales expenditures, which could reduce the business they outsource to us. similarly, if regulatory requirements are relaxed or simplified drug approval procedures are adopted, the demand for our services could decrease. foreign and domestic government bodies may also adopt healthcare legislation or regulations that are more burdensome than existing regulations. for example, product safety concerns and recommendations by the drug safety oversight board could change the regulatory environment for drug products, and new or heightened regulatory and licensing requirements may increase our expenses or limit or delay our ability to offer some of our services. additionally, new or heightened regulatory requirements may have a negative impact on the ability of our customers to conduct industry-sponsored clinical trials, which could reduce the need for our services. actions by government regulators or customers to limit a prescription's scope or withdraw an approved drug from the market could adversely affect our business and result in a loss of revenues. government regulators have the authority, after approving a drug, to limit its scope of prescription or withdraw it from the market completely based on safety concerns. similarly, customers may act to voluntarily limit the scope of prescription of drugs or withdraw them from the market. in the past, we have provided services with respect to drugs that have been limited and/or withdrawn. if we are providing services to customers for drugs that are limited or withdrawn, we may be required to narrow the scope of or terminate our services with respect to such drugs, which would prevent us from earning the full amount of service revenues anticipated under the related service contracts with negative impacts to our financial results. current and proposed laws and regulations regarding the protection of personal data could result in increased risks of liability or increased cost to us or could limit our service offerings. the confidentiality, collection, use and disclosure of personal data, including clinical trial patient-specific information, are subject to governmental regulation generally in the country that the personal data were collected or used. for example, united states federal regulations under the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, or hipaa, and as amended in 2014 by the health information technology for economic and clinical health ( hitech ) act, require individuals' written authorization, in addition to any required informed consent, before protected health information may be used for research. such regulations specify standards for deidentifications and for limited data sets. we are both directly and indirectly affected by the privacy provisions surrounding individual authorizations because many investigators with whom we are involved in clinical trials are directly subject to them as a hipaa covered entity and because we obtain identifiable health information from third parties that are subject to such regulations. as there are some instances where we are a hipaa business associate of a covered entity, we can also be directly liable for mishandling protected health information. under hipaa's enforcement scheme, we can be subject to up to $1.5 million in annual civil penalties for each hipaa violation. 28 in the eu personal data includes any information that relates to an identified or iden tifiable natural person with health information carrying additional obligations, including obtaining the explicit consent from the individual for collection, use or disclosure of the information. in addition, we are subject to eu rules with respect to cros s-border transfers of such data out of the eu. the united states, the eu and its member states, and other countries where we have operations, such as japan, south korea, malaysia, the philippines, russia and singapore, continue to issue new privacy and dat a protection rules and regulations that relate to personal data and health information. failure to comply with certain certification/registration and annual re-certification/registration provisions associated with these data protection and privacy regulati ons and rules in various jurisdictions, or to resolve any serious privacy complaints, could subject us to regulatory sanctions, criminal prosecution or civil liability. federal, state and foreign governments are contemplating or have proposed or adopted ad ditional legislation governing the collection, possession, use or dissemination of personal data, such as personal health information, and personal financial data as well as security breach notification rules for loss or theft of such data. additional legi slation or regulation of this type might, among other things, require us to implement new security measures and processes or bring within the legislation or regulation de-identified health or other personal data, each of which may require substantial expen ditures or limit our ability to offer some of our services. additionally, if we violate applicable laws, regulations or duties relating to the use, privacy or security of personal data, we could be subject to civil liability or criminal prosecution, be for ced to alter our business practices and suffer reputational harm. in the next few years, the european data protection framework may be revised as a generally applicable data regulation. the text has not yet been finalized, but it contains new provisions sp ecifically directed at the processing of health information, sanctions of up to 4% of worldwide gross revenue and extra-territoriality measures intended to bring non-eu companies under the proposed regulation. if we do not keep pace with rapid technological changes, our services may become less competitive or obsolete. the biopharmaceutical industry generally, and drug development and clinical research more specifically, are subject to rapid technological changes. our current competitors or other businesses might develop technologies or services that are more effective or commercially attractive than, or render obsolete, our current or future technologies and services. if our competitors introduce superior technologies or services and if we cannot make enhancements to remain competitive, our competitive position would be harmed. if we are unable to compete successfully, we may lose customers or be unable to attract new customers, which could lead to a decrease in our revenue and financial condition. the biopharmaceutical industry has a history of patent and other intellectual property litigation, and we might be involved in costly intellectual property lawsuits. the biopharmaceutical industry has a history of intellectual property litigation, and these lawsuits will likely continue in the future. accordingly, we may face patent infringement suits by companies that have patents for similar business processes or other suits alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights. legal proceedings relating to intellectual property could be expensive, take significant time and divert management's attention from other business concerns, regardless of the outcome of the litigation. if we do not prevail in an infringement lawsuit brought against us, we might have to pay substantial damages, and we could be required to stop the infringing activity or obtain a license to use technology on unfavorable terms. our customers face intense competition from lower cost generic products, which may lower the amount that they spend on our services. our customers face increasing competition from lower cost generic products, which in turn may affect their ability to pursue research and development activities with us. in the united states, eu and japan, political pressure to reduce spending on prescription drugs has led to legislation and other measures which encourages the use of generic products. in addition, proposals emerge from time to time in the united states and other countries for legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs. loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic substitutes, reducing our customers' sales of that product and their overall profitability. availability of generic substitutes for our customers' drugs may adversely affect their results of operations and cash flow, which in turn may mean that they would not have surplus capital to invest in research and development and drug commercialization, including in our services. if competition from generic products impacts our customers' finances such that they decide to curtail our services, our revenues may decline and this could have a material adverse effect on our business. 29 risks relating to our indebtedness our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial condition. as of december 31, 2015, we had $2.5 billion of total indebtedness, excluding $534.0 million of additional available borrowings under our revolving credit facilities. our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and thus make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness. if our cash flow is not sufficient to service our debt and adequately fund our business, we may be required to seek further additional financing or refinancing or dispose of assets. we may not be able to implement any of these alternatives on satisfactory terms or at all. our substantial indebtedness could also: increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic and industry conditions; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flows to fund working capital, investments, acquisitions, capital expenditures, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes; limit our ability to make required payments under our existing contractual commitments, including our existing long-term indebtedness; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; cause us to incur substantial fees from time to time in connection with debt amendments or refinancings; increase our exposure to rising interest rates because a portion of our borrowings is at variable interest rates; and limit our ability to borrow additional funds or to borrow on terms that are satisfactory to us. despite our level of indebtedness, we are able to incur more debt and undertake additional obligations. incurring such debt or undertaking such additional obligations could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition. although our credit agreement, which governs the senior credit facilities of our wholly owned subsidiary through which we conduct our operations, quintiles transnational corp., or quintiles transnational, contains restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could increase. in addition, the receivables financing agreement for our special purpose subsidiary, quintiles funding, llc, or quintiles funding, limits borrowing based on the amount of receivables purchased by quintiles funding from certain of our other subsidiaries, but when supported by the value of such purchased receivables, the debt under our receivables financing facility can increase. as of december 31, 2015, we had $534.0 million of additional available borrowings under our revolving credit facilities. while the credit agreement also contains restrictions on our and our restricted subsidiaries' ability to make loans and investments, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the investments incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. if we do not comply with the covenants governing our credit facilities and senior notes, we may not have the funds necessary to pay all of our indebtedness that could become due. the credit agreement governing our senior secured credit facilities requires us to comply with certain covenants. in particular, our credit agreement prohibits us from incurring any additional indebtedness, except in specified circumstances, or amending the terms of agreements relating to certain existing junior indebtedness, if any, in a manner materially adverse to the lenders under our credit agreement, without lender approval. further, our credit agreement contains customary covenants, including covenants that restrict our ability to acquire and dispose of assets, engage in mergers or reorganizations, pay dividends or make investments. our credit agreement contains one financial covenant, which is a total leverage ratio that provides for a maximum ratio of consolidated total debt to consolidated ebitda, as defined in the credit agreement, for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters, measured as of the end of such period, of 5.75 to 1.00. see liquidity and capital resources included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for more information on our covenants governing our credit facilities. in addition, our credit agreement requires us to make mandatory principal prepayments in certain circumstances, including with a portion of our excess cash flow if quintiles transnational's total leverage ratio (as defined in the credit agreement) exceeds certain levels. a violation of any of these covenants could cause an event of default under our credit agreement. 30 the receivables financing agreement for our receivables financing facility requires certain of our subsidiaries to transfer receivables with adequate value to the lender under that facility to support repayment of amounts outstanding. in the eve nt such transferred receivables are insufficient to support such outstanding amounts, we will be required to make prepayments under the receivables financing agreement. failure to make such prepayments or violations of the covenants in the receivables fina ncing agreement could cause an event of default under the receivables financing agreement. the indenture governing the senior notes of quintiles transnational requires us to comply with certain covenants, including covenants that limit our ability to create liens and enter into sale and lease-back transactions. in addition, u pon the occurrence of a change in control of quintiles transnational, each holder of senior notes may require quintiles transnational to repurchase all or a portion of the senior notes in cash at a price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the senior notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon. a violation of any of these covenants could cause an event of default under our indenture. if we default on our senior secured credit agreement, our receivables financing agreement or our senior notes as a result of our failure to pay principal or interest when due, our material breach of any representation, warranty or covenant, or any other reason, all outstanding amounts could become immediately due and payable under any or all of such agreements. in such case, we may not have sufficient funds to repay all the outstanding amounts. in addition, or in the alternative, the lenders under our senior secured credit agreement could exercise their rights under the security documents entered into in connection with the senior secured credit agreement. any acceleration of amounts due under the credit agreement governing our outstanding indebtedness or the substantial exercise by the lenders under our senior secured credit agreement of their rights under the security documents would likely have a material adverse effect on us. interest rate fluctuations may affect our results of operations and financial condition. because we have variable rate debt, fluctuations in interest rates affect our business. we attempt to minimize interest rate risk and lower our overall borrowing costs through the utilization of derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate swaps. we have entered into interest rate swaps with financial institutions that have reset dates and critical terms that match those of our senior secured term loan credit facility. accordingly, any change in market value associated with the interest rate swaps is offset by the opposite market impact on the related debt. as of december 31, 2015, we had approximately $1.7 billion of variable rate indebtedness. in june 2015, we entered into seven forward starting interest rate swaps with a notional value of $440.0 million which will be effective june 30, 2016 at which time we will have approximately $1.2 billion of variable rate indebtedness. the interest rate swaps expire between march 31, 2017 and march 31, 2020. because we do not attempt to hedge all of our variable rate debt, we may incur higher interest costs for the portion of our variable rate debt which is not hedged. once the interest rate swaps are effective, each quarter-point increase or decrease in the variable interest rate would result in our interest expense changing by approximately $3.1 million per year under our unhedged variable rate debt. risks relating to ownership of our common stock provisions of our corporate governance documents could make an acquisition of our company more difficult and may prevent attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our current management, even if beneficial to our shareholders. provisions of our amended and restated articles of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of our company that shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. these provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. in addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove members of our board. because our board is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn frustrate or prevent any attempt to replace or remove current members of our management team. among others, these provisions include (i) our ability to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval, (ii) the requirement that our shareholders may not act without a meeting, (iii) requirements for advance notification of shareholder nominations and proposals contained in our bylaws, (iv) the absence of cumulative voting for our directors, (v) requirements for shareholder approval of certain business combinations and (vi) the limitations on director nominations. 31 our operating results and share price may be volatile, which could cause the value of our shareholders' investments to decline. our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate in the future, and such fluctuations may be significant. in addition, securities markets worldwide have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, significant price and volume fluctuations. this market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could subject the market price of our shares to wide price fluctuations regardless of our operating performance. our operating results and the trading price of our shares may fluctuate in response to various factors, including: market conditions in the broader stock market; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual financial and operating results; introduction of new products or services by us or our competitors; issuance of new or changed securities analysts' reports or recommendations; sales, or anticipated sales, of large blocks of our stock; additions or departures of key personnel; regulatory or political developments; litigation and governmental investigations; changing economic conditions; and exchange rate fluctuations. these and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause our operating results and the market price for our shares to fluctuate substantially. while we believe that operating results for any particular quarter are not necessarily a meaningful indication of future results, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares and may otherwise negatively affect the market price and liquidity of our shares. in addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. if any of our shareholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management from our business, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation. there may be sales of a substantial amount of our common stock by our current shareholders, and these sales could cause the price of our common stock to fall. as of february 4, 2016, there were 119,384,993 shares of common stock outstanding. approximately 30.2% of our outstanding common stock is held by parties to the shareholders agreement. sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales will occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and make it difficult for us to raise funds through securities offerings in the future. shareholders that are a party to an amended and restated registration rights agreement, or the registration rights agreement, may require us to register their shares for resale under the federal securities laws. under the registration rights agreement, we are required to pay the registration expenses associated with the registration of such shares, not including the underwriting discounts, commissions and transfer taxes. registration of those shares would allow those shareholders to immediately resell their shares in the public market. any such sales or the anticipation of such sales may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. since we have no current plans to pay regular cash dividends on our common stock, shareholders may not receive any return on investment unless they sell their common stock for a price greater than that which they paid for it. although we have previously declared dividends to our shareholders, we do not currently anticipate paying any regular cash dividends on our common stock. any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors that our board may deem relevant. in addition, our ability to pay dividends is, and may be, limited by covenants of existing and any future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur, including under our existing credit facilities. therefore, any return on investment in our common stock is solely dependent upon the appreciation of the price of our common stock on the open market, which may not occur. see part ii, item 5 market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities policy for more detail. 32 the parties to the shareholders agreement have significant influence over us, including decisions that require the approval of our shareholders, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of matters submitted to shareholders for a vote. the parties to the shareholders agreement own approximately 30.2% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. among other things, the shareholders agreement requires such shareholders to vote in favor of certain nominees to our board. as a result, this group potentially has the ability to influence our decisions to enter into any corporate transaction (and the terms thereof), any change in the composition of our board and any transaction that requires shareholder approval regardless of whether others believe that such change or transaction is in our best interests. additionally, the parties to the shareholders agreement are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. one or more of the parties to the shareholders agreement may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. so long as the parties to the shareholders agreement continue to own a significant amount of our equity, if they exercise their shareholder rights collectively, they will be able to significantly influence our decisions. our amended and restated articles of incorporation contain a provision renouncing any interest and expectancy in certain corporate opportunities identified by certain of our affiliates, even if such corporate opportunities are ones that we might reasonably be deemed to have pursued or had the ability or desire to pursue. our amended and restated articles of incorporation provide for the allocation of certain corporate opportunities between us, on the one hand, and certain of our shareholders, on the other hand. as set forth in our amended and restated articles of incorporation, neither such shareholders, nor any director, officer, shareholder, member, manager, or employee of such shareholders, have any fiduciary duty or any other duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. to the full extent permitted by applicable law, we have renounced any interest or expectancy in, or in being offered an opportunity to participate in, business opportunities that are from time to time presented to certain of our shareholders, even if the opportunity is one that we might reasonably deem to have pursued or had the ability or desire to pursue, if granted, the opportunity to do so, and each such shareholders shall have no duty to communicate or offer such business opportunity to us and, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, shall not be liable to us or, to the extent applicable, any of its or their shareholders, for breach of any fiduciary or other duty, as a director or officer or otherwise, by reason of the fact that such shareholders pursues or acquires such business opportunity, directs such business opportunity to another person or fails to present such business opportunity, or information regarding such business opportunity, to us. therefore, a director or officer of our company who also serves as a director, officer, member, manager, or employee of such shareholders may pursue certain business opportunities, including acquisitions, that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, such opportunities may not be available to us. these potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or prospects if attractive corporate opportunities are allocated by such shareholders to themselves or their other affiliates instead of to us. 33 quantitative and qualitat ive disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices, such as foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and other relevant market rate or price changes. in the ordinary course of business, we are exposed to various market risks, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, and we regularly evaluate our exposure to such changes. our overall risk management strategy seeks to balance the magnitude of the exposure and the cost and availability of appropriate financial instruments. from time to time, we have utilized forward exchange contracts to manage our foreign currency exchange rate risk. the following analyses present the sensitivity of our financial instruments to hypothetical changes in rates that are reasonably possible over a one-year period. foreign currency exchange rates approximately 32% and 38% of our service revenues for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, were denominated in currencies other than the united states dollar. our financial statements are reported in united states dollars and, accordingly, fluctuations in exchange rates will affect the translation of our revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies into united states dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated financial results. in 2015 and 2014, the most significant currency exchange rate exposures were the euro, british pound, singapore dollar, indian rupee and japanese yen. excluding the impacts from any outstanding or future hedging transactions, a hypothetical change of 10% in average exchange rates used to translate all foreign currencies to united states dollars would have impacted income before income taxes for 2015 by approximately $45.4 million. accumulated currency translation adjustments recorded as a separate component of shareholders' deficit were ($116.8) million and ($55.7) million at december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. we do not have significant operations in countries in which the economy is considered to be highly-inflationary. we are subject to foreign currency transaction risk for fluctuations in exchange rates during the period of time between the consummation and cash settlement of a transaction. we earn revenue from our service contracts over a period of several months and, in some cases, over a period of several years. accordingly, exchange rate fluctuations during this period may affect our profitability with respect to such contracts. we limit our foreign currency transaction risk through exchange rate fluctuation provisions stated in our contracts with customers, or we may hedge our transaction risk with foreign currency exchange contracts. at december 31, 2015, we had 15 open foreign exchange forward contracts relating to service contracts with various amounts maturing monthly through september 2016 with a notional value totaling approximately $117.5 million. at december 31, 2014, we had 13 open foreign exchange forward contracts relating to service contracts with various amounts maturing monthly through september 2015 with a notional value totaling approximately $76.0 million. interest rates because we have variable rate debt, fluctuations in interest rates affect our business. we attempt to minimize interest rate risk and lower our overall borrowing costs through the utilization of derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate swaps. we have entered into interest rate swaps with financial institutions that have reset dates and critical terms that match those of our senior secured term loan credit facility. accordingly, any change in market value associated with the interest rate swaps is offset by the opposite market impact on the related debt. as of december 31, 2015, we had approximately $1.7 billion of variable rate indebtedness. in june 2015, we entered into seven forward starting interest rate swaps with a notional value of $440.0 million which will be effective june 30, 2016 at which time we will have approximately $1.2 billion of variable rate indebtedness. the interest rate swaps expire between march 31, 2017 and march 31, 2020. because we do not attempt to hedge all of our variable rate debt, we may incur higher interest costs for the portion of our variable rate debt which is not hedged. once the interest rate swaps are effective, each quarter-point increase or decrease in the variable interest rate would result in our interest expense changing by approximately $3.1 million per year under our unhedged variable rate debt. 60risk factors risk factors we operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. you should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below together with the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k, in evaluating our company. the occurrence of any of the following risks may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. risks relating to our business the potential loss or delay of our large contracts or of multiple contracts could adversely affect our results. most of our research &amp; development solutions clients can terminate our contracts upon 30 to 90 days notice. our clients may delay, terminate or reduce the scope of our contracts for a variety of reasons beyond our control, including but not limited to: decisions to forego or terminate a particular clinical trial; lack of available financing, budgetary limits or changing priorities; actions by regulatory authorities; production problems resulting in shortages of the drug being tested; failure of products being tested to satisfy safety requirements or efficacy criteria; unexpected or undesired clinical results for products; insufficient patient enrollment in a clinical trial; insufficient investigator recruitment; shift of business to a competitor or internal resources; product withdrawal following market launch; or shut down of manufacturing facilities. as a result, contract terminations, delays and alterations are a regular part of our research &amp; development solutions business. in the event of termination, our contracts often provide for fees for winding down the project, but these fees may not be sufficient for us to maintain our margins, and termination may result in lower resource utilization rates. in addition, we will not realize the full benefits of our backlog of contractually committed services if our clients cancel, delay or reduce their commitments under our contracts with them, which may occur if, among other things, a client decides to shift its business to a competitor or revoke our status as a preferred provider. thus, the loss or delay of a large contract or the loss or delay of multiple contracts could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. we believe the risk of loss or delay of multiple contracts potentially has greater effect where we are party to broader partnering arrangements with global biopharmaceutical companies. we depend on third parties for data and support services. our suppliers or providers might restrict our use of or refuse to license data or provide services, which could lead to our inability to access certain data or provide certain services and, as a result, materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. each of our commercial solutions information services is derived from data we collect from third parties. these data suppliers are numerous and diverse, reflecting the broad scope of information that we collect and use in our business. 15 although we typically enter into long-term contractual arrangements with many of these suppliers of data, at the time of entry into a new contract or renewal of an existing contract, suppliers may increase restrictions on our use of such data, increase the price they charge us for data or refuse altogether to license the data to us. in addition, during the term of any data supply contract, suppliers may fail to adhere to our data quality control standards or fail to deliver data. further, although no single individual data supplier is material to our business, if a number of suppliers collectively representing a significant amount of data that we use for one or more of our services were to impose additional contractual restrictions on our use of or access to data, fail to adhere to our quality-control standards, repeatedly fail to deliver data or refuse to provide data, now or in the future, our ability to provide those services to our clients could be materially adversely impacted, which may harm our operating results and financial condition. additionally, we depend on third parties for support services to our business. such support services include, but are not limited to, third-party transportation providers, suppliers of drugs for patients participating in clinical trials, suppliers of kits for use in our clinical trial laboratories business, suppliers of reagents for use in our testing equipment and providers of maintenance contracts for our equipment. the failure of any of these third parties to adequately provide the critical support services could have a material adverse effect on our business. if we fail to perform our services in accordance with contractual requirements, regulatory standards and ethical considerations, we could be subject to significant costs or liability and our reputation could be harmed. we contract with biopharmaceutical companies to perform a wide range of services to assist them in bringing new drugs to market. our services include monitoring clinical trials, data and laboratory analysis, electronic data capture, patient recruitment and other related services. such services are complex and subject to contractual requirements, regulatory standards and ethical considerations. for example, we must adhere to regulatory requirements such as the fda and current gcp, good laboratory practice and good manufacturing practice requirements. if we fail to perform our services in accordance with these requirements, regulatory agencies may take action against us for failure to comply with applicable regulations governing clinical trials or sales and marketing practices. such actions may include sanctions, such as injunctions or failure of such regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of products, delay, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, product seizures or recalls, operational restrictions, civil or criminal penalties or prosecutions, damages or fines. clients may also bring claims against us for breach of our contractual obligations and patients in the clinical trials and patients taking drugs approved on the basis of those clinical trials may bring personal injury claims against us for negligence. any such action could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and reputation. such consequences could arise if, among other things, the following occur: improper performance of our services. the performance of clinical development services is complex and time-consuming. for example, we may make mistakes in conducting a clinical trial that could negatively impact or obviate the usefulness of the clinical trial or cause the results of the clinical trial to be reported improperly. if the clinical trial results are compromised, we could be subject to significant costs or liability, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to perform our services. as examples: non-compliance generally could result in the termination of ongoing clinical trials or sales and marketing projects or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities; compromise of data from a particular clinical trial, such as failure to verify that informed consent was obtained from patients, could require us to repeat the clinical trial under the terms of our contract at no further cost to our client, but at a substantial cost to us; and breach of a contractual term could result in liability for damages or termination of the contract. large clinical trials can cost up to hundreds of millions of dollars, and while we endeavor to contractually limit our exposure to such risks, improper performance of our services could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, damage our reputation and result in the cancellation of current contracts by or failure to obtain future contracts from the affected client or other clients. investigation of clients. from time to time, one or more of our clients are audited or investigated by regulatory authorities or enforcement agencies with respect to regulatory compliance of their clinical trials, programs or the marketing and sale of their drugs. in these situations, we have often provided services to our clients with respect to the clinical trials, programs or activities being audited or investigated, and we are called upon to respond to requests for information by the authorities and agencies. there is a risk that either our clients or regulatory authorities could claim that we performed our services improperly or that we are responsible for clinical trial or program compliance. if our clients or regulatory authorities make such claims against us and prove them, we could be subject to damages, fines or penalties. in addition, negative publicity regarding regulatory compliance of our clients' clinical trials, programs or drugs could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. 16 insufficient client funding to complete a clinical trial. as noted above, clinical trials can cost hundreds of millions of dollars. there is a risk that we may initiate a clinical trial for a client, and then the client becomes unwilling or unable to fund the completion of the clinical trial. in such a situation, notwithstanding the client's ability or willingness to pay for or otherwise facilitate the completion of the clinical trial, we may be ethically bound to complete or wind down the clinical trial at our own expense. security breaches and unauthorized use of our it systems and information, or the it systems or information in the possession of our vendors, could expose us, our clients, our data suppliers or others to risk of loss. we rely upon the security of our computer and communications systems infrastructure to protect us from cyberattacks and unauthorized access. cyberattacks can include malware, computer viruses, hacking or other significant disruption of our computer, communications and related systems. cyber threats are rapidly evolving and are becoming increasingly sophisticated. despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems, as cyber threats evolve and become more difficult to detect and successfully defend against, one or more cyber threats might defeat the measures that we or our vendors take to anticipate, detect, avoid or mitigate such threats. certain techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, introduce malicious software, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems may be designed to remain dormant until a triggering event and we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures since techniques change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and because cyberattacks can originate from a wide variety of sources. although we take steps to manage and avoid these risks and to prevent their recurrence, our preventive and remedial actions may not be successful. such attacks, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in our incurring costs related to, for example, rebuilding internal systems, defending against litigation, responding to regulatory inquiries or actions, paying damages or fines, or taking other remedial steps with respect to third parties. publicity about vulnerabilities and attempted or successful incursions could damage our reputation with clients and data suppliers and reduce demand for our services. we also store proprietary and sensitive information in connection with our business, which could be compromised by a cyberattack. to the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data, an inappropriate disclosure of proprietary or sensitive information, an inability to access data sources, or an inability to process data or provide our offerings to our clients, it could cause significant damage to our reputation, affect our relationships with our data suppliers and clients (including loss of suppliers and clients), lead to claims against us and ultimately harm our business. we may be required to incur significant costs to alleviate, remedy or protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. we may also face inquiry or increased scrutiny from government agencies as a result of any such disruption or breach. while we have insurance coverage for certain instances of a cyber security breach, our coverage may not be sufficient if we suffer a significant attack or multiple attacks. any such breach or disruption could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and our reputation as a provider of mission-critical services. some of our vendors have significant responsibility for the security of certain of our data centers and computer-based platforms. also, our data suppliers have responsibility for security of their own computer and communications environments. these third parties face risks relating to cyber security similar to ours, which could disrupt their businesses and therefore materially impact ours. accordingly, we are subject to any flaw in or breaches to their computer and communications systems or those that they operate for us, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial results. failure to meet productivity objectives under our internal business transformation initiatives could adversely impact our competitiveness and harm our operating results. we are pursuing business transformation initiatives to update technology, increase innovation and obtain operating efficiencies. as part of these initiatives, we seek to improve our productivity, flexibility, quality, functionality and cost savings by investing in the development and implementation of global platforms and integration of our business processes and functions to achieve economies of scale. for example, we are moving local standardizing and cleaning from countries around the world to asia, and retiring local standardizing and cleaning systems. these various initiatives may not yield their intended gains, which may impact our competitiveness and our ability to meet our growth objectives and, as a result, materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 17 if we are unsuccessful at investing in growth opportunities, our business could be materially and adversely affected. we continue to invest significantly in growth opportunities, including the development and acquisition of new data, technologies and services to meet our clients' needs. for example, we are expanding our services and technology offerings, such as the development of a cloud-based platform with a growing number of applications to support commercial operations for life sciences companies (e.g., multi-channel marketing, marketing campaign management, customer relationship management, incentive compensation management, targeting and segmentation, performance management and other applications). we also continue to invest significantly in growth opportunities in emerging markets, such as the development, launch and enhancement of services in china, india, russia, turkey and other countries. we believe healthcare spending in these emerging markets will continue to grow over the next five years, and we consider our presence in these markets to be an important focus of our growth strategy. there is no assurance that our investment plans or growth strategy will be successful or will produce a sufficient or any return on our investments. further, if we are unable to develop new technologies and services, clients do not purchase our new technologies and services, our new technologies and services do not work as intended or there are delays in the availability or adoption of our new technologies and services, then we may not be able to grow our business or growth may occur slower than anticipated. additionally, although we expect continued growth in healthcare spending in emerging markets, such spending may occur more slowly or not at all, and we may not benefit from our investments in these markets. we plan to fund growth opportunities with cash from operations or from future financings. there can be no assurance that those sources will be available in sufficient amounts to fund future growth opportunities when needed. any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. data protection, privacy and similar laws in the united states and around the world restrict access, use and disclosure of personal information, and failure to comply with or adapt to changes in these laws could materially and adversely harm our business. the confidentiality, collection, use and disclosure of personal data, including individually identifiable health information and clinical trial patient-specific information, are subject to governmental regulation generally in the country that the personal data were collected or used. for example, united states federal regulations under the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 ( hipaa ) create specific requirements for the protection of the privacy and security of individual health information. these provisions apply to both covered entities (primarily health care providers and health insurers) and their business associates or service providers. as there are some instances where we are a hipaa business associate of a covered entity, we can be directly liable for mishandling protected health information. under hipaa's enforcement scheme, we can be subject to significant penalties in connection with hipaa violations, along with the potential for significant other expenditures related to these activities. these rules require individuals' written authorization in many situations, in addition to any required informed consent, before protected health information may be used for research. we are both directly and indirectly affected by the privacy provisions surrounding individual authorizations because many investigators with whom we are involved in clinical trials are directly subject to them as a hipaa covered entity and because we obtain identifiable health information from third parties that are subject to such regulations. the laws and regulations related to the protection of personal health information in connection with research activities are under re-evaluation, particularly in the united states, and changes to these regulations could have a material adverse impact on our ability to provide some of our services in their current form or maintain our profitability. in general, patient health information is among the most sensitive (and highly regulated) of personal information and laws and regulations around the united states and the world are designed to ensure that information about an individual's healthcare is properly protected from inappropriate access, use and disclosure. laws restricting access, use and disclosure of patient health information also include the european union's ( eu ) general data protection regulation, canada's personal information protection and electronic documents act and other data protection, privacy, data security and similar national, state/provincial and local laws. in the eu personal data includes any information that relates to an identified or identifiable natural person with health information carrying additional obligations, including obtaining the explicit consent from the individual for collection, use or disclosure of the information. in addition, we are subject to eu rules with respect to cross-border transfers of such data out of the eu (along with similar data transfer requirements in other countries). the united states, the eu and its member states, and other countries where we have operations, such as japan, south korea, malaysia, the philippines, russia and singapore, continue to issue new privacy and data protection rules and regulations that relate to personal data and health information. 18 we have established frameworks, models, processes and technologies to manage privacy and security for many data types, from a variety of sources, and under myriad privacy and data protection laws worldwide. in addition, we rely on our data suppliers to deliver information to us in a form and in a manner that complies with applicable privacy and data protection laws. these laws are complex and there is no assurance that the safeguards and controls employed by us or our data suppliers will be sufficient to prevent a breach of these laws, or that claims will not be filed against us or our data suppliers despite such safeguards and controls. failure to comply with such laws, certain certification/registration and annual re-certification/registration provisions associated with these data protection and privacy regulations, and similar rules in various jurisdictions, or to resolve any serious privacy complaints, may result in, among other things, regulatory sanctions, criminal prosecution, civil liability, negative publicity, damage to our reputation, or data being blocked from use or liability under contractual provisions. for example, in july 2015, indictments were issued by the seoul central district prosecutors' office in south korea against ims korea and two of its employees, among others, alleging improper handling of sensitive health information in violation of applicable privacy laws. see item 3 legal proceedings for additional information. laws and expectations relating to privacy continue to evolve, and we continue to adapt to changing needs. for example, the definition of personally identifiable information and personal data continues to evolve and broaden and many new laws and regulations are being enacted. in addition, certain long-established programs have been (or are at risk of being) declared invalid (such as the eu-u.s. safe harbor framework that operated for many years but was struck down by european courts in 2015), so that this area remains in a state of flux. changes to these programs may adversely impact our ability to provide services to our clients or develop new products or services. federal, state and foreign governments are contemplating or have proposed or adopted additional legislation governing the collection, possession, use or dissemination of personal data, such as personal health information, and personal financial data as well as security breach notification rules for loss or theft of such data. additional legislation or regulation of this type might, among other things, require us to implement new security measures and processes or bring within the legislation other personal data not currently regulated, each of which may require substantial expenditures or limit our ability to offer some of our services. additionally, changes in these laws (including newly released interpretations of these laws by courts and regulatory bodies) may limit our data access, use and disclosure, and may require increased expenditures by us or may dictate that we not offer certain types of services. any of the foregoing may have a material adverse impact on our ability to provide services to our clients or maintain our profitability. there is ongoing concern from privacy advocates, regulators and others regarding data protection and privacy issues, and the number of jurisdictions with data protection and privacy laws has been increasing. also, there are ongoing public policy discussions regarding whether the standards for de-identified, anonymous or pseudonymized health information are sufficient, and the risk of re-identification sufficiently small, to adequately protect patient privacy. these discussions may lead to further restrictions on the use of such information. there can be no assurance that these initiatives or future initiatives will not adversely affect our ability to access and use data or to develop or market current or future services. data protection, privacy and similar laws protect more than patient information, and although they vary by jurisdiction, these laws can extend to employee information, business contact information, provider information and other information relating to identifiable individuals. failure to comply with these laws may result in, among other things, civil and criminal liability, negative publicity, damage to our reputation and liability under contractual provisions. in addition, compliance with such laws may require increased costs to us or may dictate that we not offer certain types of services. the occurrence of any of the foregoing could impact our ability to provide the same level of service to our clients, require us to modify our offerings or increase our costs, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to develop, use and protect our proprietary methodologies, analytics, systems, technologies and other intellectual property. existing laws of the various countries in which we provide services or solutions offer only limited protection of our intellectual property rights, and the protection in some countries may be very limited. we rely upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, nondisclosure, invention assignment and other contractual arrangements, and patent, copyright and trademark laws, to protect our intellectual property rights. these laws are subject to change at any time and certain agreements may not be fully enforceable, which could further restrict our ability to protect our innovations. our intellectual property rights may not prevent competitors from independently developing services similar to or duplicative of ours. further, the steps we take in this regard might not be adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation of our intellectual property by competitors, former employees or other third parties, and we might not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. 19 our ability to obtain, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights is subject to general litigation or third-party opposition risks, as well as the uncertainty as to the scope of protection, registrability, patentability, validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights in each applicable country. governments may adopt regulations, and government agencies or courts may render decisions, requiring compulsory licensing of intellectual property rights. when we seek to enforce our intellectual property rights we may be subject to claims that the intellectual property rights are invalid or unenforceable. litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights and to protect our confidential and proprietary information. litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property rights. furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. our inability to protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use, as well as any costly litigation or diversion of our management's attention and resources, could delay further sales or the implementation of our solutions, impair the functionality of our solutions, delay introductions of new solutions, result in our substituting inferior or more costly technologies into our solutions, or injure our reputation and harm our operating results and financial condition. depending on the circumstances, we might need to grant a specific client greater rights in intellectual property developed in connection with a contract than we otherwise generally do. in certain situations, we might forego all rights to the use of intellectual property we create, which would limit our ability to reuse that intellectual property for other clients. any limitation on our ability to provide a service or solution could cause us to lose revenue-generating opportunities and require us to incur additional expenses to develop or license new or modified solutions for future projects. the theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information could reduce the differentiation of our services and harm our business; the value of our investment in development or business acquisitions could be reduced; and third parties might make claims against us related to losses of their confidential or proprietary information. in addition, we may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of our proprietary rights. third parties that license our proprietary rights also may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or reputation. the protection of our intellectual property may require the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. moreover, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may not adequately protect our rights or prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our proprietary rights. these incidents and claims could harm our business, reduce revenue, increase expenses and harm our reputation. we may be subject to claims by others that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights. third parties may assert claims that we or our clients infringe their intellectual property rights and these claims, with or without merit, could be expensive to litigate, cause us to incur substantial costs and divert management resources and attention in defending the claim. in some jurisdictions, plaintiffs can also seek injunctive relief that may limit the operation of our business or prevent the marketing and selling of our services that infringe on the plaintiff's intellectual property rights. to resolve these claims, we may enter into licensing agreements with restrictive terms or significant fees, stop selling, be required to implement costly redesigns to the affected services, or pay damages to satisfy contractual obligations to others. if we do not resolve these claims in advance of a trial, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in court. these outcomes may have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. in addition, certain contracts with our suppliers or clients contain provisions whereby we indemnify, subject to certain limitations, the counterparty for damages suffered as a result of claims related to intellectual property infringement and the use of our data. claims made under these provisions could be expensive to litigate and could result in significant payments. we rely on licenses from third parties to certain technology and intellectual property rights for some of our services and the licenses we currently have could terminate or expire. some of our business services rely on technology or intellectual property rights owned and controlled by others. our licenses to this technology or these intellectual property rights could be terminated or could expire. we may be unable to replace these licenses in a timely manner. failure to renew these licenses, or renewals of these licenses on less advantageous terms, could harm our operating results and financial condition. 20 our financial results may be adversely affected if we underprice our contracts, overrun our cost estimates or fail to receive approval for or experience delays in documenting change orders. most of our research &amp; development solutions contracts are either fee for service contracts or fixed-fee contracts. our past financial results have been, and our future financial results may be, adversely impacted if we initially underprice our contracts or otherwise overrun our cost estimates and are unable to successfully negotiate a change order. change orders typically occur when the scope of work we perform needs to be modified from that originally contemplated by our contract with the client. modifications can occur, for example, when there is a change in a key clinical trial assumption or parameter or a significant change in timing. where we are not successful in converting out-of-scope work into change orders under our current contracts, we bear the cost of the additional work. such underpricing, significant cost overruns or delay in documentation of change orders could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. the relationship of backlog to revenues varies over time. backlog represents future revenues for our research &amp; development solutions business from work not yet completed or performed under signed binding commitments and signed contracts. once work begins on a project, revenue is recognized over the duration of the project. projects may be terminated or delayed by the client or delayed by regulatory authorities for reasons beyond our control. to the extent projects are delayed, the timing of our revenue could be affected. in the event that a client cancels a contract, we typically would be entitled to receive payment for all services performed up to the cancellation date and subsequent client-authorized services related to terminating the canceled project. typically, however, we have no contractual right to the full amount of the revenue reflected in our backlog in the event of a contract cancellation. the duration of the projects included in our backlog, and the related revenue recognition, range from a few weeks to many years. our backlog may not be indicative of our future revenues from our research &amp; development solutions business, and we may not realize all the anticipated future revenue reflected in our backlog. a number of factors may affect backlog, including: the size, complexity and duration of the projects; the percentage of full services versus functional services; the cancellation or delay of projects; and change in the scope of work during the course of a project. although an increase in backlog will generally result in an increase in revenues to be recognized over time (depending on the level of cancellations), an increase in backlog at a particular point in time does not necessarily correspond directly to an increase in revenues during a particular period. the extent to which contracts in backlog will result in revenue depends on many factors, including but not limited to delivery against projected schedules, the need for scope changes (change orders), contract cancellations and the nature, duration, size, complexity and phase of the contracts, each of which factors can vary significantly from time to time. the rate at which our backlog converts to revenue may vary over time for a variety of reasons. the revenue recognition on larger, more global projects could be slower than on smaller, less global projects for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to an extended period of negotiation between the time the project is awarded to us and the actual execution of the contract, as well as an increased timeframe for obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals. additionally, the increased complexity of clinical trials and the need to enroll precise patient populations could extend the length of clinical trials causing revenue to be recognized over a longer period of time. further, delayed projects will remain in backlog, unless otherwise canceled by the client, and will not generate revenue at the rate originally expected. thus, the relationship of backlog to realized revenues may vary over time. 21 our business depends on the continued effectiveness and availability of our information systems, including the information systems we use to provide our services to our clients, and failures of these systems may materially limit our operations. due to the global nature of our business and our reliance on information systems to provide our services, we intend to increase our use of web-enabled and other integrated information systems in delivering our services. we also provide access to similar information systems to certain of our clients in connection with the services we provide them. as the breadth and complexity of our information systems continue to grow, we will increasingly be exposed to the risks inherent in the development, integration and ongoing operation of evolving information systems, including: disruption, impairment or failure of data centers, telecommunications facilities or other key infrastructure platforms; security breaches of, cyberattacks on and other failures or malfunctions in our critical application systems or their associated hardware; and excessive costs, excessive delays or other deficiencies in systems development and deployment. the materialization of any of these risks may impede the processing of data, the delivery of databases and services, and the day-to-day management of our business and could result in the corruption, loss or unauthorized disclosure of proprietary, confidential or other data. while we have disaster recovery plans in place, they might not adequately protect us in the event of a system failure. while many of our operations have disaster recovery plans in place, we currently do not have excess or standby computer processing or network capacity everywhere in the world to avoid disruption in the receipt, processing and delivery of data in the event of a system failure. despite any precautions we take, damage from fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, break-ins and similar events at our various computer facilities could result in interruptions in the flow of data to our servers and from our servers to our clients. corruption or loss of data may result in the need to repeat a clinical trial at no cost to the client, but at significant cost to us, the termination of a contract or damage to our reputation. in addition, any failure by our computer environment to provide sufficient processing or network capacity to transfer data could result in interruptions in our service. in the event of a delay in the delivery of data, we could be required to transfer our data collection operations to an alternative provider of server hosting services. such a transfer could result in significant delays in our ability to deliver services to our clients, and increase our costs. additionally, significant delays in system enhancements or inadequate performance of new or upgraded systems once completed could damage our reputation and harm our business. finally, long-term disruptions in the infrastructure caused by events such as natural disasters, the outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities and acts of terrorism, particularly involving cities in which we have offices, could adversely affect our businesses. although we carry property and business interruption insurance, our coverage might not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. we have continued to undertake significant programs to optimize business processes with respect to our services. our inability to effectively manage the implementation and adapt to new processes designed into new or upgraded systems in a timely and cost-effective manner may result in disruption to our business and negatively affect our operations. we have entered into agreements with certain vendors to provide systems development and integration services that develop or license to us the it platform for programs to optimize our business processes. if such vendors fail to perform as required or if there are substantial delays in developing, implementing and updating the it platform, our client delivery may be impaired, and we may have to make substantial further investments, internally or with third parties, to achieve our objectives. additionally, our progress may be limited by parties with existing or claimed patents who seek to enjoin us from using preferred technology or seek license payments from us. meeting our objectives is dependent on a number of factors which may not take place as we anticipate, including obtaining adequate technology-enabled services, creating it-enabled services that our clients will find desirable and implementing our business model with respect to these services. also, increased it-related expenditures may negatively impact our profitability. 22 we may experience challenges with the acquisition, development, enhancement or deployment of technology necessary for our business. we operate in businesses that require sophisticated computer systems and software for data collection, data processing, cloud-based platforms, analytics, cryptography, statistical projections and forecasting, mobile computing, social media analytics and other applications and technologies, particularly our commercial solutions business. we seek to address our technology risks by increasing our reliance on the use of innovations by cross-industry technology leaders and adapt these for our biopharmaceutical and healthcare industry clients. some of these technologies supporting the industries we serve are changing rapidly and we must continue to adapt to these changes in a timely and effective manner at an acceptable cost. we also must continue to deliver data to our clients in forms that are easy to use while simultaneously providing clear answers to complex questions. there can be no guarantee that we will be able to develop, acquire or integrate new technologies, that these new technologies will meet our clients' needs or achieve expected investment goals, or that we will be able to do so as quickly or cost-effectively as our competitors. significant technological change could render certain of our services obsolete. moreover, the introduction of new services embodying new technologies could render certain of our existing services obsolete. our continued success will depend on our ability to adapt to changing technologies, manage and process ever-increasing amounts of data and information and improve the performance, features and reliability of our services in response to changing client and industry demands. we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful design, development, testing, introduction or marketing of our services. new services, or enhancements to existing services, may not adequately meet the requirements of current and prospective clients or achieve any degree of significant market acceptance. these types of failures could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. consolidation in the industries in which our clients operate may reduce the volume of services purchased by consolidated clients following an acquisition or merger, which could materially harm our operating results and financial condition. mergers or consolidations among our clients have in the past and could in the future reduce the number of our clients and potential clients. when companies consolidate, overlapping services previously purchased separately are usually purchased only once by the combined entity, leading to loss of revenue. other services that were previously purchased by one of the merged or consolidated entities may be deemed unnecessary or cancelled. if our clients merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. there can be no assurance as to the degree to which we may be able to address the revenue impact of such consolidation. any of these developments could materially harm our operating results and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by client or therapeutic concentration. although we did not have any client that represented 10% or more of our revenues in 2017, 2016 and 2015, we derive the majority of our revenues from a number of large clients. if any large client decreases or terminates its relationship with us, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. additionally, conducting multiple clinical trials for different clients in a single therapeutic class involving drugs with the same or similar chemical action has in the past and may in the future adversely affect our business if some or all of the clinical trials are canceled because of new scientific information or regulatory judgments that affect the drugs as a class or if industry consolidation results in the rationalization of drug development pipelines. similarly, marketing and selling drugs for different biopharmaceutical companies with similar chemical actions subjects us to risk if new scientific information or regulatory judgment prejudices the drugs as a class, which may lead to compelled or voluntary prescription limitations or withdrawal of some or all of such drugs from the market. 23 our business is subject to international economic, political and other risks that could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. we have significant operations in countries that may require complex arrangements to deliver services throughout the world for our clients. additionally, we have established operations in locations remote from our most developed business centers. as a result, we are subject to heightened risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including the following: required compliance with a variety of local laws and regulations which may be materially different than those to which we are subject in the united states or which may change unexpectedly; for example, conducting a single clinical trial across multiple countries is complex, and issues in one country, such as a failure to comply with local regulations or restrictions, may affect the progress of the clinical trial in the other countries, for example, by limiting the amount of data necessary for a clinical trial to proceed, resulting in delays or potential cancellation of contracts, which in turn may result in loss of revenue; the united states or foreign countries could enact legislation or impose regulations or other restrictions, including unfavorable labor regulations, tax policies or economic sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business in or expatriate profits from the countries in which we operate, including hiring, retaining and overseeing qualified management personnel for managing operations in multiple countries, differing employment practices and labor issues, and tax-related risks, including the imposition of taxes and the lack of beneficial treaties, that result in a higher effective tax rate for us; foreign countries are expanding or may expand their regulatory framework with respect to patient informed consent, protection and compensation in clinical trials, which could delay or inhibit our ability to conduct clinical trials in such jurisdictions; the regulatory or judicial authorities of foreign countries may not enforce legal rights and recognize business procedures in a manner in which we are accustomed or would reasonably expect; local, economic, political and social conditions, including potential hyperinflationary conditions, political instability, and potential nationalization, repatriation, expropriation, price controls or other restrictive government actions, including changes in political and economic conditions may lead to changes in the business environment in which we operate, as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates; immigration laws are subject to legislative change and varying standards of application and enforcement due to political forces, economic conditions or other events (including proposals in the u.s. to change limitations on temporary and permanent workers), and local immigration laws may require us to meet certain other legal requirements as a condition to obtaining or maintaining entry visas, which may impact our ability to provide services to our clients; potential violations of local laws or anti-bribery laws, such as the united states foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ), and the uk bribery act, may cause difficulty in managing foreign operations, as well as significant consequences to us if those laws are violated; regulatory changes and economic conditions leading up to and following the uk's likely exit from the eu ( brexit ), including uncertainties as to its effect on trade laws, tariffs, instability and volatility in the global financial and currency markets, conflicting or redundant regulatory regimes in europe, such as the european medicines agency ( ema ) possible relocation from uk to a country within the european union, and political stability; clients in foreign jurisdictions may have longer payment cycles, and it may be more difficult to collect receivables in foreign jurisdictions; and natural disasters, pandemics or international conflict, including terrorist acts, could interrupt our services, endanger our personnel or cause project delays or loss of clinical trial materials or results. these risks and uncertainties could negatively impact our ability to, among other things, perform large, global projects for our clients. furthermore, our ability to deal with these issues could be affected by applicable united states laws and the need to protect our assets. any such risks could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 24 exchange rate fluctuations may affect our results of operations and financial condition. because a large portion of our revenues and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the united states dollar and our financial statements are reported in united states dollars, changes in foreign currency exchange rates could significantly affect our results of operations and financial condition. exchange rate fluctuations between local currencies and the united states dollar create risk in several ways, including: foreign currency translation risk . the revenue and expenses of our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies and translated into united states dollars for financial reporting purposes. accordingly, exchange rate fluctuations will affect the translation of foreign results into united states dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated results. foreign currency transaction risk . we are subject to foreign currency transaction risk for fluctuations in exchange rates during the period of time between the consummation and cash settlement of a transaction. we earn revenue from our service contracts over a period of several months and, in some cases, over several years. accordingly, exchange rate fluctuations during this period may affect our profitability with respect to such contracts. we may limit these risks through exchange rate fluctuation provisions stated in our service contracts, or we may hedge our transaction risk with foreign currency exchange contracts or options. we have not, however, hedged all of our foreign currency transaction risk, and we may experience fluctuations in financial results from our operations outside the united states and foreign currency transaction risk associated with our service contracts. due to the global nature of our business, we may be exposed to liabilities under anti-corruption laws, including the united states foreign corrupt practices act, the united kingdom bribery act and various international anti-corruption laws, and any allegation or determination that we violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are required to comply with the fcpa, the uk bribery act and other international anti-corruption laws, which prohibit companies from engaging in bribery including corruptly or improperly offering, promising, or providing money or anything else of value to non-united states officials and certain other recipients. in addition, the fcpa imposes certain books, records, and accounting control obligations on public companies and other issuers. we operate in parts of the world in which corruption can be common and compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. our global operations face the risk of unauthorized payments or offers being made by employees, consultants, sales agents, and other business partners outside of our control or without our authorization. it is our policy to implement safeguards to prohibit these practices by our employees and business partners with respect to our operations. however, irrespective of these safeguards, or as a result of monitoring compliance with such safeguards, it is possible that we or certain other parties may discover or receive information at some point that certain employees, consultants, sales agents, or other business partners may have engaged in corrupt conduct for which we might be held responsible. violations of the fcpa, the uk bribery act or other international anti-corruption laws may result in restatements of, or irregularities in, our financial statements as well as severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. in some cases, companies that violate the fcpa may be debarred by the united states government and/or lose their united states export privileges. changes in anti-corruption laws or enforcement priorities could also result in increased compliance requirements and related costs which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the united states or other governments may seek to hold us liable for successor liability fcpa violations or violations of other anti-corruption laws committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquired or will acquire. we face risks related to sales to government entities. we derive a portion of our revenue from sales to government entities in the united states. in general, our contracts with united states government entities are terminable at will by the government entity at any time. government demand and payment for our services may be affected by public-sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations, including government shutdowns. government contracts are subject to oversight, including special rules on accounting, expenses, reviews and security. failure to comply with these rules could result in civil and criminal penalties and sanctions, including termination of contracts, fines and suspensions, or debarment from future business with the united states government. as a result, failure to comply with these rules could have an adverse effect on our future business, reputation, operating results and financial condition. 25 if we are unable to successfully develop and market new services or enter new markets, our growth, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. a key element of our growth strategy is the successful development and marketing of new services or entering new markets that complement or expand our existing business. as we develop new services or enter new markets, including services targeted at participants in the broader healthcare industry, we may not have or adequately build the competencies necessary to perform such services satisfactorily, may not receive market acceptance for such services or may face increased competition. if we are unable to succeed in developing new services, entering new markets or attracting a client base for our new services or in new markets, we will be unable to implement this element of our growth strategy, and our future business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. our research &amp; development solutions business could subject us to potential liability that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our research &amp; development solutions business involves the testing of new drugs on patients in clinical trials and, if marketing approval is granted, the availability of these drugs to be prescribed to patients. our involvement in the clinical trials and development process creates a risk of liability for personal injury to or death of patients, particularly those with life-threatening illnesses, resulting from adverse reactions to the drugs administered during testing or after product launch, respectively. for example, we have from time to time been sued and may be sued in the future by individuals alleging personal injury due to their participation in clinical trials and seeking damages from us under a variety of legal theories. although we maintain the types and amounts of insurance we view as customary in the industries and countries in which we operate, if we are required to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with any personal injury claim that is outside the scope of indemnification agreements we have with our clients, if any indemnification agreement is not performed in accordance with its terms or if our liability exceeds the amount of any applicable indemnification limits or available insurance coverage, our financial condition, results of operations and reputation could be materially and adversely affected. we maintain professional liability insurance, including liability for completed operations coverage. in the future, we may not be able to get adequate insurance for these types of risks at reasonable rates. we also contract with physicians to serve as investigators in conducting clinical trials. if the investigators commit errors or make omissions during a clinical trial that result in harm to clinical trial patients or after a clinical trial to a patient using the drug after it has received regulatory approval, claims for personal injury or liability damages may result. additionally, if the investigators engage in fraudulent behavior, clinical trial data may be compromised, which may require us to repeat the clinical trial or subject us to liability. we do not believe we are legally responsible for the medical care rendered by such third-party investigators, and we would vigorously defend any claims brought against us. however, it is possible we could be found liable for claims with respect to the actions of third-party investigators, which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. some of our research &amp; development solutions services involve direct interaction with clinical trial subjects or volunteers and operation of phase i clinical facilities, which could create potential liability that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. we operate facilities where phase i clinical trials are conducted, which ordinarily involve testing an investigational drug on a limited number of healthy individuals, typically 20 to 80 persons, to determine such drug's basic safety. failure to operate such a facility in accordance with applicable regulations could result in that facility being shut down, which could disrupt our operations. additionally, we face risks associated with adverse events resulting from the administration of such drugs to healthy volunteers and the professional malpractice of medical care providers. occasionally, physicians employed at our phase i clinical facilities act as principal investigators in later-phase clinical trials at those same facilities. we also directly employ nurses and other trained employees who assist in implementing the testing involved in our clinical trials, such as drawing blood from healthy volunteers. any professional malpractice or negligence by such investigators, nurses or other employees could potentially result in liability to us in the event of personal injury to or death of a healthy volunteer in clinical trials. this liability, particularly if it were to exceed the limits of any indemnification agreements and insurance coverage we may have, may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. 26 our integrated engagement services business could result in liability to us if a drug causes harm to a patient. while we are generally indemnified and insured against such risks, we may still suffer financial losses. when we market drugs under contract for a biopharmaceutical company, we could suffer liability for harm allegedly caused by those drugs, either as a result of a lawsuit against the biopharmaceutical company to which we are joined, a lawsuit naming us or any of our subsidiaries or an action launched by a regulatory body. while we are generally indemnified by the biopharmaceutical company for the action of the drugs we market on its behalf, and we carry insurance to cover harm caused by our negligence in performing services, it is possible that we could nonetheless incur financial losses, regulatory penalties or both. in particular, any claim could result in potential liability for us if the claim is outside the scope of the indemnification agreement we have with the biopharmaceutical company, the biopharmaceutical company does not abide by the indemnification agreement as required or the liability exceeds the amount of any applicable indemnification limits or available insurance coverage. such a finding could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. furthermore, negative publicity associated with harm caused by drugs we helped to market could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. our insurance may not cover all of our indemnification obligations and other liabilities associated with our operations. we maintain insurance designed to provide coverage for ordinary risks associated with our operations and our ordinary indemnification obligations. the coverage provided by such insurance may not be adequate for all claims we may make or may be contested by our insurance carriers. if our insurance is not adequate or available to pay liabilities associated with our operations, or if we are unable to purchase adequate insurance at reasonable rates in the future, our profitability may be adversely impacted. if we are unable to attract suitable investigators and patients for our clinical trials, our clinical development business might suffer. the timely recruitment of investigators and patients for clinical trials is essential to our research &amp; development solutions business. investigators are typically located at hospitals, clinics or other sites and supervise the administration of the investigational drug to patients during the course of a clinical trial. patients generally include people from the communities in which the clinical trials are conducted. our clinical development business could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract suitable and willing investigators or patients for clinical trials on a consistent basis. for example, if we are unable to engage investigators to conduct clinical trials as planned or enroll sufficient patients in clinical trials, we might need to expend additional funds to obtain access to resources or else be compelled to delay or modify the clinical trial plans, which may result in additional costs to us. if we lose the services of key personnel or are unable to recruit additional qualified personnel, our business could be adversely affected. our success substantially depends on the collective performance, contributions and expertise of our personnel including senior management and key personnel, qualified professional, scientific and technical operating staff and qualified sales representatives for our contract sales services. there is significant and increasing competition for qualified personnel, particularly those with higher educational degrees, such as a medical degree, a ph.d. or an equivalent degree, or relevant experience in the industry and in the locations in which we operate. in addition, the departure of our key employees, or our inability to continue to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel or replace any departed personnel in a timely fashion, may impact our ability to grow our business and compete effectively in our industry and may negatively affect our ability to meet financial and operational goals. disruptions in the credit and capital markets and unfavorable general economic conditions could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. disruptions in the credit and capital markets could have negative effects on our business that may be difficult to predict or anticipate, including the ability of our clients, vendors, contractors and financing sources to meet their contractual obligations. although we are unable to quantify the impact it has had on us, we are aware of a limited number of instances in our research &amp; development solutions business during the past several years where cancellations, changes in scope and failure to pay timely were attributable, at least in part, to difficulty in our clients' ability to obtain financing. in the future such actions by our clients could, if they involve a significant amount of business with us, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 27 our effective income tax rate may fluctuate for a variety of reasons, including the tax cuts and jobs act enacted in 2017 (the tax act ), which may adversely affect our operations, earnings and earnings per share. our effective income tax rate is influenced by our projected profitability in the various taxing jurisdictions in which we operate. changes in a jurisdiction's income tax rates and the distribution of our profits and losses among such jurisdictions may have a significant impact on our effective income tax rate, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our net income and earnings per share. factors that may affect our effective income tax rate include, but are not limited to: the requirement to exclude from our quarterly worldwide effective income tax calculations losses in jurisdictions where no income tax benefit can be recognized; actual and projected full year pre-tax income; changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities; the repatriation of foreign earnings to the united states; changes in tax laws in various jurisdictions, including the tax act; audits by taxing authorities; and the establishment of valuation allowances against deferred income tax assets if we determined that it is more likely than not that future income tax benefits will not be realized. in addition, our effective income tax rate is influenced by u.s. tax law which has been substantially modified by the tax act. the following provisions of the tax act could have an adverse effect on our tax rate if it is determined that the provisions are applicable to us: anti-base erosion and profit shifting; global intangible low-taxed income; deduction for net business interest limited to 30% of adjusted taxable income; and performance-based compensation and commissions now subject to $1 million limit. all of these items described above may cause fluctuations in our effective income tax rate through increased u.s. tax liability and/or the loss of tax attributes in any given year that could adversely affect our results of operations and impact our earnings and earnings per share. additional information regarding our income taxes is presented in note 18 to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. changes in accounting standards issued by the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ), including asc 606 revenue from contracts with customers (asc 606), or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements. we are required to prepare our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states of america ( gaap ), which is periodically revised and/or expanded. from time to time, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the fasb and the sec. it is possible that future accounting standards we are required to adopt, such as amended guidance for leases, may require additional changes to the current accounting treatment that we apply to our financial statements and may require us to make significant changes to our reporting systems. such changes could result in a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. for example, effective january 1, 2018, we were required to adopt asc 606. under this new standard, the company is required to recognize revenue for its clinical trial arrangements on a percentage of completion basis. this change in revenue recognition requires significant estimates of project costs that will need to be updated and adjusted on a regular basis. these updates and adjustments are likely to result in variability in our revenue recognition from period to period that may cause unexpected variability in our operating results. see note 1 to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for details regarding asc 606. 28 our relationships with existing or potential clients who are in competition with each other may adversely impact the degree to which other clients or potential clients use our services, which may adversely affect our results of operations. the biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive, with biopharmaceutical companies each seeking to persuade payers, providers and patients that their drug therapies are better and more cost-effective than competing therapies marketed or being developed by competing firms. in addition to the adverse competitive interests that biopharmaceutical companies have with each other, biopharmaceutical companies also have adverse interests with respect to drug selection and reimbursement with other participants in the healthcare industry, including payers and providers. biopharmaceutical companies also compete to be first to market with new drug therapies. we regularly provide services to biopharmaceutical companies who compete with each other, and we sometimes provide services or funding to such clients regarding competing drugs in development. our existing or future relationships with our biopharmaceutical clients may therefore deter other biopharmaceutical clients from using our services or may result in our clients seeking to place limits on our ability to serve other biopharmaceutical industry participants in connection with drug development activities. in addition, our further expansion into the broader healthcare market may adversely impact our relationships with biopharmaceutical clients, and such clients may elect not to use our services, reduce the scope of services that we provide to them or seek to place restrictions on our ability to serve clients in the broader healthcare market with interests that are adverse to theirs. a loss of clients or reductions in the level of revenues from a client could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, business and prospects. if we are unable to successfully identify, acquire and integrate existing businesses, services and technologies, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. we anticipate that a portion of our future growth may come from acquiring existing businesses, services or technologies. the success of any acquisition will depend upon, among other things, our ability to effectively integrate acquired personnel, operations, services and technologies into our business and to retain the key personnel and clients of our acquired businesses. in addition, we may be unable to identify suitable acquisition opportunities or obtain any necessary financing on commercially acceptable terms. we may also spend time and money investigating and negotiating with potential acquisition targets but not complete the transaction. any future acquisition could involve other risks, including, among others, the assumption of additional liabilities and expenses, difficulties and expenses in connection with integrating the acquired companies and achieving the expected benefits, issuances of potentially dilutive securities or interest-bearing debt, loss of key employees of the acquired companies, transaction costs, diversion of management's attention from other business concerns and, with respect to the acquisition of foreign companies, the inability to overcome differences in foreign business practices, language and customs. our failure to identify potential acquisitions, complete targeted acquisitions and integrate completed acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. investments in our clients' businesses or drugs and our related commercial rights strategies could have a negative impact on our financial performance. we may enter into arrangements with our clients or other drug companies in which we take on some of the risk of the potential success or failure of their businesses or drugs, including making strategic investments in our clients or other drug companies, providing financing to clients or other drug companies or acquiring an interest in the revenues from clients' drugs or in entities developing a limited number of drugs. our financial results would be adversely affected if these investments or the underlying drugs result in losses or do not achieve the level of success that we anticipate and/or our return or payment from the drug investment or financing is less than our direct and indirect costs with respect to these arrangements. our results of operations may be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our goodwill and intangible assets. we assess the realizability of our indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill annually and conduct an interim evaluation whenever events or changes in circumstances, such as operating losses or a significant decline in earnings associated with the acquired business or asset, indicate that these assets may be impaired. for example, we recognized $40 million of impairment losses during the year ended december 31, 2017, for goodwill and intangible assets in encore health resources llc ( encore ), which we sold in the third quarter of 2017. our ability to realize the value of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets will depend on the future cash flows of the businesses we have acquired, which in turn depend in part on how well we have integrated these businesses into our own business. if we are not able to realize the value of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. such impairment charges could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 29 we face risks arising from the restructuring of our operations. from time to time, we have adopted restructuring plans to improve our operating efficiency through various means such as reduction of overcapacity, elimination of non-billable support roles or other realignment of resources. restructuring presents significant potential risks of events occurring that could adversely affect us, including: actual or perceived disruption of service or reduction in service standards to clients; the failure to preserve supplier relationships and distribution, sales and other important relationships and to resolve conflicts that may arise; loss of sales as we reduce or eliminate staffing on non-core services; diversion of management attention from ongoing business activities; and the failure to maintain employee morale and retain key employees. further, any such restructuring would result in charges that, if material, could harm our results of operations and significantly reduce our cash position or increase debt. in addition, we may incur certain unforeseen costs once any restructuring activities are implemented. further, if we determine to effect any restructuring, we can give no assurance that any projected cost reductions resulting from such restructuring activities will be achieved within the expected timeframe, or at all. because of these and other factors, we cannot predict whether we will realize the purpose and anticipated benefits of these measures and, if we do not, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. additionally, there may be delays in implementing the restructuring activities or a failure to achieve the anticipated levels of cost savings and efficiency as a result of the restructuring activities, each of which could materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations. further restructuring or reorganization activities may also be required in the future beyond what is currently planned, which could further enhance the risks associated with these activities. risks relating to our industry the biopharmaceutical services industry is highly competitive. the biopharmaceutical services industry is highly competitive. our business often competes with other biopharmaceutical services companies, internal discovery departments, development departments, sales and marketing departments, information technology departments and other departments within our clients, some of which could be considered large biopharmaceutical services companies in their own right with greater resources than ours. we also compete with universities, teaching hospitals, governments agencies and others. if we do not compete successfully, our business will suffer. the industry is highly fragmented, with numerous smaller specialized companies and a handful of companies with global capabilities similar to certain of our own capabilities. increased competition has led to price and other forms of competition, such as acceptance of less favorable contract terms, that could adversely affect our operating results. there are few barriers to entry for companies considering offering any one or more of the services we offer. because of their size and focus, these companies might compete effectively against us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. our future growth and success will depend on our ability to successfully compete with other companies that provide similar services in the same markets, some of which may have financial, marketing, technical and other advantages. we also expect that competition will continue to increase as a result of consolidation among these various companies. large technology companies with substantial resources, technical expertise and greater brand power could also decide to enter or further expand in the markets where our business operates and compete with us. if one or more of our competitors or potential competitors were to merge or partner with another of our competitors, or if a new entrant emerged with substantial resources, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. we compete on the basis of various factors, including breadth and depth of services, reputation, reliability, quality, innovation, security, price and industry expertise and experience. in addition, our ability to compete successfully may be impacted by the growing availability of health information from social media, government health information systems and other free or low-cost sources. consolidation or integration of wholesalers, retail pharmacies, health networks, payers or other healthcare stakeholders may lead any of them to provide information services directly to clients or indirectly through a designated service provider, resulting in increased competition from firms that may have lower costs to market (e.g., no data supply costs). any of the above may result in lower demand for our services, which could result in a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. 30 outsourcing trends in the biopharmaceutical industry and changes in aggregate spending and research and development budgets could adversely affect our operating results and growth rate. economic factors and industry trends that affect biopharmaceutical companies affect our research &amp; development solutions business. biopharmaceutical companies continue to seek long-term strategic collaborations with global contract research organizations with favorable pricing terms. competition for these collaborations is intense and we may decide to forego an opportunity or we may not be selected, in which case a competitor may enter into the collaboration and our business with the client, if any, may be limited. in addition, if the biopharmaceutical industry reduces its research &amp; development solutions activities or reduces its outsourcing of clinical trials and sales and marketing projects or such outsourcing fails to grow at projected rates, our operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. we may also be negatively impacted by consolidation and other factors in the biopharmaceutical industry, which may slow decision making by our clients or result in the delay or cancellation of clinical trials. our commercial services may be affected by reductions in new drug launches and increases in the number of drugs losing patent protection. all of these events could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. our business may be materially and adversely impacted by factors affecting the biopharmaceutical and healthcare industries. the vast majority of our revenue is generated from sales to the biopharmaceutical and healthcare industries. the clients we serve in these industries are commonly subject to financial pressures, including, but not limited to, increased costs, reduced demand for their products, reductions in pricing and reimbursement for products and services, formulary approval and placement, government approval to market their products and limits on the manner by which they market their products, loss of patent exclusivity (whether due to patent expiration or as a result of a successful legal challenge) and the proliferation of or changes to regulations applicable to these industries. to the extent our clients face such pressures, or they change how they utilize our offerings, the demand for our services, or the prices our clients are willing to pay for those services, may decline. any such decline could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. we may be affected by healthcare reform and potential additional reforms. the united states congress continues to consider healthcare reform legislation and impose health industry cost containment measures, which may significantly impact the biopharmaceutical industry. in addition, numerous government bodies are considering or have adopted various healthcare reforms and may undertake, or are in the process of undertaking, efforts to control growing healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and biopharmaceutical companies. we are uncertain as to the effects of these recent reforms on our business and are unable to predict what legislative proposals, if any, will be adopted in the future. if regulatory cost containment efforts limit the profitability of new drugs, our clients may reduce their research and development spending or promotional, marketing and sales expenditures, which could reduce the business they outsource to us. similarly, if regulatory requirements are relaxed or simplified drug approval procedures are adopted, the demand for our services could decrease. foreign and domestic government bodies may also adopt healthcare legislation or regulations that are more burdensome than existing regulations. for example, product safety concerns and recommendations by the drug safety oversight board could change the regulatory environment for drug products, and new or heightened regulatory and licensing requirements may increase our expenses or limit or delay our ability to offer some of our services. additionally, new or heightened regulatory requirements may have a negative impact on the ability of our clients to conduct industry-sponsored clinical trials, which could reduce the need for our services. actions by government regulators or clients to limit a prescription's scope or withdraw an approved drug from the market could adversely affect our business and result in a loss of revenues. government regulators have the authority, after approving a drug, to regulate or limit its scope of prescription or withdraw it from the market completely based on safety concerns. similarly, clients may act to voluntarily limit the scope of prescription of drugs or withdraw them from the market. in the past, we have provided services with respect to drugs that have been limited and/or withdrawn. if we are providing services to clients for drugs that are limited or withdrawn, we may be required to narrow the scope of or terminate our services with respect to such drugs, which would prevent earning the full amount of revenues anticipated under the related service contracts with negative impacts to our financial results. 31 if we do not keep pace with rapid technological changes, our services may become less competitive or obsolete. the biopharmaceutical industry is subject to rapid technological changes. our current competitors or other businesses might develop technologies or services that are more effective or commercially attractive than, or render obsolete, our current or future technologies and services. if our competitors introduce superior technologies or services and if we cannot make enhancements to remain competitive, our competitive position would be harmed. if we are unable to compete successfully, we may lose clients or be unable to attract new clients, which could lead to a decrease in our revenue and financial condition. laws restricting biopharmaceutical sales and marketing practices may adversely impact demand for our services. there have been a significant number of laws, legislative initiatives and regulatory actions over the years that seek to limit biopharmaceutical sales and marketing practices. for example, three states in 2006 and 2007 passed laws restricting the use of prescriber identifiable information for the purpose of promoting branded prescription medicines. although these laws were subsequently declared to be unconstitutional based on a decision of the u.s. supreme court in sorrell v. ims health in 2011, we are unable to predict whether, and in what form, other initiatives may be introduced or actions taken at the state or federal levels to limit biopharmaceutical sales and marketing practices. in addition, while we will continue to seek to adapt our services to comply with the requirements of these laws (to the extent applicable to our services), if enacted, there can be no assurance that our efforts to adapt our offerings will be successful and provide the same financial contribution to us. there can also be no assurance that future legislative initiatives will not adversely affect our ability to develop or market current or future offerings, or that any future laws will not diminish the demand for our services, all of which could, over time, result in a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. our research &amp; development solutions clients face intense competition from lower cost generic products, which may lower the amount that they spend on our services. our research &amp; development solutions clients face increasing competition from lower cost generic products, which in turn may affect their ability to pursue research and development activities with us. in the united states, eu and japan, political pressure to reduce spending on prescription drugs has led to legislation and other measures which encourages the use of generic products. in addition, proposals emerge from time to time in the united states and other countries for legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs. loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic substitutes, reducing our clients' sales of that product and their overall profitability. availability of generic substitutes for our clients' drugs may adversely affect their results of operations and cash flow, which in turn may mean that they would not have surplus capital to invest in research and development and drug commercialization, including in our services. if competition from generic products impacts our clients' finances such that they decide to curtail our services, our revenues may decline and this could have a material adverse effect on our business. 32 risks relating to our indebtedness restrictions imposed in the senior secured credit facilities and other outstanding indebtedness, including the indentures governing iqvia holdings inc. outstanding notes, may limit our ability to operate our business and to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. the terms of the senior secured credit facilities restrict iqvia and its restricted subsidiaries from engaging in specified types of transactions. these covenants restrict the ability of iqvia and its restricted subsidiaries, among other things, to: incur liens; make investments and loans; incur indebtedness or guarantees; issue preferred stock of a restricted subsidiary; issue disqualified equity; engage in mergers, acquisitions and asset sales; declare dividends, make payments or redeem or repurchase equity interests; alter the business iqvia and its restricted subsidiaries conduct; make restricted payments; enter into agreements limiting restricted subsidiary distributions; prepay, redeem or purchase certain indebtedness; and engage in certain transactions with affiliates. in addition, the revolving credit facility and the new term loans under our senior secured credit facility require iqvia to comply with a quarterly maximum senior secured net leverage ratio test and minimum interest coverage ratio test. iqvia's ability to comply with these financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and iqvia may not be able to satisfy them. additionally, the restrictions contained in the indentures governing the outstanding notes could also limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet capital needs or make acquisitions or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the senior secured credit facilities or the indentures governing the outstanding notes, which could trigger acceleration of our indebtedness and may result in the acceleration of or default under any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial results. in the event of any default under the senior secured credit facilities, the applicable lenders could elect to terminate borrowing commitments and declare all borrowings and loans outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and any fees and other obligations, to be due and payable. in addition, or in the alternative, the applicable lenders could exercise their rights under the security documents entered into in connection with the senior secured credit facilities. iqvia and the other subsidiary guarantors have pledged substantially all of their tangible and intangible assets (subject to customary exceptions) as collateral under the senior secured credit facilities, including the stock and the assets of certain of our current and future wholly owned united states subsidiaries and a portion of the stock of certain of our non-united states subsidiaries. if we were unable to repay or otherwise refinance these borrowings and loans when due, the applicable lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness, which could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation. in the event the applicable lenders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. any acceleration of amounts due under the credit agreement governing the senior secured credit facilities or the exercise by the applicable lenders of their rights under the security documents would likely have a material adverse effect on us. 33 despite our level of indebtedness, we are able to incur more debt and undertake additional obligations. incurring such debt or undertaking such additional obligations could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition. although our credit agreement, which governs the senior credit facilities of our wholly owned subsidiary through which we conduct our operations, iqvia inc. ( opco ), contains restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could increase. in addition, the receivables financing agreement for our special purpose subsidiary, iqvia funding, llc ( iqvia funding ) limits borrowing based on the amount of receivables purchased by iqvia funding from certain of our other subsidiaries, but when supported by the value of such purchased receivables, the debt under our receivables financing facility can increase. while the credit agreement also contains restrictions on our and our restricted subsidiaries' ability to make loans and investments, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the investments incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. restrictive covenants in our other indebtedness may limit our flexibility in our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to pursue our business strategies. the terms contained in certain of our indebtedness, including credit facilities and any future indebtedness of ours, may include a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on our and our restricted subsidiaries' ability to take actions that we believe may be in our interest. these agreements, among other things, limit our ability to: incur additional debt; provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons; issue redeemable stock and preferred stock; pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; make loans, investments and capital expenditures; enter into transactions with affiliates; create or incur liens; make distributions from our subsidiaries; sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries; make acquisitions; and consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person. a breach of the covenants or restrictions under the agreements governing our other indebtedness could result in a default under the applicable indebtedness. such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. in the event our lenders and noteholders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we cannot assure that we and our subsidiaries would have sufficient assets to repay such indebtedness. our financial results, our substantial indebtedness and our credit ratings could adversely affect the availability and terms of future financing. 34 interest rate fluctuations and our ability to deduct interest expense may affect our results of operations and financial condition. because we have variable rate debt, fluctuations in interest rates affect our business. we attempt to minimize interest rate risk and lower our overall borrowing costs through the utilization of derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate caps and swaps. we have entered into interest rate caps and swaps with financial institutions that have reset dates and critical terms that match those of our senior secured term loan credit facility. accordingly, any change in market value associated with the interest rate caps and swaps is offset by the opposite market impact on the related debt. because we do not attempt to hedge all of our variable rate debt, we may incur higher interest costs for the portion of our variable rate debt which is not hedged. in addition, the deduction for our interest expense may be limited, which could have an adverse impact on our taxes and net income. risks relating to ownership of our common stock the parties to the shareholders agreement continue to have significant influence over us, including control over decisions that require the approval of stockholders, which could limit the ability of other stockholders to influence the outcome of matters submitted to stockholders for a vote. as of february 12, 2018, certain parties to a shareholders agreement dated may 3, 2016 (the shareholders agreement ) own approximately 24.9% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. the parties to the shareholders agreement, other than dr. dennis gillings and certain of his affiliates (the dg shareholders ) (who have agreed separately to vote in favor of the merger and the transactions contemplated thereby), have agreed to vote for individuals designated to the company's board of directors as follows: ari bousbib (as our chief executive officer); one individual designated by the tpg shareholders (as defined in the shareholders agreement) (until the time at which the tpg shareholders beneficially own, as a group, less than 5% of our outstanding common stock); another individual designated by the tpg shareholders (until the earlier of (i) the seven year anniversary of completion of the merger and (ii) time at which the tpg shareholders beneficially own, as a group, 5% or more but less than 12% of our outstanding common stock); one individual designated by each of bain capital investors, llc ( bain capital ), the lgp shareholders and the cpp shareholder (each until the earlier of (i) the day after our 2018 annual meeting of stockholders or (ii) the time at which such stockholder group beneficially owns less than 2.5% of our outstanding common stock); four individuals who are non-stockholder, independent directors; and until the company's 2018 annual meeting of stockholders, one individual designated by remaining quintiles nominees (as defined in the shareholders agreement). the shareholders agreement provides that we will use our best efforts to cause dr. gillings to be elected as the lead director through our 2018 annual meeting of stockholders and to be elected as a director so that he may serve as a director until the day after our 2021 annual meeting of stockholders (provided that the dg shareholders, as a group, continue to beneficially own at least 2.5% of our outstanding common stock), including using its best efforts to support his nomination for the slate of director nominees for a three-year term at our 2020 annual meetings of stockholders. in 2017, the lgp shareholders and the tpg shareholders each ceased having the right to appoint one director to the board. following the secondary offering that closed on september 19, 2017, the lgp shareholders holdings of our outstanding common stock fell below 2.5%. following the secondary offering that closed on november 30, 2017, the tpg shareholders holdings of our outstanding common stock fell below 12%. as a result, pursuant to the shareholders agreement, mr. danhakl offered to tender his resignation and the tpg shareholders offered to tender the resignation of one of its two representatives on the board. the tpg shareholders continue to have the right to appoint one remaining director to the board. after review, the nominating and governance committee of the board declined the offers made by mr. danhakl and the tpg shareholders. 35 even though the lgp shareholders and the tpg shareholders each lost the right to appoint one director to the board, the parties to the shareholders agreement potentially still have the ability to influence decisions of our company to enter into any corporate transaction (and the terms thereof), any change in the composition of our board of directors and any transaction that requires stockholder approval regardless of whether others believe that such change or transaction is in the best interests of our company. additionally, the parties to the shareholders agreement are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. one or more of the parties to the shareholders agreement may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our businesses and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. so long as the parties to the shareholders agreement continue to own a significant amount of our equity, if they exercise their stockholder rights collectively, they will be able to significantly influence our decisions. provisions of the corporate governance documents of iqvia could make an acquisition of iqvia difficult and may prevent attempts by its stockholders to replace or remove its management, even if beneficial to its stockholders. in addition to the beneficial ownership of a large percentage of iqvia common stock by the parties to the shareholders agreement, our certificate of incorporation and delaware bylaws and the general corporation law of delaware ( dgcl ) contain provisions that could make it difficult for a third party to acquire iqvia even if doing so might be beneficial to its stockholders, including: the division of the board of directors into three classes and the election of each class for three-year terms; subject to the shareholders agreement, the sole ability of the board of directors to fill a vacancy created by the death or resignation of a director or the expansion of the board of directors; advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations; limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings and to take action by written consent; the approval of holders of at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the outstanding shares of iqvia entitled to vote on any amendment, alteration, change, addition or repeal of the delaware bylaws is required to amend, alter, change, add to or repeal the delaware bylaws; the required approval of holders of at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the outstanding shares of iqvia to remove directors, which removal may only be for cause, subject to different requirements in the case of directors elected by a voting group of stockholders and the terms of the shareholders agreement; and the ability of the board of directors to issue new series of, and designate the terms of, preferred stock, without stockholder approval, which could be used to, among other things, institute a rights plan that would have the effect of significantly diluting the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, likely preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by the board of directors. in addition, iqvia is subject to section 203 of the dgcl regulating corporate takeovers, although our board of directors adopted a resolution approving the merger pursuant to which shares of common stock were acquired, by among others, the tpg shareholders. section 203, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits a delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that such stockholder became an interested stockholder unless: prior to such date, the board of directors of the corporation approved either the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder; upon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of the voting stock of the corporation outstanding at the time the transaction commenced, excluding those shares owned by persons who are directors and also officers, and employee stock plans in which employee participants do not have the right to determine confidentially whether shares held subject to the plan will be tendered in a tender or exchange offer; or on or subsequent to such date, the business combination is approved by the board of directors and authorized at an annual or special meeting of stockholders, and not by written consent, by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock that is not owned by the interested stockholder. 36 in general, section 203 defines business combination to include mergers or consolidations between a delaware corporation and an interested stockholder, transactions with an interested stockholder involving the assets or stock of the corporation or its majority-owned subsidiaries and transactions which increase an interested stockholder's percentage ownership of stock. in general, section 203 defines an interested stockholder as any entity or person beneficially owning 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of the corporation and any entity or person affiliated with or controlling or controlled by such entity or person. these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by stockholders to replace members of the board of directors. because iqvia's board is responsible for appointing the members of management, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt to replace current members of management. as a result, stockholders of iqvia may lose their ability to sell their stock for a price in excess of the prevailing market price due to these protective measures, and efforts by stockholders to change the direction or management of iqvia may be unsuccessful. our operating results and share price may be volatile, which could cause the value of our stockholders' investments to decline. our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate in the future, and such fluctuations may be significant. in addition, securities markets worldwide have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, significant price and volume fluctuations. this market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could subject the market price of our shares to wide price fluctuations regardless of our operating performance. our operating results and the trading price of our shares may fluctuate in response to various factors, including: market conditions in the broader stock market; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual financial and operating results; introduction of new services by us or our competitors; issuance of new or changed securities analysts' reports or recommendations; sales, or anticipated sales, of large blocks of our stock; additions or departures of key personnel; regulatory or political developments; litigation and governmental investigations; changing economic conditions; and exchange rate fluctuations. these and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause our operating results and the market price for our shares to fluctuate substantially. while we believe that operating results for any particular quarter are not necessarily a meaningful indication of future results, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares and may otherwise negatively affect the market price and liquidity of our shares. in addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. if any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management from our business, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation. there may be sales of a substantial amount of our common stock by our current stockholders, and these sales could cause the price of our common stock to fall. as of february 12, 2018, there were 208,251,468 shares of common stock outstanding. approximately 24.9% of the outstanding shares of our common stock is held by parties to the shareholders agreement. sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales will occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and make it difficult for us to raise funds through securities offerings in the future. for example, as restrictions on resale end, the market price of our common stock could decline if the holders of currently restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. 37 stockholders that are a party to the shareholders agreement may require us to register their shares for resale under the federal securities laws, subject to certain requirements. under the shareholders agreement, we are required to pay the registration expenses associated with the registration of such shares, not including the underwriting discounts, commissions and transfer taxes. registration of those shares would allow those stockholders to immediately resell their shares in the public market. any such sales or the anticipation of such sales may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. in 2017, the parties to the shareholders agreement sold approximately 47.2 million shares of our common stock, of which we repurchased approximately 19.7 million shares. in addition, we may use our cash, cash generated from operations or dispositions of assets or businesses and/or proceeds from any new financing arrangements or issuances of debt or equity securities to repurchase shares, including the repurchase of shares from our stockholders that are a party to the shareholders agreement. since we have no current plans to pay regular cash dividends on our common stock, stockholders may not receive any return on investment unless they sell their common stock for a price greater than that which they paid for it. although we have previously declared dividends to our stockholders prior to our initial public offering in may 2013, we do not currently anticipate paying any regular cash dividends on our common stock. any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors that our board may deem relevant. in addition, our ability to pay dividends is, and may be, limited by covenants of existing and any future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur, including under our existing credit facilities. therefore, any return on investment in our common stock is solely dependent upon the appreciation of the price of our common stock on the open market, which may not occur. our certificate of incorporation contains a provision renouncing any interest and expectancy in certain corporate opportunities identified by certain of our affiliates, even if such corporate opportunities are ones that we might reasonably be deemed to have pursued or had the ability or desire to pursue. our certificate of incorporation provides that our company renounces any interest or expectancy in the business opportunities of the tpg shareholders, the bain capital, cpp investment board private holdings inc. ( cpp shareholder ), and leonard green &amp; partners, l.p. ( lgp shareholders ), and their affiliates (other than our company and our subsidiaries) and all of their respective partners, principals, directors, officers, members, managers, managing directors and/or employees, and each such person will have no obligation to offer us such opportunities. this provision applies to these stockholders (and associated parties) only for so long as a nominee designated by the stockholder under the shareholders agreement continues to serve on the board. stockholders are deemed to have notice of and have consented to this provision of our certificate of incorporation. therefore, a director or officer of our company who also serves as a director, officer, member, manager, or employee of such stockholders may pursue certain business opportunities, including acquisitions, that may be complementary to its business and, as a result, such opportunities may not be available to us. these potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations, or prospects of our company if attractive corporate opportunities are allocated by such stockholders to themselves or their other affiliates instead of to us. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices. in the ordinary course of business, we are exposed to various market risks and we regularly evaluate our exposure to such changes. our overall risk management strategy seeks to balance the magnitude of the exposure and the cost and availability of appropriate financial instruments. the following analyses present the sensitivity of our financial instruments to hypothetical changes that are reasonably possible over a one-year period. foreign currency exchange rates we transact business in more than 100 countries and approximately 55 currencies and are subject to risks associated with fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates. our objective is to reduce earnings and cash flow volatility associated with foreign currency exchange rate movements. accordingly, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the impact of foreign exchange movements on non functional currency assets and liabilities. we also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency cash flows related to service contracts and to hedge non-united states dollar anticipated intercompany royalties. it is our policy to enter into foreign currency transactions only to the extent necessary to meet our objectives as stated above. we do not enter into foreign currency transactions for investment or speculative purposes. the principal currencies hedged are the euro, the british pound, the japanese yen, the swiss franc and the canadian dollar. the contractual value of our foreign exchange derivative instruments, all of which were foreign exchange forward contracts, was approximately $282 million at december 31, 2017. the fair value of these contracts is subject to change as a result of potential changes in foreign exchange rates. we assess our market risk based on changes in foreign exchange rates utilizing a sensitivity analysis. the sensitivity analysis measures the potential loss in fair values based on a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates. the potential loss in fair value for foreign exchange forward contracts based on a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of the united states dollar or, in the case of non-united states dollar related contracts, the currency being purchased, was $12 million at december 31, 2017. however, the change in the fair value of the foreign exchange forward contracts would likely be offset by a change in the value of the future service contract revenue, royalty or balance sheet exposure being hedged caused by the currency exchange rate fluctuation. the estimated fair values of the foreign exchange forward contracts were determined based on quoted market prices. exchange rate fluctuations affect the united states dollar value of foreign currency revenue and expenses and may have a significant effect on our results. excluding the impacts from any outstanding or future hedging transactions, a hypothetical 10% change in average exchange rates used to translate all foreign currencies to the united states dollar would have impacted income before income taxes for 2017 by approximately $112 million. the actual impact of exchange rate movements in the future could differ materially from this hypothetical analysis, based on the mix of foreign currencies and the timing and magnitude of individual exchange rate movements. additionally, commencing in 2016, we designated a portion of our foreign currency denominated debt as a hedge of our net investment in foreign subsidiaries to reduce the volatility in stockholders' equity caused by changes in the euro exchange rate with respect to the united states dollar. as of december 31, 2017, these borrowings (net of original issue discount) were 4,036 million ($4,835 million). a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of the united states dollar would lead to a potential loss in fair value of $484 million. however, this change in fair value would be offset by the change in value of the hedged portion of our net investment in foreign subsidiaries caused by the currency exchange rate fluctuation. interest rates because we have variable rate debt, fluctuations in interest rates affect our business. we attempt to minimize interest rate risk and lower our overall borrowing costs through the utilization of derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate caps and swaps. we have entered into interest rate caps and swaps with financial institutions that have reset dates and critical terms that match the underlying debt. accordingly, any change in market value associated with the interest rate caps and swaps is offset by the opposite market impact on the related debt. as of december 31, 2017, we had approximately $5.5 billion of variable rate indebtedness and interest rate caps and swaps with a notional value of $1.6 billion. because we do not attempt to hedge all of our variable rate debt, we may incur higher interest costs for the portion of our variable rate debt that is not hedged. excluding debt covered by hedges, each quarter-point increase or decrease in the interest rate on our variable rate debt would result in our interest expense changing by approximately $10 million per year. 68 marketable securities at december 31, 2017, we held investments in marketable equity securities. these investments are classified as either trading securities or available-for-sale securities and are recorded at fair value. these securities are subject to price risk. as of december 31, 2017, the fair value of these investments was $46 million based on the quoted market value of the securities. the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical decrease of 10% in quoted market values was approximately $5 million at december 31, 2017. 69risk factors risk factors we operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. you should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below together with the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k, in evaluating our company. the occurrence of any of the following risks may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. risks relating to our business the potential loss or delay of our large contracts or of multiple contracts could adversely affect our results. most of our research &amp; development solutions clients can terminate our contracts upon 30 to 90 days notice. our clients may delay, terminate or reduce the scope of our contracts for a variety of reasons beyond our control, including but not limited to: decisions to forego or terminate a particular clinical trial; lack of available financing, budgetary limits or changing priorities; actions by regulatory authorities; production problems resulting in shortages of the drug being tested; failure of products being tested to satisfy safety requirements or efficacy criteria; unexpected or undesired clinical results for products; insufficient patient enrollment in a clinical trial; insufficient investigator recruitment; shift of business to a competitor or internal resources; product withdrawal following market launch; or shut down of manufacturing facilities. as a result, contract terminations, delays and alterations are a regular part of our research &amp; development solutions business. in the event of termination, our contracts often provide for fees for winding down the project, but these fees may not be sufficient for us to maintain our margins, and termination may result in lower resource utilization rates. in addition, we will not realize the full benefits of our backlog of contractually committed services if our clients cancel, delay or reduce their commitments under our contracts with them, which may occur if, among other things, a client decides to shift its business to a competitor or revoke our status as a preferred provider. thus, the loss or delay of a large contract or the loss or delay of multiple contracts could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. we believe the risk of loss or delay of multiple contracts potentially has greater effect where we are party to broader partnering arrangements with global biopharmaceutical companies. 15 we depend on third parties for data and support services. our suppliers or providers might restrict our use of or refuse to license data or provide services, which could lead to our inability to access certain data or provide certain services and, as a result, materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. each of our technology &amp; analytics solutions information services is derived from data we collect from third parties. these data suppliers are numerous and diverse, reflecting the broad scope of information that we collect and use in our business. although we typically enter into long-term contractual arrangements with many of these suppliers of data, at the time of entry into a new contract or renewal of an existing contract, suppliers may increase restrictions on our use of such data, increase the price they charge us for data or refuse altogether to license the data to us. in addition, during the term of any data supply contract, suppliers may fail to adhere to our data quality control standards or fail to deliver data. further, although no single individual data supplier is material to our business, if a number of suppliers collectively representing a significant amount of data that we use for one or more of our services were to impose additional contractual restrictions on our use of or access to data, fail to adhere to our quality-control standards, repeatedly fail to deliver data or refuse to provide data, now or in the future, our ability to provide those services to our clients could be materially adversely impacted, which may harm our operating results and financial condition. additionally, we depend on third parties for support services to our business. such support services include, but are not limited to, third-party transportation providers, suppliers of drugs for patients participating in clinical trials, suppliers of kits for use in our clinical trial laboratories business, suppliers of reagents for use in our testing equipment and providers of maintenance contracts for our equipment. the failure of any of these third parties to adequately provide the critical support services could have a material adverse effect on our business. if we fail to perform our services in accordance with contractual requirements, regulatory standards and ethical considerations, we could be subject to significant costs or liability and our reputation could be harmed. we contract with biopharmaceutical companies to perform a wide range of services to assist them in bringing new drugs to market. our services include monitoring clinical trials, data and laboratory analysis, electronic data capture, patient recruitment and other related services, and we perform these services in a number of ways, including through physical and technology-enabled efforts. such services are complex and subject to contractual requirements, regulatory standards and ethical considerations. for example, we must adhere to regulatory requirements such as the fda and current gcp and good laboratory practice requirements. if we fail to perform our services in accordance with these requirements, regulatory agencies may take action against us for failure to comply with applicable regulations governing clinical trials or sales and marketing practices. such actions may include sanctions, such as injunctions or failure of such regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of products, delay, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, product seizures or recalls, operational restrictions, civil or criminal penalties or prosecutions, damages or fines. clients may also bring claims against us for breach of our contractual obligations and patients in the clinical trials and patients taking drugs approved on the basis of those clinical trials may bring personal injury claims against us for negligence. any such action could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and reputation. such consequences could arise if, among other things, the following occur: improper performance of our services. the performance of clinical development services is complex and time-consuming. for example, we may make mistakes in conducting a clinical trial that could negatively impact or obviate the usefulness of the clinical trial or cause the results of the clinical trial to be reported improperly. if the clinical trial results are compromised, we could be subject to significant costs or liability, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to perform our services. as examples: non-compliance generally could result in the termination of ongoing clinical trials or sales and marketing projects or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities; compromise of data from a particular clinical trial, such as failure to verify that informed consent was obtained from patients, could require us to repeat the clinical trial under the terms of our contract at no further cost to our client, but at a substantial cost to us; and breach of a contractual term could result in liability for damages or termination of the contract. large clinical trials can cost up to hundreds of millions of dollars, and while we endeavor to contractually limit our exposure to such risks, improper performance of our services could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, damage our reputation and result in the cancellation of current contracts by or failure to obtain future contracts from the affected client or other clients. 16 investigation of clients. from time to time, one or more of our clients are audited or investigated by regulatory authorities or enforcement agencies with respect to regulatory compliance of their clinical trials, programs or the marketing and sale of their drugs. in these situations, we have often provided services to our clients with respect to the clinical trials, programs or activities being audited or investigated, and we are called upon to respond to requests for information by the authorities and agencies. there is a risk that either our clients or regulatory authorities could claim that we performed our services improperly or that we are responsible for clinical trial or program compliance. if our clients or regulatory authorities make such claims against us and prove them, we could be subject to damages, fines or penalties. in addition, negative publicity regarding regulatory compliance of our clients' clinical trials, programs or drugs could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. insufficient client funding to complete a clinical trial. as noted above, clinical trials can cost hundreds of millions of dollars. there is a risk that we may initiate a clinical trial for a client, and then the client becomes unwilling or unable to fund the completion of the clinical trial. in such a situation, notwithstanding the client's ability or willingness to pay for or otherwise facilitate the completion of the clinical trial, we may be ethically bound to complete or wind down the clinical trial at our own expense. security breaches and unauthorized use of our it systems and information, or the it systems or information in the possession of our vendors, could expose us, our clients, our data suppliers or others to risk of loss. we rely upon the security of our computer and communications systems infrastructure to protect us from cyberattacks and unauthorized access. cyberattacks can include malware, computer viruses, hacking or other significant disruption of our computer, communications and related systems. cyber threats are rapidly evolving and are becoming increasingly sophisticated. despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems, as cyber threats evolve and become more difficult to detect and successfully defend against, one or more cyber threats might defeat the measures that we or our vendors take to anticipate, detect, avoid or mitigate such threats. certain techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, introduce malicious software, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems may be designed to remain dormant until a triggering event and we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures since techniques change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and because cyberattacks can originate from a wide variety of sources. although we take steps to manage and avoid these risks and to prevent their recurrence, our preventive and remedial actions may not be successful. such attacks, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in our incurring costs related to, for example, rebuilding internal systems, defending against litigation, responding to regulatory inquiries or actions, paying damages or fines, or taking other remedial steps with respect to third parties. publicity about vulnerabilities and attempted or successful incursions could damage our reputation with clients and data suppliers and reduce demand for our services. we also store proprietary and sensitive information in connection with our business, which could be compromised by a cyberattack. to the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data, an inappropriate disclosure of proprietary or sensitive information, an inability to access data sources, or an inability to process data or provide our offerings to our clients, it could cause significant damage to our reputation, affect our relationships with our data suppliers and clients (including loss of suppliers and clients), lead to claims against us and ultimately harm our business. we may be required to incur significant costs to alleviate, remedy or protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. we may also face inquiry or increased scrutiny from government agencies as a result of any such disruption or breach. while we have insurance coverage for certain instances of a cyber security breach, our coverage may not be sufficient if we suffer a significant attack or multiple attacks. any such breach or disruption could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and our reputation as a provider of mission-critical services. some of our vendors have significant responsibility for the security of certain of our data centers and computer-based platforms. also, our data suppliers have responsibility for security of their own computer and communications environments. these third parties face risks relating to cyber security similar to ours, which could disrupt their businesses and therefore materially impact ours. accordingly, we are subject to any flaw in or breaches to their computer and communications systems or those that they operate for us, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial results. failure to meet productivity objectives under our internal business transformation initiatives could adversely impact our competitiveness and harm our operating results. we are pursuing business transformation initiatives to update technology, increase innovation and obtain operating efficiencies. as part of these initiatives, we seek to improve our productivity, flexibility, quality, functionality and cost savings by investing in the development and implementation of global platforms and integration of our business processes and functions to achieve economies of scale. for example, we are evaluating our site activation processes and procedures, including technology enablement platforms, and implementing changes to accelerate site start-up timelines and provide greater transparency to clients and investigator sites. these various initiatives may not yield their intended gains, or be completed in timely manner, which may impact our competitiveness and our ability to meet our growth objectives and, as a result, materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 17 if we are unsuccessful at investing in growth opportunities, our business could be materially and adversely affected. we continue to invest significantly in growth opportunities, including the development and acquisition of new data, technologies and services to meet our clients' needs. for example, we are expanding our services and technology offerings, such as the development of a cloud-based platform with a growing number of applications to support commercial operations for life sciences companies (e.g., multi-channel marketing, marketing campaign management, customer relationship management, incentive compensation management, targeting and segmentation, performance management and other applications). we also continue to invest significantly in growth opportunities in emerging markets, such as the development, launch and enhancement of services in china, india, russia, turkey, and other countries. we believe healthcare spending in these emerging markets will continue to grow over the next five years, and we consider our presence in these markets to be an important focus of our growth strategy. there is no assurance that our investment plans or growth strategy will be successful or will produce a sufficient or any return on our investments. further, if we are unable to develop new technologies and services, clients do not purchase our new technologies and services, our new technologies and services do not work as intended or there are delays in the availability or adoption of our new technologies and services, then we may not be able to grow our business or growth may occur slower than anticipated. additionally, although we expect continued growth in healthcare spending in emerging markets, such spending may occur more slowly or not at all, and we may not benefit from our investments in these markets. we plan to fund growth opportunities with cash from operations or from future financings. there can be no assurance that those sources will be available in sufficient amounts to fund future growth opportunities when needed. any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. data protection, privacy and similar laws in the united states and around the world restrict access, use and disclosure of personal information, and failure to comply with or adapt to changes in these laws could materially and adversely harm our business. the confidentiality, collection, use and disclosure of personal data, including individually identifiable health information and clinical trial patient-specific information, are subject to governmental regulation generally in the country that the personal data were collected or used. for example, united states federal regulations under the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 ( hipaa ) create specific requirements for the protection of the privacy and security of individual health information. these provisions apply to both covered entities (primarily health care providers and health insurers) and their business associates or service providers. as there are some instances where we are a hipaa business associate of a covered entity, we can be directly liable for mishandling protected health information. under hipaa's enforcement scheme, we can be subject to significant penalties in connection with hipaa violations, along with the potential for significant other expenditures related to these activities. these rules require individuals' written authorization in many situations, in addition to any required informed consent, before protected health information may be used for research. we are both directly and indirectly affected by the privacy provisions surrounding individual authorizations because many investigators with whom we are involved in clinical trials are directly subject to them as a hipaa covered entity and because we obtain identifiable health information from third parties that are subject to such regulations. the laws and regulations related to the protection of personal health information in connection with research activities are under re-evaluation, particularly in the united states, and changes to these regulations could have a material adverse impact on our ability to provide some of our services in their current form or maintain our profitability. in general, patient health information is among the most sensitive (and highly regulated) of personal information and laws and regulations around the united states and the world are designed to ensure that information about an individual's healthcare is properly protected from inappropriate access, use and disclosure. laws restricting access, use and disclosure of patient health information also include the european union's ( eu ) general data protection regulation, canada's personal information protection and electronic documents act and other data protection, privacy, data security and similar national, state/provincial and local laws. in the eu personal data includes any information that relates to an identified or identifiable natural person with health information carrying additional obligations, including obtaining the explicit consent from the individual for collection, use or disclosure of the information. in addition, we are subject to eu rules with respect to cross-border transfers of such data out of the eu (along with similar data transfer requirements in other countries). the united states, the eu and its member states, and other countries where we have operations, such as china, japan, malaysia, philippines, russia, south korea and singapore, continue to issue new privacy and data protection rules and regulations that relate to personal data and health information. 18 we have established frameworks, models, processes and technologies to manage privacy and security for many data types, from a variety of sources, and under myriad privacy and data protection laws worldwide. in addition, we rely on our data suppliers to deliver information to us in a form and in a manner that complies with applicable privacy and data protection laws. these laws are complex and there is no assurance that the safeguards and controls employed by us or our data suppliers will be sufficient to prevent a breach of these laws, or that claims will not be filed against us or our data suppliers despite such safeguards and controls. failure to comply with such laws, certain certification/registration and annual re-certification/registration provisions associated with these data protection and privacy regulations, and similar rules in various jurisdictions, or to resolve any serious privacy complaints, may result in, among other things, regulatory sanctions, criminal prosecution, civil liability, negative publicity, damage to our reputation, or data being blocked from use or liability under contractual provisions. for example, in july 2015, indictments were issued by the seoul central district prosecutors' office in south korea against ims korea and two of its employees, among others, alleging improper handling of sensitive health information in violation of applicable privacy laws. see item 3 legal proceedings for additional information. laws and expectations relating to privacy continue to evolve, and we continue to adapt to changing needs. for example, the definition of personally identifiable information and personal data continues to evolve and broaden and many new laws and regulations are being enacted. in addition, certain long-established programs have been (or are at risk of being) declared invalid (such as the eu-u.s. safe harbor framework that operated for many years but was struck down by european courts in 2015), so that this area remains in a state of flux. changes to these programs may adversely impact our ability to provide services to our clients or develop new products or services. federal, state and foreign governments are contemplating or have proposed or adopted additional legislation governing the collection, possession, use or dissemination of personal data, such as personal health information, and personal financial data as well as security breach notification rules for loss or theft of such data. additional legislation or regulation of this type might, among other things, require us to implement new security measures and processes or bring within the legislation other personal data not currently regulated, each of which may require substantial expenditures or limit our ability to offer some of our services. additionally, changes in these laws (including newly released interpretations of these laws by courts and regulatory bodies) may limit our data access, use and disclosure, and may require increased expenditures by us or may dictate that we not offer certain types of services. any of the foregoing may have a material adverse impact on our ability to provide services to our clients or maintain our profitability. there is ongoing concern from privacy advocates, regulators and others regarding data protection and privacy issues, and the number of jurisdictions with data protection and privacy laws has been increasing. also, there are ongoing public policy discussions regarding whether the standards for de-identified, anonymous or pseudonymized health information are sufficient, and the risk of re-identification sufficiently small, to adequately protect patient privacy. these discussions may lead to further restrictions on the use of such information. there can be no assurance that these initiatives or future initiatives will not adversely affect our ability to access and use data or to develop or market current or future services. data protection, privacy and similar laws protect more than patient information, and although they vary by jurisdiction, these laws can extend to employee information, business contact information, provider information and other information relating to identifiable individuals. failure to comply with these laws may result in, among other things, civil and criminal liability, negative publicity, damage to our reputation and liability under contractual provisions. in addition, compliance with such laws may require increased costs to us or may dictate that we not offer certain types of services. the occurrence of any of the foregoing could impact our ability to provide the same level of service to our clients, require us to modify our offerings or increase our costs, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to develop, use and protect our proprietary methodologies, analytics, systems, technologies and other intellectual property. existing laws of the various countries in which we provide services or solutions offer only limited protection of our intellectual property rights, and the protection in some countries may be very limited. we rely upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, nondisclosure, invention assignment and other contractual arrangements, and patent, copyright and trademark laws, to protect our intellectual property rights. these laws are subject to change at any time and certain agreements may not be fully enforceable, which could further restrict our ability to protect our innovations. our intellectual property rights may not prevent competitors from independently developing services similar to or duplicative of ours. further, the steps we take in this regard might not be adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation of our intellectual property by competitors, former employees or other third parties, and we might not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. 19 our ability to obtain, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights is subject to general litigation or third-party opposition risks, as well as the uncertainty as to the scope of protection, registrability, patentability, validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights in each applicable country. governments may adopt regulations, and government agencies or courts may render decisions, requiring compulsory licensing of intellectual property rights. when we seek to enforce our intellectual property rights we may be subject to claims that the intellectual property rights are invalid or unenforceable. litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights and to protect our confidential and proprietary information. litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property rights. furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. our inability to protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use, as well as any costly litigation or diversion of our management's attention and resources, could delay further sales or the implementation of our solutions, impair the functionality of our solutions, delay introductions of new solutions, result in our substituting inferior or more costly technologies into our solutions, or injure our reputation and harm our operating results and financial condition. the theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information could reduce the differentiation of our services and harm our business; the value of our investment in development or business acquisitions could be reduced; and third parties might make claims against us related to losses of their confidential or proprietary information. in addition, we may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of our proprietary rights. third parties that license our proprietary rights also may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or reputation. the protection of our intellectual property may require the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. moreover, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may not adequately protect our rights or prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our proprietary rights. these incidents and claims could harm our business, reduce revenue, increase expenses and harm our reputation. we may be subject to claims by others that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights. third parties may assert claims that we or our clients infringe their intellectual property rights and these claims, with or without merit, could be expensive to litigate, cause us to incur substantial costs and divert management resources and attention in defending the claim. in some jurisdictions, plaintiffs can also seek injunctive relief that may limit the operation of our business or prevent the marketing and selling of our services that infringe on the plaintiff's intellectual property rights. to resolve these claims, we may enter into licensing agreements with restrictive terms or significant fees, stop selling, be required to implement costly redesigns to the affected services, or pay damages to satisfy contractual obligations to others. if we do not resolve these claims in advance of a trial, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in court. these outcomes may have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. in addition, certain contracts with our suppliers or clients contain provisions whereby we indemnify, subject to certain limitations, the counterparty for damages suffered as a result of claims related to intellectual property infringement and the use of data. claims made under these provisions could be expensive to litigate and could result in significant payments. we rely on licenses from third parties to certain technology and intellectual property rights for some of our services and the licenses we currently have could terminate or expire. some of our business services rely on technology or intellectual property rights owned and controlled by others. our licenses to this technology or these intellectual property rights could be terminated or could expire. we may be unable to replace these licenses in a timely manner. failure to renew these licenses, or renewals of these licenses on less advantageous terms, could harm our operating results and financial condition. our financial results may be adversely affected if we underprice our contracts, overrun our cost estimates or fail to receive approval for or experience delays in documenting change orders. most of our research &amp; development solutions contracts are either fee for service contracts or fixed-fee contracts. our past financial results have been, and our future financial results may be, adversely impacted if we initially underprice our contracts or otherwise overrun our cost estimates and are unable to successfully negotiate a change order. change orders typically occur when the scope of work we perform needs to be modified from that originally contemplated by our contract with the client. modifications can occur, for example, when there is a change in a key clinical trial assumption or parameter or a significant change in timing. where we are not successful in converting out-of-scope work into change orders under our current contracts, we bear the cost of the additional work. such underpricing, significant cost overruns or delay in documentation of change orders could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 20 the relationship of backlog to revenues varies over time. backlog represents future revenues for our research &amp; development solutions business from work not yet completed or performed under signed binding commitments and signed contracts. once work begins on a project, revenue is recognized over the duration of the project. projects may be terminated or delayed by the client or delayed by regulatory authorities for reasons beyond our control. to the extent projects are delayed, the timing of our revenue could be affected. in the event that a client cancels a contract, we typically would be entitled to receive payment for all services performed up to the cancellation date and subsequent client-authorized services related to terminating the canceled project. typically, however, we have no contractual right to the full amount of the revenue reflected in our backlog in the event of a contract cancellation. the duration of the projects included in our backlog, and the related revenue recognition, range from a few weeks to many years. our backlog may not be indicative of our future revenues from our research &amp; development solutions business, and we may not realize all the anticipated future revenue reflected in our backlog. a number of factors may affect backlog, including: the size, complexity and duration of the projects; the percentage of full services versus functional services; the cancellation or delay of projects; and change in the scope of work during the course of a project. although an increase in backlog will generally result in an increase in revenues to be recognized over time (depending on the level of cancellations), an increase in backlog at a particular point in time does not necessarily correspond directly to an increase in revenues during a particular period. the extent to which contracts in backlog will result in revenue depends on many factors, including but not limited to delivery against projected schedules, the need for scope changes (change orders), contract cancellations and the nature, duration, size, complexity and phase of the contracts, each of which factors can vary significantly from time to time. the rate at which our backlog converts to revenue may vary over time for a variety of reasons. the revenue recognition on larger, more global projects could be slower than on smaller, less global projects for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to an extended period of negotiation between the time the project is awarded to us and the actual execution of the contract, as well as an increased timeframe for obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals. additionally, the increased complexity of clinical trials and the need to enroll precise patient populations could extend the length of clinical trials causing revenue to be recognized over a longer period of time. further, delayed projects will remain in backlog, unless otherwise canceled by the client, and will not generate revenue at the rate originally expected. thus, the relationship of backlog to realized revenues may vary over time. our business depends on the continued effectiveness and availability of our information systems, including the information systems we use to provide our services to our clients, and failures of these systems may materially limit our operations. due to the global nature of our business and our reliance on information systems to provide our services, we intend to increase our use of web-enabled and other integrated information systems in delivering our services. we also provide access to similar information systems to certain of our clients in connection with the services we provide them. as the breadth and complexity of our information systems continue to grow, we will increasingly be exposed to the risks inherent in the development, integration and ongoing operation of evolving information systems, including: disruption, impairment or failure of data centers, telecommunications facilities or other key infrastructure platforms; security breaches of, cyberattacks on and other failures or malfunctions in our critical application systems or their associated hardware; and excessive costs, excessive delays or other deficiencies in systems development and deployment. 21 the materialization of any of these risks may impede the processing of data, the delivery of databases and services, and the day-to-day management of our business and could result in the corruption, loss or unauthorized disclosure of proprietary, confidential or other data. while we have disaster recovery plans in place, they might not adequately protect us in the event of a system failure. while many of our operations have disaster recovery plans in place, we currently do not have excess or standby computer processing or network capacity everywhere in the world to avoid disruption in the receipt, processing and delivery of data in the event of a system failure. despite any precautions we take, damage from fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, break-ins and similar events at our various computer facilities could result in interruptions in the flow of data to our servers and from our servers to our clients. corruption or loss of data may result in the need to repeat a clinical trial at no cost to the client, but at significant cost to us, the termination of a contract or damage to our reputation. in addition, any failure by our computer environment to provide sufficient processing or network capacity to transfer data could result in interruptions in our service. in the event of a delay in the delivery of data, we could be required to transfer our data collection operations to an alternative provider of server hosting services. such a transfer could result in significant delays in our ability to deliver services to our clients and increase our costs. additionally, significant delays in system enhancements or inadequate performance of new or upgraded systems once completed could damage our reputation and harm our business. finally, long-term disruptions in the infrastructure caused by events such as natural disasters, the outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities and acts of terrorism, particularly involving cities in which we have offices, could adversely affect our businesses. although we carry property and business interruption insurance, our coverage might not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. we have continued to undertake significant programs to optimize business processes with respect to our services. our inability to effectively manage the implementation and adapt to new processes designed into new or upgraded systems in a timely and cost-effective manner may result in disruption to our business and negatively affect our operations. we have entered into agreements with certain vendors to provide systems development and integration services that develop or license to us the it platform for programs to optimize our business processes. if such vendors fail to perform as required or if there are substantial delays in developing, implementing and updating the it platform, our client delivery may be impaired, and we may have to make substantial further investments, internally or with third parties, to achieve our objectives. additionally, our progress may be limited by parties with existing or claimed patents who seek to enjoin us from using preferred technology or seek license payments from us. meeting our objectives is dependent on a number of factors which may not take place as we anticipate, including obtaining adequate technology-enabled services, creating it-enabled services that our clients will find desirable and implementing our business model with respect to these services. also, increased it-related expenditures may negatively impact our profitability. we may experience challenges with the acquisition, development, enhancement or deployment of technology necessary for our business. we operate in businesses that require sophisticated computer systems and software for data collection, data processing, cloud-based platforms, analytics, cryptography, statistical projections and forecasting, mobile computing, social media analytics and other applications and technologies, particularly in our technology &amp; analytics solutions and research &amp; development solutions businesses. we seek to address our technology risks by increasing our reliance on the use of innovations by cross-industry technology leaders and adapt these for our biopharmaceutical and healthcare industry clients. some of these technologies supporting the industries we serve are changing rapidly and we must continue to adapt to these changes in a timely and effective manner at an acceptable cost. we also must continue to deliver data to our clients in forms that are easy to use while simultaneously providing clear answers to complex questions. there can be no guarantee that we will be able to develop, acquire or integrate new technologies, that these new technologies will meet our clients' needs or achieve expected investment goals, or that we will be able to do so as quickly or cost-effectively as our competitors. significant technological change could render certain of our services obsolete. moreover, the introduction of new services embodying new technologies could render certain of our existing services obsolete. our continued success will depend on our ability to adapt to changing technologies, manage and process ever-increasing amounts of data and information and improve the performance, features and reliability of our services in response to changing client and industry demands. we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful design, development, testing, introduction or marketing of our services. new services, or enhancements to existing services, may not adequately meet the requirements of current and prospective clients or achieve any degree of significant market acceptance. these types of failures could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 22 consolidation in the industries in which our clients operate may reduce the volume of services purchased by consolidated clients following an acquisition or merger, which could materially harm our operating results and financial condition. mergers or consolidations among our clients have in the past and could in the future reduce the number of our clients and potential clients. when companies consolidate, overlapping services previously purchased separately are usually purchased only once by the combined entity, leading to loss of revenue. other services that were previously purchased by one of the merged or consolidated entities may be deemed unnecessary or cancelled. if our clients merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. there can be no assurance as to the degree to which we may be able to address the revenue impact of such consolidation. any of these developments could materially harm our operating results and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by client or therapeutic concentration. although we did not have any client that represented 10% or more of our revenues in 2018, 2017 and 2016, we derive the majority of our revenues from a number of large clients. if any large client decreases or terminates its relationship with us, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. additionally, conducting multiple clinical trials for different clients in a single therapeutic class involving drugs with the same or similar chemical action has in the past and may in the future adversely affect our business if some or all of the clinical trials are canceled because of new scientific information or regulatory judgments that affect the drugs as a class or if industry consolidation results in the rationalization of drug development pipelines. similarly, marketing and selling drugs for different biopharmaceutical companies with similar chemical actions subjects us to risk if new scientific information or regulatory judgment prejudices the drugs as a class, which may lead to compelled or voluntary prescription limitations or withdrawal of some or all of such drugs from the market. our business is subject to international economic, political and other risks that could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. we have significant operations in countries that may require complex arrangements to deliver services throughout the world for our clients. additionally, we have established operations in locations remote from our most developed business centers. as a result, we are subject to heightened risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including the following: required compliance with a variety of local laws and regulations which may be materially different than those to which we are subject in the united states or which may change unexpectedly; for example, conducting a single clinical trial across multiple countries is complex, and issues in one country, such as a failure to comply with local regulations or restrictions, may affect the progress of the clinical trial in the other countries, for example, by limiting the amount of data necessary for a clinical trial to proceed, resulting in delays or potential cancellation of contracts, which in turn may result in loss of revenue; the united states or foreign countries could enact legislation or impose regulations or other restrictions, including unfavorable labor regulations, tax policies or economic sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business in or expatriate profits from the countries in which we operate, including hiring, retaining and overseeing qualified management personnel for managing operations in multiple countries, differing employment practices and labor issues, and tax-related risks, including the imposition of taxes and the lack of beneficial treaties, that result in a higher effective tax rate for us; foreign countries are expanding or may expand their regulatory framework with respect to patient informed consent, protection and compensation in clinical trials, which could delay or inhibit our ability to conduct clinical trials in such jurisdictions; the regulatory or judicial authorities of foreign countries may not enforce legal rights and recognize business procedures in a manner in which we are accustomed or would reasonably expect; local, economic, political and social conditions, including potential hyperinflationary conditions, political instability, and potential nationalization, repatriation, expropriation, price controls or other restrictive government actions, including changes in political and economic conditions may lead to changes in the business environment in which we operate, as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates; 23 immigration laws are subject to legislative change and varying standards of application and enforcement due to political forces, economic conditions or other events (including proposals in the u.s. to change limitations on temporary and permanent workers), and local immigration laws may require us to meet certain other legal requirements as a condition to obtaining or maintaining entry visas, which may impact our ability to provide services to our clients; potential violations of local laws or anti-bribery laws, such as the united states foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ), and the uk bribery act, may cause difficulty in managing foreign operations, as well as significant consequences to us if those laws are violated; regulatory changes and economic conditions leading up to and following the uk's likely exit from the eu ( brexit ), including uncertainties as to its effect on trade laws, tariffs, instability and volatility in the global financial and currency markets, conflicting or redundant regulatory regimes in europe, such as the european medicines agency ( ema ) possible relocation from uk to a country within the european union, and political stability; clients in foreign jurisdictions may have longer payment cycles, and it may be more difficult to collect receivables in foreign jurisdictions; and natural disasters, pandemics or international conflict, including terrorist acts, could interrupt our services, endanger our personnel or cause project delays or loss of clinical trial materials or results. these risks and uncertainties could negatively impact our ability to, among other things, perform large, global projects for our clients. furthermore, our ability to deal with these issues could be affected by applicable united states laws and the need to protect our assets. any such risks could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. exchange rate fluctuations may affect our results of operations and financial condition. because a large portion of our revenues and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the united states dollar and our financial statements are reported in united states dollars, changes in foreign currency exchange rates could significantly affect our results of operations and financial condition. exchange rate fluctuations between local currencies and the united states dollar create risk in several ways, including: foreign currency translation risk. the revenue and expenses of our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies and translated into united states dollars for financial reporting purposes. accordingly, exchange rate fluctuations will affect the translation of foreign results into united states dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated results. foreign currency transaction risk. we are subject to foreign currency transaction risk for fluctuations in exchange rates during the period of time between the consummation and cash settlement of a transaction. we earn revenue from our service contracts over a period of several months and, in some cases, over several years. accordingly, exchange rate fluctuations during this period may affect our profitability with respect to such contracts. we may limit these risks through exchange rate fluctuation provisions stated in our service contracts, or we may hedge our transaction risk with foreign currency exchange contracts or options. we have not, however, hedged all of our foreign currency transaction risk, and we may experience fluctuations in financial results from our operations outside the united states and foreign currency transaction risk associated with our service contracts. 24 due to the global nature of our business, we may be exposed to liabilities under anti-corruption laws, including the united states foreign corrupt practices act, the united kingdom bribery act and various international anti-corruption laws, and any allegation or determination that we violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are required to comply with the fcpa, the uk bribery act and other international anti-corruption laws, which prohibit companies from engaging in bribery including corruptly or improperly offering, promising, or providing money or anything else of value to non-united states officials and certain other recipients. in addition, the fcpa imposes certain books, records, and accounting control obligations on public companies and other issuers. we operate in parts of the world in which corruption can be common and compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. our global operations face the risk of unauthorized payments or offers being made by employees, consultants, sales agents, and other business partners outside of our control or without our authorization. it is our policy to implement safeguards to prohibit these practices by our employees and business partners with respect to our operations. however, irrespective of these safeguards, or as a result of monitoring compliance with such safeguards, it is possible that we or certain other parties may discover or receive information at some point that certain employees, consultants, sales agents, or other business partners may have engaged in corrupt conduct for which we might be held responsible. violations of the fcpa, the uk bribery act or other international anti-corruption laws may result in restatements of, or irregularities in, our financial statements as well as severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. in some cases, companies that violate the fcpa may be debarred by the united states government and/or lose their united states export privileges. changes in anti-corruption laws or enforcement priorities could also result in increased compliance requirements and related costs which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the united states or other governments may seek to hold us liable for successor liability fcpa violations or violations of other anti-corruption laws committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquired or will acquire. we face risks related to sales to government entities. we derive a portion of our revenue from sales to government entities in the united states. in general, our contracts with united states government entities are terminable at will by the government entity at any time. government demand and payment for our services may be affected by public-sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations, including government shutdowns. government contracts are subject to oversight, including special rules on accounting, expenses, reviews and security. failure to comply with these rules could result in civil and criminal penalties and sanctions, including termination of contracts, fines and suspensions, or debarment from future business with the united states government. as a result, failure to comply with these rules could have an adverse effect on our future business, reputation, operating results and financial condition. if we are unable to successfully develop and market new services or enter new markets, our growth, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. a key element of our growth strategy is the successful development and marketing of new services or entering new markets that complement or expand our existing business. as we develop new services or enter new markets, including services targeted at participants in the broader healthcare industry, we may not have or adequately build the competencies necessary to perform such services satisfactorily, may not receive market acceptance for such services or may face increased competition. if we are unable to succeed in developing new services, entering new markets or attracting a client base for our new services or in new markets, we will be unable to implement this element of our growth strategy, and our future business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. our research &amp; development solutions business could subject us to potential liability that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our research &amp; development solutions business involves the testing of new drugs on patients in clinical trials and, if marketing approval is granted, the availability of these drugs to be prescribed to patients. our involvement in the clinical trials and development process creates a risk of liability for personal injury to or death of patients, particularly those with life-threatening illnesses, resulting from adverse reactions to the drugs administered during testing or after product launch, respectively. for example, we have from time to time been sued and may be sued in the future by individuals alleging personal injury due to their participation in clinical trials and seeking damages from us under a variety of legal theories. although we maintain the types and amounts of insurance we view as customary in the industries and countries in which we operate, if we are required to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with any personal injury claim that is outside the scope of indemnification agreements we have with our clients, if any indemnification agreement is not performed in accordance with its terms or if our liability exceeds the amount of any applicable indemnification limits or available insurance coverage, our financial condition, results of operations and reputation could be materially and adversely affected. we maintain professional liability insurance, including liability for completed operations coverage. in the future, we may not be able to get adequate insurance for these types of risks at reasonable rates. 25 we also contract with physicians to serve as investigators in conducting clinical trials. if the investigators commit errors or make omissions during a clinical trial that result in harm to clinical trial patients or after a clinical trial to a patient using the drug after it has received regulatory approval, claims for personal injury or liability damages may result. additionally, if the investigators engage in fraudulent behavior, clinical trial data may be compromised, which may require us to repeat the clinical trial or subject us to liability. we do not believe we are legally responsible for the medical care rendered by such third-party investigators, and we would vigorously defend any claims brought against us. however, it is possible we could be found liable for claims with respect to the actions of third-party investigators, which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. some of our services involve direct interaction with clinical trial subjects or volunteers and subcontracting into a network of phase i clinical facilities, which could create potential liability that may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and reputation. we subcontract into a network of facilities where phase i clinical trials are conducted, which ordinarily involve testing an investigational drug on a limited number of healthy individuals, typically 20 to 80 persons, to determine such drug's basic safety. failure to operate such a facility in accordance with applicable regulations could result in that facility being shut down, which could disrupt our operations. additionally, we face risks associated with adverse events resulting from the administration of such drugs to healthy volunteers and the professional malpractice of medical care providers. any professional malpractice or negligence by such investigators, nurses or other subcontracted employees could potentially result in liability to us in the event of personal injury to or death of a healthy volunteer in clinical trials, and could also cause us reputational harm. this liability, particularly if it were to exceed the limits of any indemnification agreements and insurance coverage we may have, may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. our contract sales &amp; medical solutions business could result in liability to us if a drug causes harm to a patient. while we are generally indemnified and insured against such risks, we may still suffer financial losses. when we market drugs under contract for a biopharmaceutical company, we could suffer liability for harm allegedly caused by those drugs, either as a result of a lawsuit against the biopharmaceutical company to which we are joined, a lawsuit naming us or any of our subsidiaries or an action launched by a regulatory body. while we are generally indemnified by the biopharmaceutical company for the action of the drugs we market on its behalf, and we carry insurance to cover harm caused by our negligence in performing services, it is possible that we could nonetheless incur financial losses, regulatory penalties or both. in particular, any claim could result in potential liability for us if the claim is outside the scope of the indemnification agreement we have with the biopharmaceutical company, the biopharmaceutical company does not abide by the indemnification agreement as required or the liability exceeds the amount of any applicable indemnification limits or available insurance coverage. such a finding could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. furthermore, negative publicity associated with harm caused by drugs we helped to market could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. our insurance may not cover all of our indemnification obligations and other liabilities associated with our operations. we maintain insurance designed to provide coverage for ordinary risks associated with our operations and our ordinary indemnification obligations. the coverage provided by such insurance may not be adequate for all claims we may make or may be contested by our insurance carriers. if our insurance is not adequate or available to pay liabilities associated with our operations, or if we are unable to purchase adequate insurance at reasonable rates in the future, our profitability may be adversely impacted. if we are unable to attract suitable investigators and patients for our clinical trials, our clinical development business might suffer. the timely recruitment of investigators and patients for clinical trials is essential to our research &amp; development solutions business. investigators are typically located at hospitals, clinics or other sites and supervise the administration of the investigational drug to patients during the course of a clinical trial. patients generally include people from the communities in which the clinical trials are conducted. our clinical development business could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract suitable and willing investigators or patients for clinical trials on a consistent basis. for example, if we are unable to engage investigators to conduct clinical trials as planned or enroll sufficient patients in clinical trials, we might need to expend additional funds to obtain access to resources or else be compelled to delay or modify the clinical trial plans, which may result in additional costs to us. 26 if we lose the services of key personnel or are unable to recruit additional qualified personnel, our business could be adversely affected. our success substantially depends on the collective performance, contributions and expertise of our personnel including senior management and key personnel, qualified professional, scientific and technical operating staff and qualified sales representatives for our contract sales services. there is significant and increasing competition for qualified personnel, particularly those with higher educational degrees, such as a medical degree, a ph.d. or an equivalent degree, or relevant experience in the industry and in the locations in which we operate. in addition, the departure of our key employees, or our inability to continue to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel or replace any departed personnel in a timely fashion, may impact our ability to grow our business and compete effectively in our industry and may negatively affect our ability to meet financial and operational goals. disruptions in the credit and capital markets and unfavorable general economic conditions could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. disruptions in the credit and capital markets could have negative effects on our business that may be difficult to predict or anticipate, including the ability of our clients, vendors, contractors and financing sources to meet their contractual obligations. although we are unable to quantify the impact it has had on us, we are aware of a limited number of instances in our research &amp; development solutions business during the past several years where cancellations, changes in scope and failure to pay timely were attributable, at least in part, to difficulty in our clients' ability to obtain financing. in the future such actions by our clients could, if they involve a significant amount of business with us, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our effective income tax rate may fluctuate for a variety of reasons, including the tax cuts and jobs act enacted in 2017 (the tax act ), which may adversely affect our operations, earnings and earnings per share. our effective income tax rate is influenced by our projected profitability in the various taxing jurisdictions in which we operate. changes in a jurisdiction's income tax rates and the distribution of our profits and losses among such jurisdictions may have a significant impact on our effective income tax rate, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our net income and earnings per share. factors that may affect our effective income tax rate include, but are not limited to: the requirement to exclude from our quarterly worldwide effective income tax calculations losses in jurisdictions where no income tax benefit can be recognized; actual and projected full year pre-tax income; changes in the value of deferred tax assets and liabilities; the repatriation of foreign earnings to the united states; changes in tax laws in various jurisdictions, including the tax act; audits by taxing authorities; and the establishment of valuation allowances against deferred income tax assets if we determined that it is more likely than not that future income tax benefits will not be realized. in addition, our effective income tax rate is influenced by u.s. tax law which has been substantially modified by the tax act. currently regulations have been issued in proposed form, and if the application of these provisions are modified to change the interpretation to us it could have an adverse impact on our effective income tax rate: base erosion and anti-abuse tax ( beat ); global intangible low-taxed income ( gilti ); deduction for net business interest limited to 30% of adjusted taxable income; and performance-based compensation and commissions now subject to $1 million limit. 27 all of these items described above may cause fluctuations in our effective income tax rate through increased u.s. tax liability and/or the loss of tax attributes in any given year that could adversely affect our results of operations and impact our earnings and earnings per share. additional information regarding our income taxes is presented in note 16 to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. changes in accounting standards issued by the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ), including asc 606 revenue from contracts with customers (asc 606), or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements. we are required to prepare our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states of america ( gaap ), which is periodically revised and/or expanded. from time to time, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the fasb and the sec. it is possible that future accounting standards we are required to adopt, such as amended guidance for leases, may require additional changes to the current accounting treatment that we apply to our financial statements and may require us to make significant changes to our reporting systems. such changes could result in a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. for example, effective january 1, 2018, we were required to adopt asc 606. under this new standard, the company is required to recognize revenue for its clinical trial arrangements on a percentage of completion basis. this change in revenue recognition requires significant estimates of project costs that will need to be updated and adjusted on a regular basis. these updates and adjustments are likely to result in variability in our revenue recognition from period to period that may cause unexpected variability in our operating results. see note 1 to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k for details regarding asc 606. our relationships with existing or potential clients who are in competition with each other may adversely impact the degree to which other clients or potential clients use our services, which may adversely affect our results of operations. the biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive, with biopharmaceutical companies each seeking to persuade payers, providers and patients that their drug therapies are better and more cost-effective than competing therapies marketed or being developed by competing firms. in addition to the adverse competitive interests that biopharmaceutical companies have with each other, biopharmaceutical companies also have adverse interests with respect to drug selection and reimbursement with other participants in the healthcare industry, including payers and providers. biopharmaceutical companies also compete to be first to market with new drug therapies. we regularly provide services to biopharmaceutical companies who compete with each other, and we sometimes provide services or funding to such clients regarding competing drugs in development. our existing or future relationships with our biopharmaceutical clients may therefore deter other biopharmaceutical clients from using our services or may result in our clients seeking to place limits on our ability to serve other biopharmaceutical industry participants in connection with drug development activities. in addition, our further expansion into the broader healthcare market may adversely impact our relationships with biopharmaceutical clients, and such clients may elect not to use our services, reduce the scope of services that we provide to them or seek to place restrictions on our ability to serve clients in the broader healthcare market with interests that are adverse to theirs. a loss of clients or reductions in the level of revenues from a client could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, business and prospects. if we are unable to successfully identify, acquire and integrate existing businesses, services and technologies, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. we anticipate that a portion of our future growth may come from acquiring existing businesses, services or technologies. the success of any acquisition will depend upon, among other things, our ability to effectively integrate acquired personnel, operations, services and technologies into our business and to retain the key personnel and clients of our acquired businesses. in addition, we may be unable to identify suitable acquisition opportunities or obtain any necessary financing on commercially acceptable terms. we may also spend time and money investigating and negotiating with potential acquisition targets but not complete the transaction. any future acquisition could involve other risks, including, among others, the assumption of additional liabilities and expenses, difficulties and expenses in connection with integrating the acquired companies and achieving the expected benefits, issuances of potentially dilutive securities or interest-bearing debt, loss of key employees of the acquired companies, transaction costs, diversion of management's attention from other business concerns and, with respect to the acquisition of foreign companies, the inability to overcome differences in foreign business practices, language and customs. our failure to identify potential acquisitions, complete targeted acquisitions and integrate completed acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 28 investments in our clients' businesses or drugs and our related commercial rights strategies could have a negative impact on our financial performance. we may enter into arrangements with our clients or other drug companies in which we take on some of the risk of the potential success or failure of their businesses or drugs, including making strategic investments in our clients or other drug companies, providing financing to clients or other drug companies or acquiring an interest in the revenues from clients' drugs or in entities developing a limited number of drugs. our financial results would be adversely affected if these investments or the underlying drugs result in losses or do not achieve the level of success that we anticipate and/or our return or payment from the drug investment or financing is less than our direct and indirect costs with respect to these arrangements. our results of operations may be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our goodwill and intangible assets. we assess the realizability of our indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill annually and conduct an interim evaluation whenever events or changes in circumstances, such as operating losses or a significant decline in earnings associated with the acquired business or asset, indicate that these assets may be impaired. for example, we recognized $40 million of impairment losses during the year ended december 31, 2017, for goodwill and intangible assets in encore health resources llc ( encore ), which we sold in the third quarter of 2017. our ability to realize the value of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets will depend on the future cash flows of the businesses we have acquired, which in turn depend in part on how well we have integrated these businesses into our own business. if we are not able to realize the value of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. such impairment charges could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. we face risks arising from the restructuring of our operations. from time to time, we have adopted restructuring plans to improve our operating efficiency through various means such as reduction of overcapacity, elimination of non-billable support roles or other realignment of resources. restructuring presents significant potential risks of events occurring that could adversely affect us, including: actual or perceived disruption of service or reduction in service standards to clients; the failure to preserve supplier relationships and distribution, sales and other important relationships and to resolve conflicts that may arise; loss of sales as we reduce or eliminate staffing on non-core services; diversion of management attention from ongoing business activities; and the failure to maintain employee morale and retain key employees. further, any such restructuring would result in charges that, if material, could harm our results of operations and significantly reduce our cash position or increase debt. in addition, we may incur certain unforeseen costs once any restructuring activities are implemented. further, if we determine to effect any restructuring, we can give no assurance that any projected cost reductions resulting from such restructuring activities will be achieved within the expected timeframe, or at all. because of these and other factors, we cannot predict whether we will realize the purpose and anticipated benefits of these measures and, if we do not, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. additionally, there may be delays in implementing the restructuring activities or a failure to achieve the anticipated levels of cost savings and efficiency as a result of the restructuring activities, each of which could materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations. further restructuring or reorganization activities may also be required in the future beyond what is currently planned, which could further enhance the risks associated with these activities. 29 risks relating to our industry the biopharmaceutical services industry is highly competitive. the biopharmaceutical services industry is highly competitive. our business often competes with other biopharmaceutical services companies, internal discovery departments, development departments, sales and marketing departments, information technology departments and other departments within our clients, some of which could be considered large biopharmaceutical services companies in their own right with greater resources than ours. we also compete with universities, teaching hospitals, governments agencies and others. if we do not compete successfully, our business will suffer. the industry is highly fragmented, with numerous smaller specialized companies and a handful of companies with global capabilities similar to certain of our own capabilities. increased competition has led to price and other forms of competition, such as acceptance of less favorable contract terms, that could adversely affect our operating results. there are few barriers to entry for companies considering offering any one or more of the services we offer. because of their size and focus, these companies might compete effectively against us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. our future growth and success will depend on our ability to successfully compete with other companies that provide similar services in the same markets, some of which may have financial, marketing, technical and other advantages. we also expect that competition will continue to increase as a result of consolidation among these various companies. large technology companies with substantial resources, technical expertise and greater brand power could also decide to enter or further expand in the markets where our business operates and compete with us. if one or more of our competitors or potential competitors were to merge or partner with another of our competitors, or if a new entrant emerged with substantial resources, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. we compete on the basis of various factors, including breadth and depth of services, reputation, reliability, quality, innovation, security, price and industry expertise and experience. in addition, our ability to compete successfully may be impacted by the growing availability of health information from social media, government health information systems and other free or low-cost sources. consolidation or integration of wholesalers, retail pharmacies, health networks, payers or other healthcare stakeholders may lead any of them to provide information services directly to clients or indirectly through a designated service provider, resulting in increased competition from firms that may have lower costs to market (e.g., no data supply costs). any of the above may result in lower demand for our services, which could result in a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. outsourcing trends in the biopharmaceutical industry and changes in aggregate spending and research and development budgets could adversely affect our operating results and growth rate. economic factors and industry trends that affect biopharmaceutical companies affect our research &amp; development solutions business. biopharmaceutical companies continue to seek long-term strategic collaborations with global contract research organizations with favorable pricing terms. competition for these collaborations is intense and we may decide to forego an opportunity or we may not be selected, in which case a competitor may enter into the collaboration and our business with the client, if any, may be limited. in addition, if the biopharmaceutical industry reduces its research &amp; development solutions activities or reduces its outsourcing of clinical trials and sales and marketing projects or such outsourcing fails to grow at projected rates, our operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. we may also be negatively impacted by consolidation and other factors in the biopharmaceutical industry, which may slow decision making by our clients or result in the delay or cancellation of clinical trials. our commercial services may be affected by reductions in new drug launches and increases in the number of drugs losing patent protection. all of these events could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. our business may be materially and adversely impacted by factors affecting the biopharmaceutical and healthcare industries. the vast majority of our revenue is generated from sales to the biopharmaceutical and healthcare industries. the clients we serve in these industries are commonly subject to financial pressures, including, but not limited to, increased costs, reduced demand for their products, reductions in pricing and reimbursement for products and services, formulary approval and placement, government approval to market their products and limits on the manner by which they market their products, loss of patent exclusivity (whether due to patent expiration or as a result of a successful legal challenge) and the proliferation of or changes to regulations applicable to these industries. to the extent our clients face such pressures, or they change how they utilize our offerings, the demand for our services, or the prices our clients are willing to pay for those services, may decline. any such decline could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 30 we may be affected by healthcare reform and potential additional reforms. the united states congress continues to consider healthcare reform legislation and impose health industry cost containment measures, which may significantly impact the biopharmaceutical industry. in addition, numerous government bodies are considering or have adopted various healthcare reforms and may undertake, or are in the process of undertaking, efforts to control growing healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and biopharmaceutical companies. we are uncertain as to the effects of these recent reforms on our business and are unable to predict what legislative proposals, if any, will be adopted in the future. if regulatory cost containment efforts limit the profitability of new drugs, our clients may reduce their research and development spending or promotional, marketing and sales expenditures, which could reduce the business they outsource to us. similarly, if regulatory requirements are relaxed or simplified drug approval procedures are adopted, the demand for our services could decrease. foreign and domestic government bodies may also adopt healthcare legislation or regulations that are more burdensome than existing regulations. for example, product safety concerns and recommendations by the drug safety oversight board could change the regulatory environment for drug products, and new or heightened regulatory and licensing requirements may increase our expenses or limit or delay our ability to offer some of our services. additionally, new or heightened regulatory requirements may have a negative impact on the ability of our clients to conduct industry-sponsored clinical trials, which could reduce the need for our services. actions by government regulators or clients to limit a prescription's scope or withdraw an approved drug from the market could adversely affect our business and result in a loss of revenues. government regulators have the authority, after approving a drug, to regulate or limit its scope of prescription or withdraw it from the market completely based on safety concerns. similarly, clients may act to voluntarily limit the scope of prescription of drugs or withdraw them from the market. in the past, we have provided services with respect to drugs that have been limited and/or withdrawn. if we are providing services to clients for drugs that are limited or withdrawn, we may be required to narrow the scope of or terminate our services with respect to such drugs, which would prevent earning the full amount of revenues anticipated under the related service contracts with negative impacts to our financial results. if we do not keep pace with rapid technological changes, our services may become less competitive or obsolete. the biopharmaceutical industry is subject to rapid technological changes. our current competitors or other businesses might develop technologies or services that are more effective or commercially attractive than, or render obsolete, our current or future technologies and services. if our competitors introduce superior technologies or services, including in the provision of clinical services, and if we cannot make enhancements to remain competitive, our competitive position would be harmed. if we are unable to compete successfully, we may lose clients or be unable to attract new clients, which could lead to a decrease in our revenue and financial condition. laws restricting biopharmaceutical sales and marketing practices may adversely impact demand for our services. there have been a significant number of laws, legislative initiatives and regulatory actions over the years that seek to limit biopharmaceutical sales and marketing practices. for example, three states in 2006 and 2007 passed laws restricting the use of prescriber identifiable information for the purpose of promoting branded prescription medicines. although these laws were subsequently declared to be unconstitutional based on a decision of the u.s. supreme court in sorrell v. ims health in 2011, we are unable to predict whether, and in what form, other initiatives may be introduced or actions taken at the state or federal levels to limit biopharmaceutical sales and marketing practices. in addition, while we will continue to seek to adapt our services to comply with the requirements of these laws (to the extent applicable to our services), if enacted, there can be no assurance that our efforts to adapt our offerings will be successful and provide the same financial contribution to us. there can also be no assurance that future legislative initiatives will not adversely affect our ability to develop or market current or future offerings, or that any future laws will not diminish the demand for our services, all of which could, over time, result in a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. 31 our research &amp; development solutions clients face intense competition from lower cost generic products, which may lower the amount that they spend on our services. our research &amp; development solutions clients face increasing competition from lower cost generic products, which in turn may affect their ability to pursue research and development activities with us. in the united states, eu and japan, political pressure to reduce spending on prescription drugs has led to legislation and other measures which encourages the use of generic products. in addition, proposals emerge from time to time in the united states and other countries for legislation to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs. loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic substitutes, reducing our clients' sales of that product and their overall profitability. availability of generic substitutes for our clients' drugs may adversely affect their results of operations and cash flow, which in turn may mean that they would not have surplus capital to invest in research and development and drug commercialization, including in our services. if competition from generic products impacts our clients' finances such that they decide to curtail our services, our revenues may decline and this could have a material adverse effect on our business. risks relating to our indebtedness restrictions imposed in the senior secured credit facilities and other outstanding indebtedness, including the indentures governing iqvia holdings inc. outstanding notes, may limit our ability to operate our business and to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. the terms of the senior secured credit facilities (as defined below) restrict iqvia and its restricted subsidiaries from engaging in specified types of transactions. these covenants restrict the ability of iqvia and its restricted subsidiaries, among other things, to: incur liens; make investments and loans; incur indebtedness or guarantees; issue preferred stock of a restricted subsidiary; issue disqualified equity; engage in mergers, acquisitions and asset sales; declare dividends, make payments or redeem or repurchase equity interests; alter the business iqvia and its restricted subsidiaries conduct; make restricted payments; enter into agreements limiting restricted subsidiary distributions; prepay, redeem or purchase certain indebtedness; and engage in certain transactions with affiliates. in addition, the revolving credit facility and the term a and b loans under our credit agreement (as defined below) require iqvia to comply with a quarterly maximum senior secured net leverage ratio test and minimum interest coverage ratio test. iqvia's ability to comply with these financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and iqvia may not be able to satisfy them. additionally, the restrictions contained in the indentures governing the outstanding notes could also limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet capital needs or make acquisitions or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans. 32 a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the senior secured credit facilities or the indentures governing the outstanding notes, which could trigger acceleration of our indebtedness and may result in the acceleration of or default under any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial results. in the event of any default under the senior secured credit facilities, the applicable lenders could elect to terminate borrowing commitments and declare all borrowings and loans outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and any fees and other obligations, to be due and payable. in addition, or in the alternative, the applicable lenders could exercise their rights under the security documents entered into in connection with the senior secured credit facilities. iqvia and the other subsidiary guarantors have pledged substantially all of their tangible and intangible assets (subject to customary exceptions) as collateral under the senior secured credit facilities, including the stock and the assets of certain of our current and future wholly owned united states subsidiaries and a portion of the stock of certain of our non-united states subsidiaries. if we were unable to repay or otherwise refinance these borrowings and loans when due, the applicable lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness, which could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation. in the event the applicable lenders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. any acceleration of amounts due under the credit agreement governing the senior secured credit facilities or the exercise by the applicable lenders of their rights under the security documents would likely have a material adverse effect on us. despite our level of indebtedness, we are able to incur more debt and undertake additional obligations. incurring such debt or undertaking such additional obligations could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition. although our credit agreement, which governs the senior secured credit facilities of our wholly owned subsidiary through which we conduct our operations, iqvia inc., contains restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could increase. in addition, the receivables financing facility for our special purpose subsidiary, iqvia funding, llc ( iqvia funding ) limits borrowing based on the amount of receivables purchased by iqvia funding from certain of our other subsidiaries, but when supported by the value of such purchased receivables, the debt under our receivables financing facility can increase. while the credit agreement also contains restrictions on our and our restricted subsidiaries' ability to make loans and investments, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the investments incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. restrictive covenants in our other indebtedness may limit our flexibility in our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to pursue our business strategies. the terms contained in certain of our indebtedness, including credit facilities and any future indebtedness of ours, may include a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on our and our restricted subsidiaries' ability to take actions that we believe may be in our interest. these agreements, among other things, limit our ability to: incur additional debt; provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons; issue redeemable stock and preferred stock; pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase debt; make loans, investments and capital expenditures; enter into transactions with affiliates; create or incur liens; make distributions from our subsidiaries; sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries; 33 make acquisitions; and consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person. a breach of the covenants or restrictions under the agreements governing our other indebtedness could result in a default under the applicable indebtedness. such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. in the event our lenders and noteholders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we cannot assure that we and our subsidiaries would have sufficient assets to repay such indebtedness. our financial results, our substantial indebtedness and our credit ratings could adversely affect the availability and terms of future financing. interest rate fluctuations and our ability to deduct interest expense may affect our results of operations and financial condition. because we have variable rate debt, fluctuations in interest rates affect our business. we attempt to minimize interest rate risk and lower our overall borrowing costs through the utilization of derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate caps and swaps. we have entered into interest rate caps and swaps with financial institutions that have reset dates and critical terms that match those of our senior secured term loan credit facility. accordingly, any change in market value associated with the interest rate caps and swaps is offset by the opposite market impact on the related debt. because we do not attempt to hedge all of our variable rate debt, we may incur higher interest costs for the portion of our variable rate debt which is not hedged. in addition, the deduction for our interest expense may be limited, which could have an adverse impact on our taxes and net income. risks relating to ownership of our common stock provisions of the corporate governance documents of iqvia could make an acquisition of iqvia difficult and may prevent attempts by its stockholders to replace or remove its management, even if beneficial to its stockholders. our certificate of incorporation and delaware bylaws and the general corporation law of delaware ( dgcl ) contain provisions that could make it difficult for a third party to acquire iqvia even if doing so might be beneficial to its stockholders, including: the division of the board of directors into three classes and the election of each class for three-year terms; subject to the shareholders agreement dated may 3, 2016 (the shareholders agreement ), the sole ability of the board of directors to fill a vacancy created by the death or resignation of a director or the expansion of the board of directors; advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations; limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings and to take action by written consent; the approval of holders of at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the outstanding shares of iqvia entitled to vote on any amendment, alteration, change, addition or repeal of the delaware bylaws is required to amend, alter, change, add to or repeal the delaware bylaws; the required approval of holders of at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the outstanding shares of iqvia to remove directors, which removal may only be for cause, subject to different requirements in the case of directors elected by a voting group of stockholders and the terms of the shareholders agreement; and the ability of the board of directors to issue new series of, and designate the terms of, preferred stock, without stockholder approval, which could be used to, among other things, institute a rights plan that would have the effect of significantly diluting the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, likely preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by the board of directors. 34 in addition, iqvia is subject to section 203 of the dgcl regulating corporate takeovers, although our board of directors adopted a resolution approving the merger pursuant to which shares of common stock were acquired, by among others, the tpg shareholders. section 203, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits a delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that such stockholder became an interested stockholder unless: prior to such date, the board of directors of the corporation approved either the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder; upon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of the voting stock of the corporation outstanding at the time the transaction commenced, excluding those shares owned by persons who are directors and also officers, and employee stock plans in which employee participants do not have the right to determine confidentially whether shares held subject to the plan will be tendered in a tender or exchange offer; or on or subsequent to such date, the business combination is approved by the board of directors and authorized at an annual or special meeting of stockholders, and not by written consent, by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock that is not owned by the interested stockholder. in general, section 203 defines business combination to include mergers or consolidations between a delaware corporation and an interested stockholder, transactions with an interested stockholder involving the assets or stock of the corporation or its majority-owned subsidiaries and transactions which increase an interested stockholder's percentage ownership of stock. in general, section 203 defines an interested stockholder as any entity or person beneficially owning 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of the corporation and any entity or person affiliated with or controlling or controlled by such entity or person. these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by stockholders to replace members of the board of directors. because iqvia's board is responsible for appointing the members of management, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt to replace current members of management. as a result, stockholders of iqvia may lose their ability to sell their stock for a price in excess of the prevailing market price due to these protective measures, and efforts by stockholders to change the direction or management of iqvia may be unsuccessful. our operating results and share price may be volatile, which could cause the value of our stockholders' investments to decline. our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate in the future, and such fluctuations may be significant. in addition, securities markets worldwide have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, significant price and volume fluctuations. this market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could subject the market price of our shares to wide price fluctuations regardless of our operating performance. our operating results and the trading price of our shares may fluctuate in response to various factors, including: market conditions in the broader stock market; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual financial and operating results; introduction of new services by us or our competitors; issuance of new or changed securities analysts' reports or recommendations; sales, or anticipated sales, of large blocks of our stock; additions or departures of key personnel; regulatory or political developments; litigation and governmental investigations; changing economic conditions; and exchange rate fluctuations. 35 these and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause our operating results and the market price for our shares to fluctuate substantially. while we believe that operating results for any particular quarter are not necessarily a meaningful indication of future results, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares and may otherwise negatively affect the market price and liquidity of our shares. in addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. if any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management from our business, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation. there may be sales of a substantial amount of our common stock by our current stockholders, and these sales could cause the price of our common stock to fall. as of february 12, 2019, there were 197,599,861 shares of common stock outstanding. approximately 10.9% of the outstanding shares of our common stock is held by parties to the shareholders agreement. sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales will occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and make it difficult for us to raise funds through securities offerings in the future. for example, as restrictions on resale end, the market price of our common stock could decline if the holders of currently restricted shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. stockholders that are a party to the shareholders agreement may require us to register their shares for resale under the federal securities laws, subject to certain requirements. under the shareholders agreement, we are required to pay the registration expenses associated with the registration of such shares, not including the underwriting discounts, commissions and transfer taxes. registration of those shares would allow those stockholders to immediately resell their shares in the public market. any such sales or the anticipation of such sales may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. in 2018, the parties to the shareholders agreement sold approximately 21.4 million shares of our common stock, of which we repurchased approximately 6.0 million shares. in addition, we may use our cash, cash generated from operations or dispositions of assets or businesses and/or proceeds from any new financing arrangements or issuances of debt or equity securities to repurchase shares, including the repurchase of shares from our stockholders that are a party to the shareholders agreement. since we have no current plans to pay regular cash dividends on our common stock, stockholders may not receive any return on investment unless they sell their common stock for a price greater than that which they paid for it. although we have previously declared dividends to our stockholders prior to our initial public offering in may 2013, we do not currently anticipate paying any regular cash dividends on our common stock. any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors that our board may deem relevant. in addition, our ability to pay dividends is, and may be, limited by covenants of existing and any future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur, including under our existing credit facilities. therefore, any return on investment in our common stock is solely dependent upon the appreciation of the price of our common stock on the open market, which may not occur. our certificate of incorporation contains a provision renouncing any interest and expectancy in certain corporate opportunities identified by certain of our affiliates, even if such corporate opportunities are ones that we might reasonably be deemed to have pursued or had the ability or desire to pursue. our certificate of incorporation provides that our company renounces any interest or expectancy in the business opportunities of the tpg shareholders, the bain capital, cpp investment board private holdings inc. ( cpp shareholder ), and leonard green &amp; partners, l.p. ( lgp shareholders ), and their affiliates (other than our company and our subsidiaries) and all of their respective partners, principals, directors, officers, members, managers, managing directors and/or employees, and each such person will have no obligation to offer us such opportunities. this provision applies to these stockholders (and associated parties) only for so long as a nominee designated by the stockholder under the shareholders agreement continues to serve on the board. stockholders are deemed to have notice of and have consented to this provision of our certificate of incorporation. therefore, a director or officer of our company who also serves as a director, officer, member, manager, or employee of such stockholders may pursue certain business opportunities, including acquisitions, that may be complementary to its business and, as a result, such opportunities may not be available to us. these potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations, or prospects of our company if attractive corporate opportunities are allocated by such stockholders to themselves or their other affiliates instead of to us. 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices. in the ordinary course of business, we are exposed to various market risks and we regularly evaluate our exposure to such changes. our overall risk management strategy seeks to balance the magnitude of the exposure and the cost and availability of appropriate financial instruments. the following analyses present the sensitivity of our financial instruments to hypothetical changes that are reasonably possible over a one-year period. foreign currency exchange rates we transact business in more than 100 countries and approximately 55 currencies and are subject to risks associated with fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates. our objective is to reduce earnings and cash flow volatility associated with foreign currency exchange rate movements. accordingly, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to minimize the impact of foreign exchange movements on non functional currency assets and liabilities. we also enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency cash flows related to service contracts and to hedge non-united states dollar anticipated intercompany royalties. it is our policy to enter into foreign currency transactions only to the extent necessary to meet our objectives as stated above. we do not enter into foreign currency transactions for investment or speculative purposes. the principal currencies hedged are the euro, the british pound, the japanese yen, the swiss franc and the canadian dollar. 64 the contractual value of our foreign exchange derivative instruments, all of which were foreign exchange forward contracts, was approximately $202 million at december 31, 2018. the fair value of these contracts is subject to change as a result of potential changes in foreign exchange rates. we assess our market risk based on changes in foreign exchange rates utilizing a sensitivity analysis. the sensitivity analysis measures the potential loss in fair values based on a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates. the potential loss in fair value for foreign exchange forward contracts based on a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of the united states dollar or, in the case of non-united states dollar related contracts, the currency being purchased, was $5 million at december 31, 2018. however, the change in the fair value of the foreign exchange forward contracts would likely be offset by a change in the value of the future service contract revenue , royalty or balance sheet exposure being hedged caused by the currency exchange rate fluctuation . the estimated fair values of the foreign exchange forward contracts were determined based on quoted market prices. exchange rate fluctuations affect the united states dollar value of foreign currency revenue and expenses and may have a significant effect on our results. excluding the impacts from any outstanding or future hedging transactions, a hypothetical 10% change in average exchange rates used to translate all foreign currencies to the united states dollar would have impacted income before income taxes for 2018 by approximately $125 million. the actual impact of exchange rate movements in the future could differ materially from this hypothetical analysis, based on the mix of foreign currencies and the timing and magnitude of individual exchange rate movements. additionally, commencing in 2016, we designated a portion of our foreign currency denominated debt as a hedge of our net investment in foreign subsidiaries to reduce the volatility in stockholders' equity caused by changes in the euro exchange rate with respect to the united states dollar. as of december 31, 2018, these borrowings (net of original issue discount) were 4,590 million ($5,253 million). a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of the united states dollar would lead to a potential loss in fair value of $525 million. however, this change in fair value would be offset by the change in value of the hedged portion of our net investment in foreign subsidiaries caused by the currency exchange rate fluctuation. interest rates because we have variable rate debt, fluctuations in interest rates affect our business. we attempt to minimize interest rate risk and lower our overall borrowing costs through the utilization of derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate caps and swaps. we have entered into interest rate caps and swaps with financial institutions that have reset dates and critical terms that match the underlying debt. accordingly, any change in market value associated with the interest rate caps and swaps is offset by the opposite market impact on the related debt. as of december 31, 2018, we had approximately $6.4 billion of variable rate indebtedness and interest rate caps and swaps with a notional value of $2.0 billion. because we do not attempt to hedge all of our variable rate debt, we may incur higher interest costs for the portion of our variable rate debt that is not hedged. excluding debt covered by hedges, each quarter-point increase or decrease in the interest rate on our variable rate debt would result in our interest expense changing by approximately $12 million per year. marketable securities at december 31, 2018, we held investments in marketable equity securities. these investments are classified as either trading securities or available-for-sale securities and are recorded at fair value. these securities are subject to price risk. as of december 31, 2018, the fair value of these investments was $47 million based on the quoted market value of the securities. the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical decrease of 10% in quoted market values was approximately $5 million at december 31, 2018. 65risk factors risk factors we operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. you should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below together with the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k, in evaluating our company. the occurrence of any of the following risks may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects. risks relating to our business the potential loss or delay of our large contracts or of multiple contracts could adversely affect our results. most of our research development solutions clients can terminate our contracts upon 30 to 90 days notice. our clients may delay, terminate or reduce the scope of our contracts for a variety of reasons beyond our control, including but not limited to: decisions to forego or terminate a particular clinical trial lack of available financing, budgetary limits or changing priorities actions by regulatory authorities production problems resulting in shortages of the drug being tested failure of products being tested to satisfy safety requirements or efficacy criteria unexpected or undesired clinical results for products insufficient patient enrollment in a clinical trial insufficient investigator recruitment shift of business to a competitor or internal resources product withdrawal following market launch or shut down of manufacturing facilities. as a result, contract terminations, delays and alterations are a regular part of our research development solutions business. in the event of termination, our contracts often provide for fees for winding down the project, but these fees may not be sufficient for us to realize the full amount of revenues or profits anticipated under the related services contracts, and termination may result in lower resource utilization rates. in addition, we will not realize the full benefits of our backlog of contractually committed services if our clients cancel, delay or reduce their commitments under our contracts with them, which may occur if, among other things, a client decides to shift its business to a competitor or revoke our status as a preferred provider. thus, the loss or delay of a large contract or the loss or delay of multiple contracts could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. we believe the risk of loss or delay of multiple contracts potentially has greater effect where we are party to broader partnering arrangements with global biopharmaceutical companies. 13 we depend on third parties for data and support services. our suppliers or providers might restrict our use of or refuse to license data or provide services, which could lead to our inability to access certain data or provide certain services and, as a result, materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. each of our technology analytics solutions information services is derived from data we collect from third parties. these data suppliers are numerous and diverse, reflecting the broad scope of information that we collect and use in our business. although we typically enter into long-term contractual arrangements with many of these suppliers of data, at the time of entry into a new contract or renewal of an existing contract, suppliers may increase restrictions on our use of such data, increase the price they charge us for data or refuse altogether to license the data to us. in addition, during the term of any data supply contract, suppliers may fail to adhere to our data quality control standards or fail to deliver data. further, although no single individual data supplier is material to our business, if a number of suppliers collectively representing a significant amount of data that we use for one or more of our services were to impose additional contractual restrictions on our use of or access to data, fail to adhere to our quality-control standards, repeatedly fail to deliver data or refuse to provide data, now or in the future, our ability to provide those services to our clients could be materially adversely impacted, which may harm our operating results and financial condition. additionally, we depend on third parties for support services to our business. such support services include, but are not limited to, third-party transportation providers, suppliers of drugs for patients participating in clinical trials, suppliers of kits for use in our clinical trial laboratories business, suppliers of reagents for use in our testing equipment and providers of maintenance contracts for our equipment. the failure of any of these third parties to adequately provide the critical support services could have a material adverse effect on our business. if we fail to perform our services in accordance with contractual requirements, regulatory standards and ethical considerations, we could be subject to significant costs or liability and our reputation could be harmed. we contract with biopharmaceutical companies to perform a wide range of services to assist them in bringing new drugs to market. our services include monitoring clinical trials, data and laboratory analysis, electronic data capture, patient recruitment and other related services, and we perform these services in a number of ways, including through physical and technology-enabled efforts. such services are complex and subject to contractual requirements, regulatory standards and ethical considerations. for example, we must adhere to regulatory requirements such as the fda and current gcp and good laboratory practice requirements. if we fail to perform our services in accordance with these requirements, regulatory agencies may take action against us for failure to comply with applicable regulations governing clinical trials or sales and marketing practices. such actions may include sanctions, such as injunctions or failure of such regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of products, delay, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, product seizures or recalls, operational restrictions, civil or criminal penalties or prosecutions, damages or fines. clients may also bring claims against us for breach of our contractual obligations and patients in the clinical trials and patients taking drugs approved on the basis of those clinical trials may bring personal injury claims against us for negligence. any such action could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and reputation. such consequences could arise if, among other things, the following occur: improper performance of our services. the performance of clinical development services is complex and time-consuming. for example, we may make mistakes in conducting a clinical trial that could negatively impact or obviate the usefulness of the clinical trial or cause the results of the clinical trial to be reported improperly. if the clinical trial results are compromised, we could be subject to significant costs or liability, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to perform our services. as examples: non-compliance generally could result in the termination of ongoing clinical trials or sales and marketing projects or the disqualification of data for submission to regulatory authorities compromise of data from a particular clinical trial, such as failure to verify that informed consent was obtained from patients, could require us to repeat the clinical trial under the terms of our contract at no further cost to our client, but at a substantial cost to us and breach of a contractual term could result in liability for damages or termination of the contract. large clinical trials can cost up to hundreds of millions of dollars, and while we endeavor to contractually limit our exposure to such risks, improper performance of our services could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, damage our reputation and result in the cancellation of current contracts by or failure to obtain future contracts from the affected client or other clients. 14 investigation of clients. from time to time, one or more of our clients are audited or investigated by regulatory authorities or enforcement agencies with respect to regulatory compliance of their clinical trials, programs or the marketing and sale of their drugs. in these situations, we have often provided services to our clients with respect to the clinical trials, programs or activities being audited or investigated, and we are called upon to respond to requests for information by the authorities and agencies. there is a risk that either our clients or regulatory authorities could claim that we performed our services improperly or that we are responsible for clinical trial or program compliance. if our clients or regulatory authorities make such claims against us and prove them, we could be subject to damages, fines or penalties. in addition, negative publicity regarding regulatory compliance of our clients' clinical trials, programs or drugs could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. insufficient client funding to complete a clinical trial. as noted above, clinical trials can cost hundreds of millions of dollars. there is a risk that we may initiate a clinical trial for a client, and then the client becomes unwilling or unable to fund the completion of the clinical trial. in such a situation, notwithstanding the client's ability or willingness to pay for or otherwise facilitate the completion of the clinical trial, we may be ethically bound to complete or wind down the clinical trial at our own expense. security breaches and unauthorized use of our it systems and information, or the it systems or information in the possession of our vendors, could expose us, our clients, our data suppliers or others to risk of loss. we rely upon the security of our computer and communications systems infrastructure to protect us from cyberattacks and unauthorized access. cyberattacks can include malware, computer viruses, hacking or other significant disruption of our computer, communications and related systems. cyber threats are rapidly evolving and are becoming increasingly sophisticated. despite our efforts to ensure the integrity of our systems, as cyber threats evolve and become more difficult to detect and successfully defend against, one or more cyber threats might defeat the measures that we or our vendors take to anticipate, detect, avoid or mitigate such threats. certain techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, introduce malicious software, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems may be designed to remain dormant until a triggering event and we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures since techniques change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and because cyberattacks can originate from a wide variety of sources. although we take steps to manage and avoid these risks and to prevent their recurrence, our preventive and remedial actions may not be successful. such attacks, whether successful or unsuccessful, could result in our incurring costs related to, for example, rebuilding internal systems, defending against litigation, responding to regulatory inquiries or actions, paying damages or fines, or taking other remedial steps with respect to third parties. publicity about vulnerabilities and attempted or successful incursions could damage our reputation with clients and data suppliers and reduce demand for our services. we also store proprietary and sensitive information in connection with our business, which could be compromised by a cyberattack. to the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data, an inappropriate disclosure of proprietary or sensitive information, an inability to access data sources, or an inability to process data or provide our offerings to our clients, it could cause significant damage to our reputation, affect our relationships with our data suppliers and clients (including loss of suppliers and clients), lead to claims against us and ultimately harm our business. we may be required to incur significant costs to alleviate, remedy or protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. we may also face inquiry or increased scrutiny from government agencies as a result of any such disruption or breach. while we have insurance coverage for certain instances of a cyber security breach, our coverage may not be sufficient if we suffer a significant attack or multiple attacks. any such breach or disruption could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and our reputation as a provider of mission-critical services. some of our vendors have significant responsibility for the security of certain of our data centers and computer-based platforms. also, our data suppliers have responsibility for security of their own computer and communications environments. these third parties face risks relating to cyber security similar to ours, which could disrupt their businesses and therefore materially impact ours. accordingly, we are subject to any flaw in or breaches to their computer and communications systems or those that they operate for us, which could result in a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial results. failure to meet productivity objectives under our internal business transformation initiatives could adversely impact our competitiveness and harm our operating results. we are pursuing business transformation initiatives to update technology, increase innovation and obtain operating efficiencies. as part of these initiatives, we seek to improve our productivity, flexibility, quality, functionality and cost savings by investing in the development and implementation of global platforms and integration of our business processes and functions to achieve economies of scale. for example, we have assessed our site activation processes and are moving forward with implementing organizational and process changes and technology transformations to accelerate site start-up timelines . we are also evaluating the customer buying experience, implementing technology platforms to streamline the proposal and contracting process and provide greater transparency to clients. these various initiatives may not yield their intended gains, or be completed in timely manner, which 15 may impact our competitiveness and our ability to meet our growth objectives and, as a result, materially and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. if we are unsuccessful at investing in growth opportunities, our business could be materially and adversely affected. we continue to invest significantly in growth opportunities, including the development and acquisition of new data, technologies and services to meet our clients' needs. for example, we are expanding our services and technology offerings, such as the development of a cloud-based platform with a growing number of applications to support commercial operations for life sciences companies (e.g., multi-channel marketing, marketing campaign management, customer relationship management, incentive compensation management, targeting and segmentation, performance management and other applications). we also continue to invest significantly in growth opportunities in emerging markets, such as the development, launch and enhancement of services in china, india, russia, turkey, and other countries. we consider our presence in these markets to be an important component of our growth strategy. there is no assurance that our investment plans or growth strategy will be successful or will produce a sufficient or any return on our investments. further, if we are unable to develop new technologies and services, clients do not purchase our new technologies and services, our new technologies and services do not work as intended or there are delays in the availability or adoption of our new technologies and services, then we may not be able to grow our business or growth may occur slower than anticipated. additionally, although we expect continued growth in healthcare spending in emerging markets, such spending may occur more slowly or not at all, and we may not benefit from our investments in these markets. we plan to fund growth opportunities with cash from operations or from future financings. there can be no assurance that those sources will be available in sufficient amounts to fund future growth opportunities when needed. any of the foregoing could have a material and adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. data protection, privacy and similar laws in the united states and around the world restrict access, use and disclosure of personal information, and failure to comply with or adapt to changes in these laws could materially and adversely harm our business. the confidentiality, collection, use and disclosure of personal data, including individually identifiable health information and clinical trial patient-specific information, are subject to governmental regulation generally in the country that the personal data were collected or used. for example, united states federal regulations under the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996 ( hipaa ) create specific requirements for the protection of the privacy and security of individual health information. these provisions apply to both covered entities (primarily health care providers and health insurers) and their business associates or service providers. as there are some instances where we are a hipaa business associate of a covered entity, we can be directly liable for mishandling protected health information. under hipaa's enforcement scheme, we can be subject to significant penalties in connection with hipaa violations, along with the potential for significant other expenditures related to these activities. these rules require individuals' written authorization in many situations, in addition to any required informed consent, before protected health information may be used for research. we are both directly and indirectly affected by the privacy provisions surrounding individual authorizations because many investigators with whom we are involved in clinical trials are directly subject to them as a hipaa covered entity and because we obtain identifiable health information from third parties that are subject to such regulations. in general, patient health information is among the most sensitive (and highly regulated) of personal information and laws and regulations around the united states and the world are designed to ensure that information about an individual's healthcare is properly protected from inappropriate access, use and disclosure. laws restricting access, use and disclosure of patient health information also include the european union's ( eu ) general data protection regulation, canada's personal information protection and electronic documents act and other data protection, privacy, data security and similar national, state/provincial and local laws. in the eu personal data includes any information that relates to an identified or identifiable natural person with health information carrying additional obligations, including obtaining the explicit consent from the individual for collection, use or disclosure of the information. in addition, we are subject to eu rules with respect to cross-border transfers of such data out of the eu (along with similar data transfer requirements or data localization requirements in other countries). the united states, the eu and its member states, and other countries where we have operations, such as argentina, brazil, canada, chile, china, japan, malaysia, mexico, philippines, russia, singapore, south korea and switzerland, continue to consider or have issued new privacy and data protection rules and regulations that relate to personal data and health information. 16 we have established frameworks, models, processes and technologies to manage privacy and security for many data types, from a variety of sources, and under myriad privacy and data protection laws worldwide. in addition, we rely on our data suppliers to deliver information to us in a form and in a manner that complies with applicable privacy and data protection laws. these laws are complex and there is no assurance that the safeguards and controls employed by us or our data suppliers will be sufficient to prevent a breach of these laws, or that claims will not be filed against us or our data suppliers despite such safeguards and controls. failure to comply with such laws, certain certification/registration and annual re-certification/registration provisions associated with these data protection and privacy regulations, and similar rules in various jurisdictions, or to resolve any serious privacy complaints, may result in, among other things, regulatory sanctions, criminal prosecution, civil liability, negative publicity, damage to our reputation, or data being blocked from use or liability under contractual provisions. for example, in july 2015, indictments were issued by the seoul central district prosecutors' office in south korea against ims korea and two of its employees, among others, alleging improper handling of sensitive health information in violation of applicable privacy laws. see item 3 legal proceedings for additional information. laws and expectations relating to privacy continue to evolve, and we continue to adapt to changing needs. for example, the definition of personally identifiable information and personal data continues to evolve and broaden and many new laws and regulations are being enacted. in addition, certain long-established programs have been (or are at risk of being) declared invalid (such as the eu-u.s. safe harbor framework that operated for many years but was struck down by european courts in 2015), so that this area remains in a state of flux. changes to these programs may adversely impact our ability to provide services to our clients or develop new products or services. federal, state and foreign governments are contemplating or have proposed or adopted additional legislation governing the collection, possession, use or dissemination of personal data, such as personal health information, and personal financial data as well as security breach notification rules for loss or theft of such data. additional legislation or regulation of this type might, among other things, require us to implement new security measures and processes or bring within the legislation other personal data not currently regulated, each of which may require substantial expenditures or limit our ability to offer some of our services. additionally, changes in these laws (including newly released interpretations of these laws by courts and regulatory bodies) may limit our data access, use and disclosure, and may require increased expenditures by us or may dictate that we not offer certain types of services. any of the foregoing may have a material adverse impact on our ability to provide services to our clients or maintain our profitability. there is ongoing concern from privacy advocates, regulators and others regarding data protection and privacy issues, and the number of jurisdictions with data protection and privacy laws has been increasing. also, there are ongoing public policy discussions regarding whether the standards for de-identified, anonymous or pseudonymized health information are sufficient, and the risk of re-identification sufficiently small, to adequately protect patient privacy. these discussions may lead to further restrictions on the use of such information. there can be no assurance that these initiatives or future initiatives will not adversely affect our ability to access and use data or to develop or market current or future services. data protection, privacy and similar laws protect more than patient information, and although they vary by jurisdiction, these laws can extend to employee information, business contact information, provider information and other information relating to identifiable individuals. failure to comply with these laws may result in, among other things, civil and criminal liability, negative publicity, damage to our reputation and liability under contractual provisions. in addition, compliance with such laws may require increased costs to us or may dictate that we not offer certain types of services. the occurrence of any of the foregoing could impact our ability to provide the same level of service to our clients, require us to modify our offerings or increase our costs, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to develop, use and protect our proprietary methodologies, analytics, systems, technologies and other intellectual property. we rely upon a combination of trade secrets, confidentiality policies, nondisclosure, invention assignment and other contractual arrangements, and patent, copyright and trademark laws, to protect our intellectual property rights. these laws are subject to change at any time and certain agreements may not be fully enforceable, which could further restrict our ability to protect our innovations. further, these laws may not provide adequate protection for our intellectual property, particularly in countries in which the legal system provides less protection for intellectual property rights. our intellectual property rights may not prevent competitors from independently developing services similar to or duplicative of ours. further, the steps we take in this regard might not be adequate to prevent or deter infringement or other misappropriation of our intellectual property by competitors, former employees or other third parties, and we might not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate and timely steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. 17 our ability to obtain, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights is subject to general litigation or third-party opposition risks, as well as the uncertainty as to the scope of protection, registrability, patentability, validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights in each applicable country. governments may adopt regulations, and government agencies or courts may render decisions, requiring compulsory licensing of intellectual property rights. when we seek to enforce our intellectual property rights , we may be subject to claims that the intellectual property rights are invalid or unenforceable. litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights and to protect our confidential and proprietary information. litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property rights. furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. our inability to protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use, as well as any costly litigation or diversion of our management's attention and resources, could delay further sales or the implementation of our solutions, impair the functionality of our solutions, delay introductions of new solutions, result in our substituting inferior or more costly technologies into our solutions, or injure our reputation and harm our operating results and financial condition. the theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information could reduce the differentiation of our services and harm our business the value of our investment in development or business acquisitions could be reduced and third parties might make claims against us related to losses of their confidential or proprietary information. in addition, we may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of our proprietary rights. third parties that license our proprietary rights also may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or reputation. the protection of our intellectual property may require the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. moreover, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may not adequately protect our rights or prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our proprietary rights. these incidents and claims could harm our business, reduce revenue, increase expenses and harm our reputation. we may be subject to claims by others that we are infringing on their intellectual property rights. third parties may assert claims that we or our clients infringe their intellectual property rights and these claims, with or without merit, could be expensive to litigate, cause us to incur substantial costs and divert management resources and attention in defending the claim. in some jurisdictions, plaintiffs can also seek injunctive relief that may limit the operation of our business or prevent the marketing and selling of our services that infringe on the plaintiff's intellectual property rights. to resolve these claims, we may enter into licensing agreements with restrictive terms or significant fees, stop selling, be required to implement costly redesigns to the affected services, or pay damages to satisfy contractual obligations to others. if we do not resolve these claims in advance of a trial, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in court. these outcomes may have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. in addition, certain contracts with our suppliers or clients contain provisions whereby we indemnify, subject to certain limitations, the counterparty for damages suffered as a result of claims related to intellectual property infringement and the use of data. claims made under these provisions could be expensive to litigate and could result in significant payments. we rely on licenses from third parties to certain technology and intellectual property rights for some of our services and the licenses we currently have could terminate or expire. some of our business services rely on technology or intellectual property rights owned and controlled by others. our licenses to this technology or these intellectual property rights could be terminated or could expire. we may be unable to replace these licenses in a timely manner. failure to renew these licenses, or renewals of these licenses on less advantageous terms, could harm our operating results and financial condition. our financial results may be adversely affected if we underprice our contracts, overrun our cost estimates or fail to receive approval for or experience delays in documenting change orders. most of our research development solutions contracts are either fee for service contracts or fixed-fee contracts. our past financial results have been, and our future financial results may be, adversely impacted if we initially underprice our contracts or otherwise overrun our cost estimates and are unable to successfully negotiate a change order. change orders typically occur when the scope of work we perform needs to be modified from that originally contemplated by our contract with the client. modifications can occur, for example, when there is a change in a key clinical trial assumption or parameter or a significant change in timing. where we are not successful in converting out-of-scope work into change orders under our current contracts, we bear the cost of the additional work. such underpricing, significant cost overruns or delay in documentation of change orders could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 18 the relationship of backlog to revenues varies over time. backlog represents future revenues for our research development solutions business from work not yet completed or performed under signed binding commitments and signed contracts. once work begins on a project, revenue is recognized over the duration of the project. projects may be terminated or delayed by the client or delayed by regulatory authorities for reasons beyond our control. to the extent projects are delayed, the timing of our revenue could be affected. in the event that a client cancels a contract, we typically would be entitled to receive payment for all services performed up to the cancellation date and subsequent client-authorized services related to terminating the canceled project. typically, however, we have no contractual right to the full amount of the revenue reflected in our backlog in the event of a contract cancellation. the duration of the projects included in our backlog, and the related revenue recognition, range from a few weeks to many years. our backlog may not be indicative of our future revenues from our research development solutions business, and we may not realize all the anticipated future revenue reflected in our backlog. a number of factors may affect backlog, including: the size, complexity and duration of the projects the percentage of full services versus functional services the cancellation or delay of projects and change in the scope of work during the course of a project. although an increase in backlog will generally result in an increase in revenues to be recognized over time (depending on the level of cancellations), an increase in backlog at a particular point in time does not necessarily correspond directly to an increase in revenues during a particular period. the extent to which contracts in backlog will result in revenue depends on many factors, including but not limited to delivery against projected schedules, the need for scope changes (change orders), contract cancellations and the nature, duration, size, complexity and phase of the contracts, each of which factors can vary significantly from time to time. the rate at which our backlog converts to revenue may vary over time for a variety of reasons. the revenue recognition on larger, more global projects could be slower than on smaller, less global projects for a variety of reasons, including but not limited to an extended period of negotiation between the time the project is awarded to us and the actual execution of the contract, as well as an increased timeframe for obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals. additionally, the increased complexity of clinical trials and the need to enroll precise patient populations could extend the length of clinical trials causing revenue to be recognized over a longer period of time. further, delayed projects will remain in backlog, unless otherwise canceled by the client, and will not generate revenue at the rate originally expected. thus, the relationship of backlog to realized revenues may vary over time. our business depends on the continued effectiveness and availability of our information systems, including the information systems we use to provide our services to our clients, and failures of these systems may materially limit our operations. due to the global nature of our business and our reliance on information systems to provide our services, we intend to increase our use of web-enabled and other integrated information systems in delivering our services. we also provide access to similar information systems to certain of our clients in connection with the services we provide them. as the breadth and complexity of our information systems continue to grow, we will increasingly be exposed to the risks inherent in the development, integration and ongoing operation of evolving information systems, including: disruption, impairment or failure of data centers, telecommunications facilities or other key infrastructure platforms security breaches of, cyberattacks on and other failures or malfunctions in our critical application systems or their associated hardware and excessive costs, excessive delays or other deficiencies in systems development and deployment. 19 the materialization of any of these risks may impede the processing of data, the delivery of databases and services, and the day-to-day management of our business and could result in the corruption, loss or unauthorized disclosure of proprietary, confidential or other data. while we have disaster recovery plans in place, they might not adequately protect us in the event of a system failure. while many of our operations have disaster recovery plans in place, we currently do not have excess or standby computer processing or network capacity everywhere in the world to avoid disruption in the receipt, processing and delivery of data in the event of a system failure. despite any precautions we take, damage from fire, floods, hurricanes, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, break-ins and similar events at our various computer facilities could result in interruptions in the flow of data to our servers and from our servers to our clients. corruption or loss of data may result in the need to repeat a clinical trial at no cost to the client, but at significant cost to us, the termination of a contract or damage to our reputation. in addition, any failure by our computer environment to provide sufficient processing or network capacity to transfer data could result in interruptions in our service. in the event of a delay in the delivery of data, we could be required to transfer our data collection operations to an alternative provider of server hosting services. such a transfer could result in significant delays in our ability to deliver services to our clients and increase our costs. additionally, significant delays in system enhancements or inadequate performance of new or upgraded systems once completed could damage our reputation and harm our business. finally, long-term disruptions in the infrastructure caused by events such as natural disasters, the outbreak of war, the escalation of hostilities and acts of terrorism, particularly involving cities in which we have offices, could adversely affect our businesses. although we carry property and business interruption insurance, our coverage might not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. we have continued to undertake significant programs to optimize business processes with respect to our services. our inability to effectively manage the implementation and adapt to new processes designed into new or upgraded systems in a timely and cost-effective manner may result in disruption to our business and negatively affect our operations. we have entered into agreements with certain vendors to provide systems development and integration services that develop or license to us the it platform for programs to optimize our business processes. if such vendors fail to perform as required or if there are substantial delays in developing, implementing and updating the it platform, our client delivery may be impaired, and we may have to make substantial further investments, internally or with third parties, to achieve our objectives. additionally, our progress may be limited by parties with existing or claimed patents who seek to enjoin us from using preferred technology or seek license payments from us. meeting our objectives is dependent on a number of factors which may not take place as we anticipate, including obtaining adequate technology-enabled services, creating it-enabled services that our clients will find desirable and implementing our business model with respect to these services. also, increased it-related expenditures may negatively impact our profitability. we may experience challenges with the acquisition, development, enhancement or deployment of technology necessary for our business. we operate in businesses that require sophisticated computer systems and software for data collection, data processing, cloud-based platforms, analytics, cryptography, statistical projections and forecasting, mobile computing, social media analytics and other applications and technologies, particularly in our technology analytics solutions and research development solutions businesses. we seek to address our technology risks by increasing our reliance on the use of innovations by cross-industry technology leaders and adapt these for our biopharmaceutical and healthcare industry clients. some of these technologies supporting the industries we serve are changing rapidly and we must continue to adapt to these changes in a timely and effective manner at an acceptable cost. we also must continue to deliver data to our clients in forms that are easy to use while simultaneously providing clear answers to complex questions. there can be no guarantee that we will be able to develop, acquire or integrate new technologies, that these new technologies will meet our needs or those of our clients' needs or achieve expected investment goals, or that we will be able to do so as quickly or cost-effectively as our competitors. significant technological change could render certain of our services obsolete. moreover, the introduction of new services embodying new technologies could render certain of our existing services obsolete. our continued success will depend on our ability to adapt to changing technologies, manage and process ever-increasing amounts of data and information and improve the performance, features and reliability of our services in response to changing client and industry demands. we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful design, development, testing, introduction or marketing of our services. new services, or enhancements to existing services, may not adequately meet our own requirements or those of current and prospective clients or achieve any degree of significant market acceptance. these types of failures could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and reputation. 20 consolidation in the industries in which our clients operate may reduce the volume of services purchased by consolidated clients following an acquisition or merger, which could materially harm our operating results and financial condition. mergers or consolidations among our clients have in the past and could in the future reduce the number of our clients and potential clients. when companies consolidate, overlapping services previously purchased separately are usually purchased only once by the combined entity, leading to loss of revenue. other services that were previously purchased by one of the merged or consolidated entities may be deemed unnecessary or cancelled. if our clients merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. there can be no assurance as to the degree to which we may be able to address the revenue impact of such consolidation. any of these developments could materially harm our operating results and financial condition. we may be adversely affected by client or therapeutic concentration. although we did not have any client that represented 10% or more of our revenues in 2019, 2018 and 2017, we derive the majority of our revenues from a number of large clients. if any large client decreases or terminates its relationship with us, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. additionally, conducting multiple clinical trials for different clients in a single therapeutic class involving drugs with the same or similar chemical action has in the past and may in the future adversely affect our business if some or all of the clinical trials are canceled because of new scientific information or regulatory judgments that affect the drugs as a class or if industry consolidation results in the rationalization of drug development pipelines. similarly, marketing and selling drugs for different biopharmaceutical companies with similar chemical actions subjects us to risk if new scientific information or regulatory judgment prejudices the drugs as a class, which may lead to compelled or voluntary prescription limitations or withdrawal of some or all of such drugs from the market. our business is subject to international economic, political and other risks that could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. we have significant operations in countries that may require complex arrangements to deliver services throughout the world for our clients. additionally, we have established operations in locations remote from our most developed business centers. as a result, we are subject to heightened risks inherent in conducting business internationally, including the following: required compliance with a variety of local laws and regulations which may be materially different than those to which we are subject in the united states or which may change unexpectedly for example, conducting a single clinical trial across multiple countries is complex, and issues in one country, such as a failure to comply with local regulations or restrictions, may affect the progress of the clinical trial in the other countries, for example, by limiting the amount of data necessary for a clinical trial to proceed, resulting in delays or potential cancellation of contracts, which in turn may result in loss of revenue the united states or foreign countries could enact legislation or impose regulations or other restrictions, including unfavorable labor regulations, tax policies or economic sanctions, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to conduct business in or expatriate profits from the countries in which we operate, including hiring, retaining and overseeing qualified management personnel for managing operations in multiple countries, differing employment practices and labor issues, and tax-related risks, including the imposition of taxes and the lack of beneficial treaties, that result in a higher effective tax rate for us foreign countries are expanding or may expand their regulatory framework with respect to patient informed consent, protection and compensation in clinical trials, which could delay or inhibit our ability to conduct clinical trials in such jurisdictions the regulatory or judicial authorities of foreign countries may not enforce legal rights and recognize business procedures in a manner in which we are accustomed or would reasonably expect local, economic, political and social conditions, including potential hyperinflationary conditions, political instability, and potential nationalization, repatriation, expropriation, price controls or other restrictive government actions, including changes in political and economic conditions may lead to changes in the business environment in which we operate, as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates 21 immigration laws are subject to legislative change and varying standards of application and enforcement due to political forces, economic conditions or other events (including proposals in the u.s. to change limitations on temporary and permanent workers), and local immigration laws may require us to meet certain other legal requirements as a condition to obtaining or maintaining entry visas, which may impact our ability to provide services to our clients potential violations of local laws or anti-bribery laws, such as the united states foreign corrupt practices act ( fcpa ), and the uk bribery act, may cause difficulty in managing foreign operations, as well as significant consequences to us if those laws are violated regulatory changes and economic conditions following the uk's exit from the eu ( brexit ), including uncertainties as to its effect on trade laws, tariffs, instability and volatility in the global financial and currency markets, conflicting or redundant regulatory regimes in europe, such as the european medicines agency ( ema ) possible relocation from uk to a country within the european union, and political stability clients in foreign jurisdictions may have longer payment cycles, and it may be more difficult to collect receivables in foreign jurisdictions and natural disasters, pandemics such as the covid-19 (coronavirus), or international conflict, including terrorist acts, could interrupt our services, endanger our personnel, lower patient visits and increase patient drop-out rates, cause delays in recruitment of new patients, decrease the productivity of our clinical research associates, cause other project delays or loss of clinical trial materials or results. these risks and uncertainties could negatively impact our ability to, among other things, perform large, global projects for our clients. furthermore, our ability to deal with these issues could be affected by applicable united states laws and the need to protect our assets. any such risks could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. exchange rate fluctuations may affect our results of operations and financial condition. because a large portion of our revenues and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the united states dollar and our financial statements are reported in united states dollars, changes in foreign currency exchange rates could significantly affect our results of operations and financial condition. exchange rate fluctuations between local currencies and the united states dollar create risk in several ways, including: foreign currency translation risk. the revenue and expenses of our foreign operations are generally denominated in local currencies and translated into united states dollars for financial reporting purposes. accordingly, exchange rate fluctuations will affect the translation of foreign results into united states dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated results. foreign currency transaction risk. we are subject to foreign currency transaction risk for fluctuations in exchange rates during the period of time between the consummation and cash settlement of a transaction. we earn revenue from our service contracts over a period of several months and, in some cases, over several years. accordingly, exchange rate fluctuations during this period may affect our profitability with respect to such contracts. we may limit these risks through exchange rate fluctuation provisions stated in our service contracts, or we may hedge our transaction risk with foreign currency exchange contracts or options. we have not, however, hedged all of our foreign currency transaction risk, and we may experience fluctuations in financial results from our operations outside the united states and foreign currency transaction risk associated with our service contracts. due to the global nature of our business, we may be exposed to liabilities under anti-corruption laws, including the united states foreign corrupt practices act, the united kingdom bribery act and various international anti-corruption laws, and any allegation or determination that we violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are required to comply with the fcpa, the uk bribery act and other international anti-corruption laws, which prohibit companies from engaging in bribery including corruptly or improperly offering, promising, or providing money or anything else of value to non-united states officials and certain other recipients. in addition, the fcpa imposes certain books, records, and accounting control obligations on public companies and other issuers. we operate in parts of the world in which corruption can be common and 22 compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. our global operations face the risk of unauthorized payments or offers being made by employees, consultants, sales agents, and other business partners outside of our control or without our authorization. it is our policy to implement safeguards to prohibit these practices by our employees and business partners with respect to our operations. however, irrespective of these safeguards, or as a result of monitoring compliance with such safeguards, it is possible that we or certain other parties may discover or receive information at some point that certain employees, consultants, sales agents, or other business partners may have engaged in corrupt conduct for which we might be held responsible. violations of the fcpa, the uk bribery act or other international anti-corruption laws may result in restatements of, or irregularities in, our financial statements as well as severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. in some cases, companies that violate the fcpa may be debarred by the united states government and/or lose their united states export privileges. changes in anti-corruption laws or enforcement priorities could also result in increased compliance requirements and related costs which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the united states or other governments may seek to hold us liable for successor liability fcpa violations or violations of other anti-corruption laws committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquired or will acquire. we face risks related to sales to government entities. we derive a portion of our revenue from sales to government entities in the united states. in general, our contracts with united states government entities are terminable at will by the government entity at any time. government demand and payment for our services may be affected by public-sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations, including government shutdowns. government contracts are subject to oversight, including special rules on accounting, expenses, reviews and security. failure to comply with these rules could result in civil and criminal penalties and sanctions, including termination of contracts, fines and suspensions, or debarment from future business with the united states government. as a result, failure to comply with these rules could have an adverse effect on our future business, reputation, operating results and financial condition. if we are unable to successfully develop and market new services or enter new markets, our growth, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. a key element of our growth strategy is the successful development and marketing of new services or entering new markets that complement or expand our existing business. as we develop new services or enter new markets, including services targeted at participants in the broader healthcare industry, we may not have or adequately build the competencies necessary to perform such services satisfactorily, may not receive market acceptance for such services or may face increased competition. if we are unable to succeed in developing new services, entering new markets or attracting a client base for our new services or in new markets, we will be unable to implement this element of our growth strategy, and our future business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. our research development solutions business could subject us to potential liability that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. our research development solutions business involves the testing of new drugs on patients in clinical trials and, if marketing approval is granted, the availability of these drugs to be prescribed to patients. our involvement in the clinical trials and development process creates a risk of liability for personal injury to or death of patients, particularly those with life-threatening illnesses, resulting from adverse reactions to the drugs administered during testing or after product launch, respectively. for example, we have from time to time been sued and may be sued in the future by individuals alleging personal injury due to their participation in clinical trials and seeking damages from us under a variety of legal theories. although we maintain the types and amounts of insurance we view as customary in the industries and countries in which we operate, if we are required to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with any personal injury claim that is outside the scope of indemnification agreements we have with our clients, if any indemnification agreement is not performed in accordance with its terms or if our liability exceeds the amount of any applicable indemnification limits or available insurance coverage, our financial condition, results of operations and reputation could be materially and adversely affected. we maintain professional liability insurance, including liability for completed operations coverage. in the future, we may not be able to get adequate insurance for these types of risks at reasonable rates. we also contract with physicians to serve as investigators in conducting clinical trials. if the investigators commit errors or make omissions during a clinical trial that result in harm to clinical trial patients or after a clinical trial to a patient using the drug after it has received regulatory approval, claims for personal injury or liability damages may result. additionally, if the investigators engage in fraudulent behavior, clinical trial data may be compromised, which may require us to repeat the clinical trial or subject us to liability. we do not believe we are legally responsible for the medical care rendered by such third-party investigators, and we would vigorously defend any claims brought against us. however, it is possible we could be found liable for claims with respect to the actions of third-party investigators, which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. 23 some of our services involve direct interaction with clinical trial subjects or volunteers and subcontracting in to a network of phase i clinical facilities, which could create potential liability that may adversely affect our results of operations , financial condition and reputation . we subcontract into a network of facilities where phase i clinical trials are conducted, which ordinarily involve testing an investigational drug on a limited number of healthy individuals, typically 20 to 80 persons, to determine such drug's basic safety. failure to operate such a facility in accordance with applicable regulations could result in that facility being shut down, which could disrupt our operations. additionally, we face risks associated with adverse events resulting from the administration of such drugs to healthy volunteers and the professional malpractice of medical care providers. any professional malpractice or negligence by such investigators, nurses or other subcontracted employees could potentially result in liability to us in the event of personal injury to or death of a healthy volunteer in clinical trials, and could also cause us reputational harm. this liability, particularly if it were to exceed the limits of any indemnification agreements and insurance coverage we may have, may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. our contract sales medical solutions business could result in liability to us if a drug causes harm to a patient. while we are generally indemnified and insured against such risks, we may still suffer financial losses. when we market drugs under contract for a biopharmaceutical company, we could suffer liability for harm allegedly caused by those drugs, either as a result of a lawsuit against the biopharmaceutical company to which we are joined, a lawsuit naming us or any of our subsidiaries or an action launched by a regulatory body. while we are generally indemnified by the biopharmaceutical company for the action of the drugs we market on its behalf, and we carry insurance to cover harm caused by our negligence in performing services, it is possible that we could nonetheless incur financial losses, regulatory penalties or both. in particular, any claim could result in potential liability for us if the claim is outside the scope of the indemnification agreement we have with the biopharmaceutical company, the biopharmaceutical company does not abide by the indemnification agreement as required or the liability exceeds the amount of any applicable indemnification limits or available insurance coverage. such a finding could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. furthermore, negative publicity associated with harm caused by drugs we helped to market could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. our insurance may not cover all of our indemnification obligations and other liabilities associated with our operations. we maintain insurance designed to provide coverage for ordinary risks associated with our operations and our ordinary indemnification obligations. the coverage provided by such insurance may not be adequate for all claims we may make or may be contested by our insurance carriers. if our insurance is not adequate or available to pay liabilities associated with our operations, or if we are unable to purchase adequate insurance at reasonable rates in the future, our profitability may be adversely impacted. if we are unable to attract suitable investigators and patients for our clinical trials, our clinical development business might suffer. the timely recruitment of investigators and patients for clinical trials is essential to our research development solutions business. investigators are typically located at hospitals, clinics or other sites and supervise the administration of the investigational drug to patients during the course of a clinical trial. patients generally include people from the communities in which the clinical trials are conducted. our clinical development business could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract suitable and willing investigators or patients for clinical trials on a consistent basis. for example, if we are unable to engage investigators to conduct clinical trials as planned or enroll sufficient patients in clinical trials, we might need to expend additional funds to obtain access to resources or else be compelled to delay or modify the clinical trial plans, which may result in additional costs to us. if we lose the services of key personnel or are unable to recruit additional qualified personnel, our business could be adversely affected. our success substantially depends on the collective performance, contributions and expertise of our personnel including senior management and key personnel, qualified professional, scientific and technical operating staff and qualified sales representatives for our contract sales services. there is significant and increasing competition for qualified personnel, particularly those with higher educational degrees, such as a medical degree, a ph.d. or an equivalent degree, or relevant experience in the industry and in the locations in which we operate. in addition, the departure of our key employees, or our inability to continue to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel or replace any departed personnel in a timely fashion, may impact our ability to grow our business and compete effectively in our industry and may negatively affect our ability to meet financial and operational goals. 24 disruptions in the credit and capital markets and unfavorable general economic conditions could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. disruptions in the credit and capital markets could have negative effects on our business that may be difficult to predict or anticipate, including the ability of our clients, vendors, contractors and financing sources to meet their contractual obligations. although we are unable to quantify the impact it has had on us, we are aware of a limited number of instances in our research development solutions business during the past several years where cancellations, changes in scope and failure to pay timely were attributable, at least in part, to difficulty in our clients' ability to obtain financing. in the future such actions by our clients could, if they involve a significant amount of business with us, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our effective income tax rate may fluctuate for a variety of reasons, including the tax cuts and jobs act enacted in 2017 (the tax act ), which may adversely affect our operations, earnings and earnings per share. our effective income tax rate is influenced by our projected profitability in the various taxing jurisdictions in which we operate. changes in a jurisdiction's income tax rates and the distribution of our profits and losses among such jurisdictions may have a significant impact on our effective income tax rate, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our net income and earnings per share. factors that may affect our effective income tax rate include, but are not limited to: the requirement to exclude from our quarterly worldwide effective income tax calculations losses in jurisdictions where no income tax benefit can be recognized actual and projected full year pre-tax income changes in the value of deferred tax assets and liabilities the repatriation of foreign earnings to the united states changes in tax laws in various jurisdictions, including the tax act audits by taxing authorities and the establishment of valuation allowances against deferred income tax assets if we determined that it is more likely than not that future income tax benefits will not be realized. in addition, our effective income tax rate is influenced by u.s. tax law which has been substantially modified by the tax act. currently, regulations have been issued in proposed form, and if the application of these provisions are modified to change the interpretation to us it could have an adverse impact on our effective income tax rate: global intangible low-taxed income ( gilti ) deduction for net business interest limited to 30% of adjusted taxable income and performance-based compensation and commissions now subject to $1 million limit. all of these items described above may cause fluctuations in our effective income tax rate through increased u.s. tax liability and/or the loss of tax attributes in any given year that could adversely affect our results of operations and impact our earnings and earnings per share. additional information regarding our income taxes is presented in note 16 to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k. changes in accounting standards issued by the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements. we are required to prepare our financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the united states of america ( gaap ), which is periodically revised and/or expanded. from time to time, we are required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by recognized authoritative bodies, including the fasb and the sec. it is possible that future accounting standards we are required to adopt, such as amended guidance for leases, may require additional changes to the current accounting treatment that we apply to our financial statements and may require us to make significant changes to our reporting systems. such changes could result in a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. 25 our relationships with existing or potential clients who are in competition with each other may adversely impact the degree to which other clients or potential clients use our services, which may adversely affect our results of operations. the biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive, with biopharmaceutical companies each seeking to persuade payers, providers and patients that their drug therapies are better and more cost-effective than competing therapies marketed or being developed by competing firms. in addition to the adverse competitive interests that biopharmaceutical companies have with each other, biopharmaceutical companies also have adverse interests with respect to drug selection and reimbursement with other participants in the healthcare industry, including payers and providers. biopharmaceutical companies also compete to be first to market with new drug therapies. we regularly provide services to biopharmaceutical companies who compete with each other, and we sometimes provide services or funding to such clients regarding competing drugs in development. our existing or future relationships with our biopharmaceutical clients may therefore deter other biopharmaceutical clients from using our services or may result in our clients seeking to place limits on our ability to serve other biopharmaceutical industry participants in connection with drug development activities. in addition, our further expansion into the broader healthcare market may adversely impact our relationships with biopharmaceutical clients, and such clients may elect not to use our services, reduce the scope of services that we provide to them or seek to place restrictions on our ability to serve clients in the broader healthcare market with interests that are adverse to theirs. a loss of clients or reductions in the level of revenues from a client could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, business and prospects. if we are unable to successfully identify, acquire and integrate existing businesses, services and technologies, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. we anticipate that a portion of our future growth may come from acquiring existing businesses, services or technologies. the success of any acquisition will depend upon, among other things, our ability to effectively integrate acquired personnel, operations, services and technologies into our business and to retain the key personnel and clients of our acquired businesses. in addition, we may be unable to identify suitable acquisition opportunities or obtain any necessary financing on commercially acceptable terms. we may also spend time and money investigating and negotiating with potential acquisition targets but not complete the transaction. any future acquisition could involve other risks, including, among others, the assumption of additional liabilities and expenses, difficulties and expenses in connection with integrating the acquired companies and achieving the expected benefits, issuances of potentially dilutive securities or interest-bearing debt, loss of key employees of the acquired companies, transaction costs, diversion of management's attention from other business concerns and, with respect to the acquisition of foreign companies, the inability to overcome differences in foreign business practices, language and customs. our failure to identify potential acquisitions, complete targeted acquisitions and integrate completed acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. investments in our clients' businesses or drugs and our related commercial rights strategies could have a negative impact on our financial performance. we may enter into arrangements with our clients or other drug companies in which we take on some of the risk of the potential success or failure of their businesses or drugs, including making strategic investments in our clients or other drug companies, providing financing to clients or other drug companies or acquiring an interest in the revenues from clients' drugs or in entities developing a limited number of drugs. our financial results would be adversely affected if these investments or the underlying drugs result in losses or do not achieve the level of success that we anticipate and/or our return or payment from the drug investment or financing is less than our direct and indirect costs with respect to these arrangements. our results of operations may be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our goodwill and intangible assets. we assess the realizability of our indefinite-lived intangible assets and goodwill annually and conduct an interim evaluation whenever events or changes in circumstances, such as operating losses or a significant decline in earnings associated with the acquired business or asset, indicate that these assets may be impaired. for example, we recognized $40 million of impairment losses during the year ended december 31, 2017, for goodwill and intangible assets in encore health resources llc ( encore ), which we sold in the third quarter of 2017. our ability to realize the value of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets will depend on the future cash flows of the businesses we have acquired, which in turn could depend in part on how well we have integrated these businesses into our own business. if we are not able to realize the value of the goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. such impairment charges could materially and adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 26 we face risks arising from the restructuring of our operations. from time to time, we have adopted restructuring plans to improve our operating efficiency through various means such as reduction of overcapacity, elimination of non-billable support roles or other realignment of resources. restructuring presents significant potential risks of events occurring that could adversely affect us, including: actual or perceived disruption of service or reduction in service standards to clients the failure to preserve supplier relationships and distribution, sales and other important relationships and to resolve conflicts that may arise loss of sales as we reduce or eliminate staffing on non-core services diversion of management attention from ongoing business activities and the failure to maintain employee morale and retain key employees. further, any such restructuring would result in charges that, if material, could harm our results of operations and significantly reduce our cash position or increase debt. in addition, we may incur certain unforeseen costs once any restructuring activities are implemented. further, if we determine to effect any restructuring, we can give no assurance that any projected cost reductions resulting from such restructuring activities will be achieved within the expected timeframe, or at all. because of these and other factors, we cannot predict whether we will realize the purpose and anticipated benefits of these measures and, if we do not, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. additionally, there may be delays in implementing the restructuring activities or a failure to achieve the anticipated levels of cost savings and efficiency as a result of the restructuring activities, each of which could materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations. further restructuring or reorganization activities may also be required in the future beyond what is currently planned, which could further enhance the risks associated with these activities. 27 risks relating to our industry the biopharmaceutical services industry is highly competitive. the biopharmaceutical services industry is highly competitive. our business often competes with other biopharmaceutical services companies, internal discovery departments, development departments, sales and marketing departments, information technology departments and other departments within our clients, some of which could be considered large biopharmaceutical services companies in their own right with greater resources than ours. we also compete with universities, teaching hospitals, governments agencies and others. if we do not compete successfully, our business will suffer. the biopharmaceutical services industry is highly fragmented, with numerous smaller specialized companies and a handful of companies with global capabilities similar to certain of our own capabilities. increased competition has led to price and other forms of competition, such as acceptance of less favorable contract terms, that could adversely affect our operating results. there are few barriers to entry for companies considering offering any one or more of the services we offer. because of their size and focus, these companies might compete effectively against us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. our future growth and success will depend on our ability to successfully compete with other companies that provide similar services in the same markets, some of which may have financial, marketing, technical and other advantages. we also expect that competition will continue to increase as a result of consolidation among these various companies. large technology companies with substantial resources, technical expertise and greater brand power could also decide to enter or further expand in the markets where our business operates and compete with us. if one or more of our competitors or potential competitors were to merge or partner with another of our competitors, or if a new entrant emerged with substantial resources, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. we compete on the basis of various factors, including breadth and depth of services, reputation, reliability, quality, geographic coverage, innovation, security, price and industry expertise and experience. in addition, our ability to compete successfully may be impacted by the growing availability of health information from social media, government health information systems and other free or low-cost sources. consolidation or integration of wholesalers, retail pharmacies, health networks, payers or other healthcare stakeholders may lead any of them to provide information services directly to clients or indirectly through a designated service provider, resulting in increased competition from firms that may have lower costs to market (e.g., no data supply costs). any of the above may result in lower demand for our services, which could result in a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. outsourcing trends in the biopharmaceutical industry and changes in aggregate spending and research and development budgets could adversely affect our operating results and growth rate. economic factors and industry trends that affect biopharmaceutical companies affect our research development solutions business. biopharmaceutical companies continue to seek long-term strategic collaborations with global contract research organizations with favorable pricing terms. competition for these collaborations is intense and we may decide to forego an opportunity or we may not be selected, in which case a competitor may enter into the collaboration and our business with the client, if any, may be limited. in addition, if the biopharmaceutical industry reduces its research development solutions activities or reduces its outsourcing of clinical trials and sales and marketing projects or such outsourcing fails to grow at projected rates, our operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. we may also be negatively impacted by consolidation and other factors in the biopharmaceutical industry, which may slow decision making by our clients or result in the delay or cancellation of clinical trials. our commercial services may be affected by reductions in new drug launches and increases in the number of drugs losing patent protection. all of these events could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. our business may be materially and adversely impacted by factors affecting the biopharmaceutical and healthcare industries. the vast majority of our revenue is generated from sales to the biopharmaceutical and healthcare industries. the clients we serve in these industries are commonly subject to financial pressures, including, but not limited to, increased costs, reduced demand for their products, reductions in pricing and reimbursement for products and services, formulary approval and placement, government approval to market their products and limits on the manner by which they market their products, loss of patent exclusivity (whether due to patent expiration or as a result of a successful legal challenge) and the proliferation of or changes to regulations applicable to these industries. to the extent our clients face such pressures, or they change how they utilize our offerings, the demand for our services, or the prices our clients are willing to pay for those services, may decline. any such decline could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 28 we may be affected by healthcare reform and potential additional reforms. the united states congress continues to consider healthcare reform legislation and impose health industry cost containment measures, which may significantly impact the biopharmaceutical industry. in addition, numerous government bodies are considering or have adopted various healthcare reforms and may undertake, or are in the process of undertaking, efforts to control growing healthcare costs through legislation, regulation and voluntary agreements with medical care providers and biopharmaceutical companies. we are uncertain as to the effects of these recent reforms on our business and are unable to predict what legislative proposals, if any, will be adopted in the future. if regulatory cost containment efforts limit the profitability of new drugs, our clients may reduce their research and development spending or promotional, marketing and sales expenditures, which could reduce the business they outsource to us. similarly, if regulatory requirements are relaxed or simplified drug approval procedures are adopted, the demand for our services could decrease. foreign and domestic government bodies may also adopt healthcare legislation or regulations that are more burdensome than existing regulations. for example, product safety concerns and recommendations by the drug safety oversight board could change the regulatory environment for drug products, and new or heightened regulatory and licensing requirements may increase our expenses or limit or delay our ability to offer some of our services. additionally, new or heightened regulatory requirements may have a negative impact on the ability of our clients to conduct industry-sponsored clinical trials, which could reduce the need for our services. actions by government regulators or clients to limit a prescription's scope or withdraw an approved drug from the market could adversely affect our business and result in a loss of revenues. government regulators have the authority, after approving a drug, to regulate or limit its scope of prescription or withdraw it from the market completely based on safety concerns. similarly, clients may act to voluntarily limit the scope of prescription of drugs or withdraw them from the market. in the past, we have provided services with respect to drugs that have been limited and/or withdrawn. if we are providing services to clients for drugs that are limited or withdrawn, we may be required to narrow the scope of or terminate our services with respect to such drugs, which would prevent earning the full amount of revenues anticipated under the related service contracts with negative impacts to our financial results. if we do not keep pace with rapid technological changes, our services may become less competitive or obsolete. the biopharmaceutical industry is subject to rapid technological changes. our current competitors or other businesses might develop technologies or services that are more effective or commercially attractive than, or render obsolete, our current or future technologies and services. if our competitors introduce superior technologies or services, including in the provision of clinical services, and if we cannot make enhancements to remain competitive, our competitive position would be harmed. if we are unable to compete successfully, we may lose clients or be unable to attract new clients, which could lead to a decrease in our revenue and financial condition. laws restricting biopharmaceutical sales and marketing practices may adversely impact demand for our services. there have been a significant number of laws, legislative initiatives and regulatory actions over the years that seek to limit biopharmaceutical sales and marketing practices. for example, three states in 2006 and 2007 passed laws restricting the use of prescriber identifiable information for the purpose of promoting branded prescription medicines. although these laws were subsequently declared to be unconstitutional based on a decision of the u.s. supreme court in sorrell v. ims health in 2011, we are unable to predict whether, and in what form, other initiatives may be introduced or actions taken at the state or federal levels to limit biopharmaceutical sales and marketing practices. in addition, while we will continue to seek to adapt our services to comply with the requirements of these laws (to the extent applicable to our services), if enacted, there can be no assurance that our efforts to adapt our offerings will be successful and provide the same financial contribution to us. there can also be no assurance that future legislative initiatives will not adversely affect our ability to develop or market current or future offerings, or that any future laws will not diminish the demand for our services, all of which could, over time, result in a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. our research development solutions clients face intense competition from lower cost generic products, which may lower the amount that they spend on our services. our research development solutions clients face increasing competition from lower cost generic products, which in turn may affect their ability to pursue research and development activities with us. in the united states, eu and japan, political pressure to reduce spending on prescription drugs has led to legislation and other measures which encourages the use of generic products. in addition, proposals emerge from time to time in the united states and other countries for legislation to further encourage the early and 29 rapid approval of generic drugs. loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic substitutes, reducing our clients' sales of that product and their overall profitability. availability of generic substitutes for our clients' drugs may adversely affect their results of operations and cash flow, which in turn may mean that they would not have surplus capital to invest in research and development and drug commercialization, including in our services. if competition from generic products impacts our clients' finances such that they decide to curtail our services, our revenues may decline and this could have a material adverse effect on our business. risks relating to our indebtedness restrictions imposed in the senior secured credit facilities (as defined below) and other outstanding indebtedness, including the indentures governing outstanding notes issued by our wholly owned subsidiary iqvia inc., may limit our ability to operate our business and to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. the terms of the senior secured credit facilities restrict iqvia and its restricted subsidiaries from engaging in specified types of transactions. these covenants restrict the ability of iqvia and its restricted subsidiaries, among other things, to: incur liens make investments and loans incur indebtedness or guarantees issue preferred stock of a restricted subsidiary issue disqualified equity engage in mergers, acquisitions and asset sales declare dividends, make payments or redeem or repurchase equity interests alter the business iqvia and its restricted subsidiaries conduct make restricted payments enter into agreements limiting restricted subsidiary distributions prepay, redeem or purchase certain indebtedness and engage in certain transactions with affiliates. in addition, the revolving credit facility and the term a and b loans under the credit agreement (as defined below) require iqvia to comply with a quarterly maximum senior secured net leverage ratio test and minimum interest coverage ratio test. iqvia's ability to comply with these financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and iqvia may not be able to satisfy them. additionally, the restrictions contained in the indentures governing the outstanding notes could also limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet capital needs or make acquisitions or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans. 30 a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the senior secured credit facilities or the indentures governing the outstanding notes, which could trigger acceleration of our indebtedness and may result in the acceleration of or default under any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial results. in the event of any default under the senior secured credit facilities, the applicable lenders could elect to terminate borrowing commitments and declare all borrowings and loans outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and any fees and other obligations, to be due and payable. in addition, or in the alternative, the applicable lenders could exercise their rights under the security documents entered into in connection with the senior secured credit facilities. iqvia and the other subsidiary guarantors have pledged substantially all of their tangible and intangible assets (subject to customary exceptions) as collateral under the senior secured credit facilities, including the stock and the assets of certain of our current and future wholly owned united states subsidiaries and a portion of the stock of certain of our non-united states subsidiaries. if we were unable to repay or otherwise refinance these borrowings and loans when due, the applicable lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness, which could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation. in the event the applicable lenders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. any acceleration of amounts due under the credit agreement governing the senior secured credit facilities or the exercise by the applicable lenders of their rights under the security documents would likely have a material adverse effect on us. despite our level of indebtedness, we are able to incur more debt and undertake additional obligations. incurring such debt or undertaking such additional obligations could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition. although the credit agreement, which governs the senior secured credit facilities of our wholly owned subsidiary through which we conduct our operations, iqvia inc., contains restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could increase. in addition, the receivables financing facility for one of our consolidated subsidiaries, a bankruptcy-remote special purpose entity (the spe ) limits borrowing based on the amount of receivables purchased by the spe from certain of our other subsidiaries, but when supported by the value of such purchased receivables, the debt under our receivables financing facility can increase. while the credit agreement also contains restrictions on our and our restricted subsidiaries' ability to make loans and investments, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the investments incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. restrictive covenants in our other indebtedness may limit our flexibility in our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to pursue our business strategies. the terms contained in certain of our indebtedness, including credit facilities and any future indebtedness of ours, may include a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions, including restrictions on our and our restricted subsidiaries' ability to take actions that we believe may be in our interest. these agreements, among other things, limit our ability to: incur additional debt provide guarantees in respect of obligations of other persons issue redeemable stock and preferred stock pay dividends or distributions or redeem or repurchase capital stock prepay, redeem or repurchase debt make loans, investments and capital expenditures enter into transactions with affiliates create or incur liens make distributions from our subsidiaries sell assets and capital stock of our subsidiaries 31 make acquisitions and consolidate or merge with or into, or sell substantially all of our assets to, another person. a breach of the covenants or restrictions under the agreements governing our other indebtedness could result in a default under the applicable indebtedness. such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. in the event our lenders and noteholders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we cannot assure that we and our subsidiaries would have sufficient assets to repay such indebtedness. our financial results, our substantial indebtedness and our credit ratings could adversely affect the availability and terms of future financing. interest rate fluctuations and our ability to deduct interest expense may affect our results of operations and financial condition. because we have variable rate debt, fluctuations in interest rates affect our business. we attempt to minimize interest rate risk and lower our overall borrowing costs through the utilization of derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate caps and swaps. we have entered into interest rate caps and swaps with financial institutions that have reset dates and critical terms that match those of our senior secured term loan credit facility. accordingly, any change in market value associated with the interest rate caps and swaps is offset by the opposite market impact on the related debt. because we do not attempt to hedge all of our variable rate debt, we may incur higher interest costs for the portion of our variable rate debt which is not hedged. in addition, the deduction for our interest expense may be limited, which could have an adverse impact on our taxes and net income. we may be adversely affected by changes in the method of determining the london interbank offered rate ( libor ), or the replacement of libor with an alternative reference rate, for our variable rate loans, derivative contracts and other financial assets and liabilities. the interest rates under our credit facilities and related interest rate swaps may be impacted by the expected discontinuation of libor. libor is used as a reference rate to calculate interest rates under our credit facilities. in 2017, the united kingdom's financial conduct authority, which regulates libor, announced that it intends to phase out libor by the end of 2021. it is unclear if libor will cease to exist at that time or if new methods of calculating libor will be established such that it continues to exist after 2021. the banking industry alongside regulators have taken steps to introduce alternative reference rates to libor particularly in the us, the uk and switzerland. whether or not alternative reference rates attain market traction as a libor replacement tool remains in question. if libor ceases to exist or another indexed rate gains wide market acceptance as the successor to libor, our lenders will select a replacement index that will be applied under our credit facilities and related interest rate swaps, and certain of the interest rates under our credit facilities may change. the new rates may not be as favorable to us as those in effect prior to any libor phase-out. risks relating to ownership of our common stock provisions of the corporate governance documents of iqvia could make an acquisition of iqvia difficult and may prevent attempts by its stockholders to replace or remove its management, even if beneficial to its stockholders. our certificate of incorporation and delaware bylaws and the general corporation law of delaware (the dgcl ) contain provisions that could make it difficult for a third party to acquire iqvia even if doing so might be beneficial to its stockholders, including: the division of the board of directors into three classes and the election of each class for three-year terms the sole ability of the board of directors to fill a vacancy created by the death or resignation of a director or the expansion of the board of directors advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and director nominations limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings and to take action by written consent 32 the approval of holders of at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the outstanding shares of iqvia entitled to vote on any amendment, alteration, change, addition or repeal of the delaware bylaws is required to amend, alter, change, add to or repeal the delaware bylaws the required approval of holders of at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the outstanding shares of iqvia to remove directors, which removal may only be for cause and the ability of the board of directors to issue new series of, and designate the terms of, preferred stock, without stockholder approval, which could be used to, among other things, institute a rights plan that would have the effect of significantly diluting the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, likely preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by the board of directors. in addition, iqvia is subject to section 203 of the dgcl regulating corporate takeovers. section 203, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits a delaware corporation from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date that such stockholder became an interested stockholder unless: prior to such date, the board of directors of the corporation approved either the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder upon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of the voting stock of the corporation outstanding at the time the transaction commenced, excluding those shares owned by persons who are directors and also officers, and employee stock plans in which employee participants do not have the right to determine confidentially whether shares held subject to the plan will be tendered in a tender or exchange offer or on or subsequent to such date, the business combination is approved by the board of directors and authorized at an annual or special meeting of stockholders, and not by written consent, by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock that is not owned by the interested stockholder. in general, section 203 defines business combination to include mergers or consolidations between a delaware corporation and an interested stockholder, transactions with an interested stockholder involving the assets or stock of the corporation or its majority-owned subsidiaries and transactions which increase an interested stockholder's percentage ownership of stock. in general, section 203 defines an interested stockholder as any entity or person beneficially owning 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock of the corporation and any entity or person affiliated with or controlling or controlled by such entity or person. these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by stockholders to replace members of the board of directors. because iqvia's board is responsible for appointing the members of management, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt to replace current members of management. as a result, stockholders of iqvia may lose their ability to sell their stock for a price in excess of the prevailing market price due to these protective measures, and efforts by stockholders to change the direction or management of iqvia may be unsuccessful. our operating results and share price may be volatile, which could cause the value of our stockholders' investments to decline. our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate in the future, and such fluctuations may be significant. in addition, securities markets worldwide have experienced, and are likely to continue to experience, significant price and volume fluctuations. this market volatility, as well as general economic, market or political conditions, could subject the market price of our shares to wide price fluctuations regardless of our operating performance. our operating results and the trading price of our shares may fluctuate in response to various factors, including: market conditions in the broader stock market actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual financial and operating results introduction of new services by us or our competitors issuance of new or changed securities analysts' reports or recommendations 33 sales, or anticipated sales, of large blocks of our stock additions or departures of key personnel regulatory or political developments litigation and governmental investigations changing economic conditions and exchange rate fluctuations. these and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause our operating results and the market price for our shares to fluctuate substantially. while we believe that operating results for any particular quarter are not necessarily a meaningful indication of future results, fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares and may otherwise negatively affect the market price and liquidity of our shares. in addition, in the past, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have sometimes instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issued the stock. if any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management from our business, which could significantly harm our profitability and reputation. since we have no current plans to pay regular cash dividends on our common stock, stockholders may not receive any return on investment unless they sell their common stock for a price greater than that which they paid for it. although we have previously declared dividends to our stockholders prior to our initial public offering in may 2013, we do not currently anticipate paying any regular cash dividends on our common stock. any decision to declare and pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors that our board may deem relevant. in addition, our ability to pay dividends is, and may be, limited by covenants of existing and any future outstanding indebtedness we or our subsidiaries incur, including under our existing credit facilities. therefore, any return on investment in our common stock is solely dependent upon the appreciation of the price of our common stock on the open market, which may not occur. our certificate of incorporation contains a provision renouncing any interest and expectancy in certain corporate opportunities identified by certain of our affiliates, even if such corporate opportunities are ones that we might reasonably be deemed to have pursued or had the ability or desire to pursue. our certificate of incorporation provides that iqvia renounces any interest or expectancy in the business opportunities of the tpg global, llc, the bain capital, llc, cpp investment board private holdings inc., and leonard green partners, l.p., and their affiliates (other than our company and our subsidiaries) and all of their respective partners, principals, directors, officers, members, managers, managing directors and/or employees, and each such person will have no obligation to offer us such opportunities. this provision applies to each of these stockholders (and associated parties) only for so long as a nominee designated by such stockholder under the shareholders agreement continues to serve on our board of directors and no individual serving our board of directors has at any time been designated as a nominee by such stockholder under the shareholders agreement. stockholders are deemed to have notice of and have consented to this provision of our certificate of incorporation. therefore, a director or officer of our company who also serves as a director, officer, member, manager, or employee of such stockholders may pursue certain business opportunities, including acquisitions, that may be complementary to its business and, as a result, such opportunities may not be available to us. these potential conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations, or prospects of our company if attractive corporate opportunities are allocated by such stockholders to themselves or their other affiliates instead of to us. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in market rates and prices. in the ordinary course of business, we are exposed to various market risks and we regularly evaluate our exposure to such changes. our overall risk management strategy seeks to balance the magnitude of the exposure and the cost and availability of appropriate financial instruments. the following analyses present the sensitivity of our financial instruments to hypothetical changes that are reasonably possible over a one-year period. foreign currency exchange rates we transact business in more than 100 countries and approximately 55 currencies and are subject to risks associated with fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates. our objective is to reduce earnings and cash flow volatility associated with foreign currency exchange rate movements. accordingly, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency cash flows related to service contracts and to hedge non-united states dollar anticipated intercompany royalties. it is our policy to enter into foreign currency transactions only to the extent necessary to meet our objectives as stated above. we do not enter into foreign currency transactions for investment or speculative purposes. the principal currencies hedged are the euro, the british pound, the japanese yen, the swiss franc and the canadian dollar. the contractual value of our foreign exchange derivative instruments, all of which were foreign exchange forward contracts, was approximately $148 million at december 31, 2019. the fair value of these contracts is subject to change as a result of potential changes in foreign exchange rates. we assess our market risk based on changes in foreign exchange rates utilizing a sensitivity analysis. the sensitivity analysis measures the potential gain or loss in fair values based on a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates. the potential gain in fair value for foreign exchange forward contracts based on a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of the united states dollar or, in the case of non-united states dollar related contracts, the currency being purchased, was less than $1 million at december 31, 2019. however, the change in the fair value of the foreign exchange forward contracts would likely be offset by a change in the value of the future service contract revenue or royalty being hedged caused by the currency exchange rate fluctuation. the estimated fair values of the foreign exchange forward contracts were determined based on quoted market prices. exchange rate fluctuations affect the united states dollar value of foreign currency revenue and expenses and may have a significant effect on our results. excluding the impacts from any outstanding or future hedging transactions, a hypothetical 10% change in average exchange rates used to translate all foreign currencies to the united states dollar would have impacted income before income taxes for 2019 by approximately $165 million. the actual impact of exchange rate movements in the future could differ materially from this hypothetical analysis, based on the mix of foreign currencies and the timing and magnitude of individual exchange rate movements. additionally, commencing in 2016, we designated a portion of our foreign currency denominated debt as a hedge of our net investment in foreign subsidiaries to reduce the volatility in stockholders' equity caused by changes in the euro exchange rate with respect to the united states dollar. as of december 31, 2019, these borrowings (net of original issue discount) were 5,273 million ($5,915 million). a hypothetical 10% decrease in the value of the united states dollar would lead to a potential loss in fair value of $592 million. however, this change in fair value would be offset by the change in value of the hedged portion of our net investment in foreign subsidiaries caused by the currency exchange rate fluctuation. interest rates because we have variable rate debt, fluctuations in interest rates affect our business. we attempt to minimize interest rate risk and lower our overall borrowing costs through the utilization of derivative financial instruments, primarily interest rate swaps. we have entered into interest rate swaps with financial institutions that have reset dates and critical terms that match the underlying debt. accordingly, any change in market value associated with the interest rate swaps is offset by the opposite market impact on the related debt. as of december 31, 2019, we had approximately $5.9 billion of variable rate indebtedness and interest rate swaps with a notional value of $1.2 billion. because we do not attempt to hedge all of our variable rate debt, we may incur higher interest costs for the portion of our variable rate debt that is not hedged. excluding debt covered by hedges, each quarter-point increase or decrease in the interest rate on our variable rate debt would result in our interest expense changing by approximately $11 million per year. marketable securities at december 31, 2019, we held investments in marketable equity securities. these investments are classified as either trading securities or available-for-sale securities and are recorded at fair value. these securities are subject to price risk. as of december 31, 2019, the fair value of these investments was $62 million based on the quoted market value of the securities. the potential loss in fair value resulting from a hypothetical decrease of 10% in quoted market values was approximately $6 million at december 31, 2019. 54