risk factors 8 risk factors. our past performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance because actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to the risks and uncertainties discussed below. in addition, historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. global economic conditions and the impact on consumer spending patterns could adversely impact our results of operations. the company's performance is subject to global economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending worldwide. some of the factors influencing consumer spending include high levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, reductions in net worth based on market declines and uncertainty, home foreclosures and reductions in home values, fluctuating interest rates and credit availability, government austerity measures, fluctuating fuel and other energy costs, fluctuating commodity prices, and general uncertainty regarding the overall future economic environment. consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, generally decline during periods when disposable income is adversely affected or there is economic uncertainty. adverse economic changes in any of the regions in which we sell our products, could reduce consumer confidence, and thereby could negatively affect earnings and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, we cannot predict whether or when such circumstances may improve or worsen, or what impact, if any, such circumstances could have on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. our business is highly competitive. the global apparel retail industry is highly competitive. we compete with local, national, and global department stores, specialty and discount store chains, independent retail stores, and online businesses that market similar lines of merchandise. we face a variety of competitive challenges including: anticipating and quickly responding to changing apparel trends and customer demands; attracting customer traffic; competitively pricing our products and achieving customer perception of value; maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to customers in several diverse market segments; developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors, and styles that appeal to customers of varying age groups and tastes; 8 table of contents sourcing merchandise efficiently; and providing strong and effective marketing support. in addition, our franchisees face significant competition in the markets in which they operate. if we or our franchisees are not able to compete successfully in the united states or internationally, our results of operations could be adversely affected. furthermore, beginning in fiscal 2013, we will combine all channels and geographies under one global leader each for gap, banana republic, and old navy. we do not have experience operating under this new global brand structure. if we are not successful in competing effectively under this structure, our results of operations could be adversely affected. we must successfully gauge apparel trends and changing consumer preferences to succeed. our success is largely dependent upon our ability to gauge the tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand in a timely manner. however, lead times for many of our purchases are long, which may make it more difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing apparel trends or consumer acceptance of our products. the global apparel retail business fluctuates according to changes in consumer preferences, dictated in part by apparel trends and season. to the extent we misjudge the market for our merchandise or the products suitable for local markets or fail to execute trends and deliver product to market as timely as our competitors, our sales will be adversely affected, and the markdowns required to move the resulting excess inventory will adversely affect our operating results. some of our past product offerings have not been well received by our broad and diverse customer base. merchandise misjudgments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to changing apparel trends depends in part on our ability to attract and retain key personnel in our design, merchandising, marketing, and other functions in the context of our new global brand structure announced in october 2012. competition for this personnel is intense, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel in future periods. fluctuations in the global apparel retail business especially affect the inventory owned by apparel retailers, as merchandise usually must be ordered well in advance of the season and frequently before apparel trends are evidenced by customer purchases. in addition, the nature of the global apparel retail business requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory, especially prior to the peak holiday selling season when we build up our inventory levels. we must enter into contracts for the purchase and manufacture of merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season. as a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to suboptimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. in the past, we have not always predicted our customers' preferences and acceptance levels of our trend items with accuracy. if sales do not meet expectations, too much inventory may cause excessive markdowns and, therefore, lower than planned margins. our business, including our costs and supply chain, is subject to risks associated with global sourcing and manufacturing. independent third parties manufacture nearly all of our products for us. as a result, we are directly impacted by increases in the cost of those products . for example, cotton prices rose substantially during fiscal 2011, which put significant pressure on our average unit costs and gross margins. if we experience significant increases in demand or need to replace an existing vendor, there can be no assurance that additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us or that any vendor would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. in addition, for any new manufacturing source, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train our vendors in our methods, products, quality control standards, and environmental, labor, health, and safety standards. moreover, in the event of a significant disruption in the supply of the fabrics or raw materials used by our vendors in the manufacture of our products, our vendors might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price. any delays, interruption, or increased costs in the manufacture of our products could result in lower sales and net income. because independent vendors manufacture nearly all of our products outside of our principal sales markets, third parties must transport our products over large geographic distances. delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion, or other factors, and costs and delays associated with transitioning between vendors, could adversely impact our financial performance. manufacturing delays or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as aircraft, which could adversely affect our gross margins. in addition, the cost of fuel is a significant component in transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our gross margins. 9 table of contents our efforts to expand internationally may not be successful. our current strategies include moving to a global brand structure and pursuing continued international expansion in a number of countries around the world through a number of channels. beginning in fiscal 2013, we will combine all channels and geographies under one global leader each for gap, banana republic, and old navy. each global brand president will oversee their brand's specialty, outlet, online, and franchise operations. we currently plan to open additional old navy stores outside of north america, open additional gap stores in china, open additional international outlet stores, and continue to grow online sales internationally. we have limited experience operating in some of these locations. in many of these locations, we face major, established competitors. in addition, in many of these locations, the real estate, employment and labor, transportation and logistics, regulatory, and other operating requirements differ dramatically from those in the places where we have experience. moreover, consumer tastes and trends may differ in many of these locations, and as a result, the sales of our products may not be successful or result in the margins we anticipate. in addition, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to our sales, profits, assets, and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. although we use instruments to hedge certain foreign currency risks, these measures may not succeed in offsetting all of the negative impact of foreign currency rate movements on our business and results of operations. if our international expansion plans are unsuccessful or do not deliver an appropriate return on our investments, our operations and financial results could be materially, adversely affected. our franchise business is subject to certain risks not directly within our control and could impair the value of our brands. we enter into franchise agreements with unaffiliated franchisees to operate stores in many countries around the world. under these agreements, third parties operate, or will operate, stores that sell apparel and related products under our brand names. the effect of these arrangements on our business and results of operations is uncertain and will depend upon various factors, including the demand for our products in new markets internationally and our ability to successfully identify appropriate third parties to act as franchisees, distributors, or in a similar capacity. in addition, certain aspects of these arrangements are not directly within our control, such as the ability of these third parties to meet their projections regarding store locations, store openings, and sales. other risks that may affect these third parties include general economic conditions in specific countries or markets, foreign exchange, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, and political instability. moreover, while the agreements we have entered into and plan to enter into in the future provide us with certain termination rights, the value of our brands could be impaired to the extent that these third parties do not operate their stores in a manner consistent with our requirements regarding our brand identities and customer experience standards. failure to protect the value of our brands, or any other harmful acts or omissions by a franchisee, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation. the market for prime real estate is competitive. our ability to effectively obtain real estate to open new stores nationally and internationally depends on the availability of real estate that meets our criteria for traffic, square footage, co-tenancies, lease economics, demographics, and other factors. we also must be able to effectively renew our existing store leases. in addition, in recent years, we have been seeking to downsize, consolidate, reposition, or close some of our real estate locations, which in most cases requires a modification of an existing store lease. failure to secure adequate new locations or successfully modify existing locations, or failure to effectively manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, the economic environment may at times make it difficult to determine the fair market rent of retail real estate properties within the united states and internationally. this could impact the quality of our decisions to exercise lease options at previously negotiated rents and the quality of our decisions to renew expiring leases at negotiated rents. any adverse effect on the quality of these decisions could impact our ability to retain real estate locations adequate to meet our targets or efficiently manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 10 table of contents we experience fluctuations in our comparable sales and margins. our success depends in part on our ability to improve sales, in particular at our largest brands. a variety of factors affect comparable sales and margins, including apparel trends, competition, current economic conditions, the timing of new merchandise releases and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, the success of marketing programs, and weather conditions. these factors may cause our comparable sales results to differ materially from prior periods and from expectations. our comparable sales, including the associated comparable online sales, have fluctuated significantly in the past on an annual, quarterly, and monthly basis. over the past 24 months, our reported monthly comparable sales have ranged from an increase of 10 percent in july 2012 to a decrease of 10 percent in march 2011. over the past five years, our reported gross margins have ranged from a high of 40.3 percent in fiscal 2009 to a low of 36.2 percent in fiscal 2011. in addition, over the past five years, our reported operating margins have ranged from a high of 13.4 percent in fiscal 2010 to a low of 9.9 percent in fiscal 2011. our ability to deliver strong comparable sales results and margins depends in large part on accurately forecasting demand and apparel trends, selecting effective marketing techniques, providing an appropriate mix of merchandise for our broad and diverse customer base, managing inventory effectively, using effective pricing strategies, and optimizing store performance. failure to meet the expectations of investors, securities analysts, or credit rating agencies in one or more future periods could reduce the market price of our common stock and cause our credit ratings to decline. changes in our credit profile or deterioration in market conditions may limit our access to the capital markets and adversely impact our financial results or our business initiatives. in the first quarter of fiscal 2011, given favorable market conditions and our history of generating consistent and strong operating cash flow, we made the strategic decision to issue debt. in april 2011, we issued $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.95 percent notes due april 12, 2021. as a result, we have additional costs that include interest payable semiannually on the notes. we also entered into a $400 million five-year term loan due april 2016, which was funded in may 2011 and repaid in full in august 2012. our cash flows from operations are the primary source of funds for these debt service payments. in this regard, we have generated annual cash flow from operations in excess of $1 billion per year for the past decade and ended fiscal 2012 with $1.5 billion of cash and cash equivalents on our balance sheet. we are also able to supplement near-term liquidity, if necessary, with our $500 million revolving credit facility. we continue to target a cash balance of about $1.2 billion, which provides not only for our working capital needs, but also a reserve for unexpected business downturns. however, if our cash flows from operations decline significantly we may be required to reprioritize our business initiatives to ensure that we can continue to service or refinance our debt with favorable rates and terms. in addition, any future reduction in our long-term senior unsecured credit ratings could result in reduced access to the credit and capital markets and higher interest costs on future financings. we remain committed to maintaining a strong financial profile with ample liquidity. proceeds from the debt issuance were used for general corporate purposes including share repurchases. for further information on our debt and credit facilities, see item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, notes 5 and 6 of notes to consolidated financial statements of this form 10-k. trade matters may disrupt our supply chain. trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, safeguards, and customs restrictions against apparel items, as well as u.s. or foreign labor strikes, work stoppages, or boycotts, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of apparel available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we cannot predict whether any of the countries in which our merchandise currently is manufactured or may be manufactured in the future will be subject to additional trade restrictions imposed by the united states and other foreign governments, including the likelihood, type, or effect of any such restrictions. in addition, we face the possibility of anti-dumping or countervailing duties lawsuits from u.s. domestic producers. we are unable to determine the impact of the changes to the quota system or the impact that potential tariff lawsuits could have on our global sourcing operations. our sourcing operations may be adversely affected by trade limits or political and financial instability, resulting in the disruption of trade from exporting countries, significant fluctuation in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies, restrictions on the transfer of funds, and/or other trade disruptions. 11 table of contents updates or changes to our it systems may disrupt operations. we continue to evaluate and implement upgrades and changes to our it systems, some of which are significant. upgrades involve replacing existing systems with successor systems, making changes to existing systems, or cost-effectively acquiring new systems with new functionality. we are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing these systems, including accurately capturing data and system disruptions, and believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through testing, training, and staging implementation, as well as ensuring appropriate commercial contracts are in place with third-party vendors supplying or supporting our it initiatives. however, there can be no assurances that we will successfully launch these systems as planned or that they will occur without disruptions to our operations. it system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, or failure to successfully implement new or upgraded systems, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our it services agreement with ibm could cause disruptions in our operations and have an adverse effect on our financial results. we have entered into the eighth year of a ten-year non-exclusive services agreement under which ibm operates certain significant aspects of our it infrastructure. under the original agreement, this included supporting our mainframe, server, network and data center, and store operations, as well as help desk, end user support, and some disaster recovery. since the original agreement in january 2006, we have amended the agreement to take back certain services originally performed by ibm. these returned services include services related to management of our server and data center environment, along with disaster recovery, circuit expense billing, database administration services, and help desk services for stores worldwide. all other services remain with ibm per the original agreement. our ability to realize the expected benefits of this arrangement is subject to various risks, some of which are not within our complete control. these risks include, but are not limited to, disruption in services and the failure to protect the security and integrity of the company's data under the terms of the agreement. we are unable to provide assurances that some or all of these risks will not occur. failure to effectively mitigate these risks, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. we are subject to cybersecurity risks and may incur increasing costs in an effort to minimize those risks. our business employs systems and websites that allow for the secure storage and transmission of proprietary or confidential information regarding our customers, employees, job applicants, and others, including credit card information and personal identification information. security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation, and potential liability. we may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks. attacks may be targeted at us, our customers, or others who have entrusted us with information. actual or anticipated attacks may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third-party experts and consultants. advances in computer capabilities, new technological discoveries, or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect transaction or other data being breached or compromised. in addition, data and security breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues, including intentional or inadvertent breach by our employees or by persons with whom we have commercial relationships that result in the unauthorized release of personal or confidential information. any compromise or breach of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation. our results could be adversely affected by natural disasters, public health crises, political crises, or other catastrophic events. natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, earthquakes, and other adverse weather and climate conditions; unforeseen public health crises, such as pandemics and epidemics; political crises, such as terrorist attacks, war, and other political instability; or other catastrophic events, whether occurring in the united states or internationally, could disrupt our operations, the operations of our franchisees, or the operations of one or more of our vendors. in particular, these types of events could impact our product supply chain from or to the impacted region and could impact our ability or the ability of our franchisees or other third parties to operate our stores or websites. in addition, these types of events could negatively impact consumer spending in the impacted regions or depending upon the severity, globally. to the extent any of these events occur, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. 12 table of contents failure of our vendors to adhere to our code of vendor conduct could harm our business. we purchase nearly all merchandise from third-party vendors outside of the united states and we require those vendors to adhere to a code of vendor conduct and other environmental, labor, health, and safety standards for the benefit of their workers. from time to time, contractors or their subcontractors may not be in compliance with these standards or applicable local laws. significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more contractors could have a negative impact on our reputation and an adverse effect on our results of operations. changes in the regulatory or administrative landscape could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. laws and regulations at the local, state, federal, and international levels frequently change, and the ultimate cost of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. in addition, we cannot predict the impact that may result from changes in the regulatory or administrative landscape. any changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations, or the enactment of any new or more stringent legislation that impacts employment and labor, trade, product safety, transportation and logistics, health care, tax, privacy, operations, or environmental issues, among others, could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 28 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. derivative financial instruments we operate in foreign countries, which exposes us to market risk associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. our risk management policy is to hedge the following using foreign exchange forward contracts: (1) a significant portion of forecasted merchandise purchases denominated primarily in u.s. dollars made by our international subsidiaries whose functional currencies are their local currencies; (2) forecasted intercompany royalty payments; (3) forecasted intercompany revenue transactions related to merchandise sold from our regional purchasing entity, whose functional currency is the u.s. dollar, to certain international subsidiaries in their local currencies; and (4) intercompany obligations that bear foreign exchange risk. we also use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge the net assets of international subsidiaries to offset the foreign currency translation and economic exposures related to our investment in the subsidiaries. these contracts are entered into with large, reputable financial institutions that are monitored for counterparty risk. the principal currencies hedged against changes in the u.s. dollar are british pounds, canadian dollars, euro, and japanese yen. our use of derivative financial instruments represents risk management; we do not enter into derivative financial contracts for trading purposes. additional information is presented in item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, note 8 of notes to consolidated financial statements. our derivative financial instruments are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets at fair value as of the balance sheet dates. as of february 2, 2013 , we had foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding related to our forecasted merchandise purchases for foreign operations, forecasted intercompany royalty payments, forecasted intercompany revenue transactions, and intercompany obligations that bear foreign exchange risk to buy the notional amounts of $988 million and 31 million british pounds. as of february 2, 2013 , we had foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding to hedge the net assets of our subsidiaries in the notional amount of 25 million euro. we have performed a sensitivity analysis as of february 2, 2013 based on a model that measures the impact of a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in the level of foreign currency exchange rates to u.s. dollars (with all other variables held constant) on our underlying exposure, net of derivative financial instruments. the foreign currency exchange rates used in the model were based on the spot rates in effect as of february 2, 2013 . the sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10 percent adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would have an unfavorable impact on the underlying cash flow exposure, net of our foreign exchange derivative financial instruments, of $33 million as of february 2, 2013 . 28 table of contents long-term debt in april 2011 , we issued $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.95 percent notes due april 2021 and received proceeds of $1.24 billion in cash, net of underwriting and other fees. interest is payable semi-annually on april 12 and october 12 of each year and commenced on october 12, 2011. the notes are not subject to interest rate risk, as they have a fixed interest rate. cash equivalents we have highly liquid fixed and variable income investments classified as cash equivalents, which are placed primarily in money market funds, time deposits, and commercial paper. these investments are classified as held-to-maturity based on our positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity. we value these investments at their original purchase prices plus interest that has accrued at the stated rate. the value of our investments is not subject to material interest rate risk. however, changes in interest rates would impact the interest income derived from our investments. we earned interest income of $6 million in fiscal 2012 . 29 table of contentsrisk factors 5 risk factors. our past performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance because actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to the risks and uncertainties discussed below. in addition, historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. global economic conditions and the impact on consumer spending patterns could adversely impact our results of operations. the company's performance is subject to global economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending worldwide. some of the factors influencing consumer spending include high levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, reductions in net worth based on market declines and uncertainty, home foreclosures and reductions in home values, fluctuating interest rates and credit availability, government austerity measures, fluctuating fuel and other energy costs, fluctuating commodity prices, and general uncertainty regarding the overall future economic environment. consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, generally decline during periods when disposable income is adversely affected or there is economic uncertainty. adverse economic changes in any of the regions in which we and our franchisees sell our products could reduce consumer confidence, and thereby could negatively affect earnings and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in challenging and uncertain economic environments, we cannot predict whether or when such circumstances may improve or worsen, or what impact, if any, such circumstances could have on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. our business is highly competitive. the global apparel retail industry is highly competitive. we and our franchisees compete with local, national, and global department stores, specialty and discount store chains, independent retail stores, and online businesses that market similar lines of merchandise. we face a variety of competitive challenges including: anticipating and quickly responding to changing apparel trends and customer demands; attracting customer traffic both in stores and online; competitively pricing our products and achieving customer perception of value; maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to customers in several diverse market segments and geographic locations; developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors, and styles that appeal to customers of varying age groups and tastes; and sourcing merchandise efficiently. if we or our franchisees are not able to compete successfully in the united states or internationally, our results of operations would be adversely affected. we must successfully gauge apparel trends and changing consumer preferences to succeed. our success is largely dependent upon our ability to gauge the tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand in a timely manner. however, lead times for many of our design and purchasing decisions may be long, which makes it more difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing apparel trends or consumer acceptance of our products. the global apparel retail business fluctuates according to changes in consumer preferences, dictated in part by apparel trends and season. to the extent we misjudge the market for our merchandise or the products suitable for local markets or fail to execute trends and deliver product to market as timely as our competitors, our sales will be adversely affected, and the markdowns required to move the resulting excess inventory will adversely affect our operating results. 5 if we are unable to manage our inventory effectively, our gross margins could be adversely affected. fluctuations in the global apparel retail markets impacts the levels of inventory owned by apparel retailers, as merchandise usually must be ordered well in advance of the season and frequently before apparel trends are confirmed by customer purchases. in addition, the nature of the global apparel retail business requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory, especially prior to the peak holiday selling season when we build up our inventory levels. we must enter into contracts for the purchase and manufacture of merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season. as a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to suboptimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. in the past, we have not always predicted our customers' preferences and acceptance levels of our trend items with accuracy. if sales do not meet expectations, too much inventory may cause excessive markdowns and, therefore, lower than planned margins. we have key strategic initiatives designed to optimize our inventory levels and increase the efficiency and responsiveness of our supply chain, including our seamless inventory and responsive supply chain initiatives. aspects of seamless inventory include more timely matching of product supply and demand across markets and channels to reduce stranded inventory. aspects of responsive supply chain include more vendor fabric platforming, product demand testing, and in-season rapid response to demand. these initiatives involve significant systems and operational changes and we have limited experience operating in this manner. if we are unable to implement these initiatives successfully, we may not realize the return on our investments that we anticipate, and our operating results could be adversely affected. our efforts to expand internationally may not be successful. our current strategies include moving to a global brand structure and pursuing continued international expansion in a number of countries around the world through a number of channels. beginning in fiscal 2013, we combined all channels and geographies under one global leader for each of the gap, banana republic, and old navy brands. each global brand president oversees their brand's specialty, outlet, online, and franchise operations. in addition, we currently plan to open additional old navy stores outside of north america, open additional gap stores in china, open additional international outlet stores, and continue to grow online sales internationally. we have limited experience operating in some of these locations. in many of these locations, we face major, established competitors. in addition, in many of these locations, the real estate, employment and labor, transportation and logistics, regulatory, and other operating requirements differ dramatically from those in the places where we have experience. moreover, consumer tastes and trends may differ in many of these locations, and as a result, the sales of our products may not be successful or result in the margins we anticipate. if our international expansion plans are unsuccessful or do not deliver an appropriate return on our investments, our operations and financial results could be materially, adversely affected. in addition, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to our sales, profits, assets, and liabilities generated or incurred outside the u.s. although we use instruments to hedge certain foreign currency risks, these measures may not succeed in offsetting all of the negative impact of foreign currency rate movements and generally only delay the impact of adverse foreign currency rate movements on our business and financial results. our business, including our costs and supply chain, is subject to risks associated with global sourcing and manufacturing. independent third parties manufacture all of our products for us. as a result, we are directly impacted by increases in the cost of those products . 6 if we experience significant increases in demand or need to replace an existing vendor, there can be no assurance that additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us or that any vendor would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. in addition, for any new manufacturing source, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train our vendors in our methods, products, quality control standards, and environmental, labor, health, and safety standards. moreover, in the event of a significant disruption in the supply of the fabrics or raw materials used by our vendors in the manufacture of our products, our vendors might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price. any delays, interruption, or increased costs in the manufacture of our products could result in lower sales and net income. in addition, certain countries represent a larger portion of our global sourcing. for example, approximately 28 percent of our merchandise, by dollar value, is purchased from china. accordingly, any delays in production and added costs in this country could have a more significant impact on our results of operations. because independent vendors manufacture all of our products outside of our principal sales markets, third parties must transport our products over large geographic distances. delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion, or other factors, and costs and delays associated with transitioning between vendors, could adversely impact our financial performance. manufacturing delays or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as aircraft, which could adversely affect our gross margins. in addition, the cost of fuel is a significant component in transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our gross margins. risks associated with importing merchandise from foreign countries, including failure of our vendors to adhere to our code of vendor conduct, could harm our business. we purchase nearly all merchandise from third-party vendors in many different countries and we require those vendors to adhere to a code of vendor conduct which includes environmental, labor, health, and safety standards. from time to time, contractors or their subcontractors may not be in compliance with these standards or applicable local laws. although we have implemented policies and procedures to facilitate our compliance with laws and regulations relating to doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise into various countries, there can be no assurance that suppliers and other third parties with whom we do business will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies. significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more vendors could have a negative impact on our reputation, could subject us to liability, and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. trade matters may disrupt our supply chain. trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, safeguards, and customs restrictions against apparel items, as well as u.s. or foreign labor strikes, work stoppages, or boycotts, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of apparel available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we cannot predict whether any of the countries in which our merchandise currently is manufactured or may be manufactured in the future will be subject to additional trade restrictions imposed by the united states and other foreign governments, including the likelihood, type, or effect of any such restrictions. in addition, we face the possibility of anti-dumping or countervailing duties lawsuits from u.s. domestic producers. we are unable to determine the impact of the changes to the quota system or the impact that potential tariff lawsuits could have on our global sourcing operations. our sourcing operations may be adversely affected by trade limits or political and financial instability, resulting in the disruption of trade from exporting countries, significant fluctuation in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies, restrictions on the transfer of funds, and/or other trade disruptions. 7 our franchise business is subject to certain risks not directly within our control that could impair the value of our brands. we enter into franchise agreements with unaffiliated franchisees to operate stores in many countries around the world. under these agreements, third parties operate, or will operate, stores that sell apparel and related products under our brand names. the effect of these arrangements on our business and results of operations is uncertain and will depend upon various factors, including the demand for our products in new markets internationally and our ability to successfully identify appropriate third parties to act as franchisees, distributors, or in a similar capacity. in addition, certain aspects of these arrangements are not directly within our control, such as franchisee financial stability and the ability of these third parties to meet their projections regarding store locations, store openings, and sales. other risks that may affect these third parties include general economic conditions in specific countries or markets, foreign exchange rates, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, restrictions on the transfer of funds, and political instability. moreover, while the agreements we have entered into and plan to enter into in the future provide us with certain termination rights, the value of our brands could be impaired to the extent that these third parties do not operate their stores in a manner consistent with our requirements regarding our brand identities and customer experience standards. failure to protect the value of our brands, or any other harmful acts or omissions by a franchisee, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation. the market for prime real estate is competitive. our ability to effectively obtain real estate - to open new stores, distribution centers, and corporate offices nationally and internationally - depends on the availability of real estate that meets our criteria for traffic, square footage, co-tenancies, lease economics, demographics, and other factors. we also must be able to effectively renew our existing store leases. in addition, from time to time, we may seek to downsize, consolidate, reposition, or close some of our real estate locations, which in most cases requires a modification of an existing store lease. failure to secure adequate new locations or successfully modify existing locations, or failure to effectively manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, the economic environment may at times make it difficult to determine the fair market rent of real estate properties within the united states and internationally. this could impact the quality of our decisions to exercise lease options at previously negotiated rents and the quality of our decisions to renew expiring leases at negotiated rents. any adverse effect on the quality of these decisions could impact our ability to retain real estate locations adequate to meet our targets or efficiently manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we experience fluctuations in our comparable sales and margins. our success depends in part on our ability to improve sales, in particular at our largest brands. a variety of factors affect comparable sales or margins, including apparel trends, competition, current economic conditions, the timing of new merchandise releases and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, the success of marketing programs, foreign currency fluctuations, and weather conditions. these factors may cause our comparable sales results to differ materially from prior periods and from expectations. our comparable sales, including the associated comparable online sales, have fluctuated significantly in the past on an annual, quarterly, and monthly basis. over the past 24 months, our reported monthly comparable sales have ranged from an increase of 10 percent in july 2012 to a decrease of 3 percent in september 2013. over the past five years, our reported gross margins have ranged from a high of 40.3 percent in fiscal 2009 to a low of 36.2 percent in fiscal 2011. in addition, over the past five years, our reported operating margins have ranged from a high of 13.4 percent in fiscal 2010 to a low of 9.9 percent in fiscal 2011. our ability to deliver strong comparable sales results and margins depends in large part on accurately forecasting demand and apparel trends, selecting effective marketing techniques, providing an appropriate mix of merchandise for our broad and diverse customer base, managing inventory effectively, using effective pricing strategies, and optimizing store performance. failure to meet the expectations of investors, securities analysts, or credit rating agencies in one or more future periods could reduce the market price of our common stock and cause our credit ratings to decline. 8 changes in our credit profile or deterioration in market conditions may limit our access to the capital markets and adversely impact our financial results or our business initiatives. in the first quarter of fiscal 2011, given favorable market conditions and our history of generating consistent and strong operating cash flow, we made the strategic decision to issue debt. in april 2011, we issued $ 1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.95 percent notes due april 12, 2021 . as a result, we have additional costs that include interest payable semiannually on the notes. we also entered into a 15 billion japanese yen ($147 million as of february 1, 2014), four-year term loan due january 2018. our cash flows from operations are the primary source of funds for these debt service payments. in this regard, we have generated annual cash flow from operations in excess of $1 billion per year for the past decade and ended fiscal 2013 with $1.5 billion of cash and cash equivalents on our balance sheet. we are also able to supplement near-term liquidity, if necessary, with our $ 500 million revolving credit facility. we continue to target a cash balance of about $1.2 billion, which provides not only for our working capital needs, but also a reserve for unexpected business downturns. however, if our cash flows from operations decline significantly, we may be required to reprioritize our business initiatives to ensure that we can continue to service or refinance our debt with favorable rates and terms. in addition, any future reduction in our long-term senior unsecured credit ratings could result in reduced access to the credit and capital markets and higher interest costs on future financings. we remain committed to maintaining a strong financial profile with ample liquidity. for further information on our debt and credit facilities, see part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, notes 5 and 6 of notes to consolidated financial statements of this form 10-k. the failure to attract and retain key personnel could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to changing apparel trends depends in part on our ability to attract and retain key personnel in our design, merchandising, marketing, and other functions. in addition, several of our strategic initiatives, including our technology initiatives and supply chain initiatives require that we hire and/or develop employees with appropriate experience. competition for this personnel is intense, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel in future periods. if we are unable to retain, attract, and motivate talented employees with the appropriate skill sets, or if changes to our organizational structure, operating results, or business model adversely affect morale or retention, we may not achieve our objectives and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. in addition, the loss of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to effectively identify a suitable successor to a key role in our senior management positions could have a material adverse effect on our business. our investments in omni-channel shopping initiatives may not deliver the results we anticipate. one of our strategic priorities is to further develop an omni-channel shopping experience for our customers through the integration of our store and digital shopping channels. examples of our recent omni-channel initiatives include our ship-from-store and reserve-in-store programs, in which store inventory can be used to satisfy online demand. we continue to explore additional ways to develop an omni-channel shopping experience, including further digital integration and customer personalization. these initiatives involve significant investments in it systems and significant operational changes. in addition, our competitors are also investing in omni-channel initiatives, some of which may be more successful than our initiatives . if the implementation of our omni-channel initiatives is not successful, or we do not realize the return on our omni-channel investments that we anticipate, our operating results would be adversely affected. 9 updates or changes to our it systems may disrupt operations. we continue to evaluate and implement upgrades and changes to our it systems, some of which are significant. upgrades involve replacing existing systems with successor systems, making changes to existing systems, or cost-effectively acquiring new systems with new functionality. we are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing these systems, including accurately capturing data and system disruptions, and believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through testing, training, and staging implementation, as well as ensuring appropriate commercial contracts are in place with third-party vendors supplying or supporting our it initiatives. however, there can be no assurances that we will successfully launch these systems as planned or that they will occur without disruptions to our operations. it system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, or failure to successfully implement new or upgraded systems, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we are subject to data security risks, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and consumer confidence in our security measures. as part of our normal operations, we receive and maintain confidential information about our customers, our employees, and other third parties. our business employs systems and websites that allow for the secure storage and transmission of proprietary or confidential information regarding our customers, employees, job applicants, and others, including credit card information and personal identification information. security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation, and potential liability. despite our safeguards and security processes and protections, we may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks. attacks may be targeted at us, our customers, or others who have entrusted us with information. actual or anticipated attacks may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third-party experts and consultants. advances in computer capabilities, new technological discoveries, or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect transaction or other data being breached or compromised. in addition, data and security breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues, including intentional or inadvertent breach by our employees or by persons with whom we have commercial relationships that result in the unauthorized release of personal or confidential information. any compromise or breach of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, and a loss of consumer confidence in our security measures, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation. our results could be adversely affected by natural disasters, public health crises, political crises, or other catastrophic events. natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, earthquakes, and other adverse weather and climate conditions; unforeseen public health crises, such as pandemics and epidemics; political crises, such as terrorist attacks, war, and other political instability; or other catastrophic events, such as disasters occurring at our vendors' manufacturing facilities, whether occurring in the united states or internationally, could disrupt our operations, the operations of our franchisees, or the operations of one or more of our vendors. in particular, these types of events could impact our product supply chain from or to the impacted region and could impact our ability or the ability of our franchisees or other third parties to operate our stores or websites. in addition, these types of events could negatively impact consumer spending in the impacted regions or depending upon the severity, globally. disasters occurring at our vendors ' manufacturing facilities could impact our reputation and our customers ' perception of our brands. to the extent any of these events occur, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. 10 changes in the regulatory or administrative landscape could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. laws and regulations at the local, state, federal, and international levels frequently change, and the ultimate cost of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. in addition, we cannot predict the impact that may result from changes in the regulatory or administrative landscape. any changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations, or the enactment of any new or more stringent legislation that impacts employment and labor, trade, product safety, transportation and logistics, health care, tax, privacy, operations, or environmental issues, among others, could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 31 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. derivative financial instruments we operate in foreign countries, which exposes us to market risk associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. consistent with our risk management guidelines, we hedge the following using foreign exchange forward contracts: (1) a significant portion of forecasted merchandise purchases and related costs denominated primarily in u.s. dollars made by our international subsidiaries whose functional currencies are their local currencies; (2) forecasted intercompany royalty payments denominated in foreign currencies received by entities whose functional currencies are u.s. dollars; (3) forecasted intercompany revenue transactions related to merchandise sold from our regional purchasing entity, whose functional currency is the u.s. dollar, to certain international subsidiaries in their local currencies; and (4) intercompany obligations that bear foreign exchange risk. we also use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge the net assets of international subsidiaries to offset the foreign currency translation and economic exposures related to our investment in the subsidiaries. these contracts are entered into with large, reputable financial institutions that are monitored for counterparty risk. the principal currencies hedged against changes in the u.s. dollar are british pounds, canadian dollars, euro, and japanese yen. our use of derivative financial instruments represents risk management; we do not enter into derivative financial contracts for trading purposes. additional information is presented in item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, note 8 of notes to consolidated financial statements. our derivative financial instruments are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets at fair value as of the balance sheet dates. as of february 1, 2014 , we had foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding related to our forecasted merchandise purchases for foreign operations, forecasted intercompany royalty payments, forecasted intercompany revenue transactions, and intercompany obligations that bear foreign exchange risk to buy the notional amounts of $1.3 billion . as of february 1, 2014 , we had foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding to hedge the net assets of our subsidiaries in the notional amount of 8 million canadian dollars and 25 million euro. we have performed a sensitivity analysis as of february 1, 2014 based on a model that measures the impact of a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in the level of foreign currency exchange rates to u.s. dollars (with all other variables held constant) on our underlying exposure, net of derivative financial instruments. the foreign currency exchange rates used in the model were based on the spot rates in effect as of february 1, 2014 . the sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10 percent adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would have an unfavorable impact on the underlying cash flow exposure, net of our foreign exchange derivative financial instruments, of $30 million as of february 1, 2014 . long-term debt in april 2011 , we issued $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.95 percent notes due april 2021 and received proceeds of $1.24 billion in cash, net of underwriting and other fees. interest is payable semi-annually on april 12 and october 12 of each year and commenced on october 12, 2011. the notes are not subject to interest rate risk, as they have a fixed interest rate. in january 2014, we entered into a 15 billion japanese yen ( $147 million as of february 1, 2014 ), four-year, unsecured japan term loan due january 2018. repayments of 2.5 billion japanese yen are payable on january 15 of each year, commencing on january 15, 2015, with a final repayment of 7.5 billion japanese yen due on january 15, 2018. in addition, interest is payable at least quarterly based on tibor plus a fixed margin. the average interest rate during fiscal 2013 was 1 percent . our interest rate risk associated with the japan term loan as of february 1, 2014 is as follows: expected maturity date (fiscal year) ( in billions) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 total fair value (1) principal payments 2.5 2.5 2.5 7.5 15 15 average interest rate (2) 1 % 1 % 1 % 1 % % 1 % __________ (1) the carrying amount of the japan term loan approximates its fair value, as the interest rate varies depending on market rates. 31 (2) the average interest rate for all periods presented was calculated based on tibor plus a fixed margin as of february 1, 2014 . as the interest rate for the term loan is variable, it is subject to change for all periods presented. cash equivalents we have highly liquid fixed and variable income investments classified as cash equivalents, which are placed primarily in money market funds, time deposits, and commercial paper. these investments are classified as held-to-maturity based on our positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity. we value these investments at their original purchase prices plus interest that has accrued at the stated rate. the value of our investments is not subject to material interest rate risk. however, changes in interest rates would impact the interest income derived from our investments. we earned interest income of $5 million in fiscal 2013 . 32risk factors 5 risk factors. our past performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance because actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to the risks and uncertainties discussed below. in addition, historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. we must successfully gauge apparel trends and changing consumer preferences to succeed. our success is largely dependent upon our ability to gauge the tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand in a timely manner. however, lead times for many of our design and purchasing decisions may make it more difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing apparel trends or consumer acceptance of our products. the global apparel retail business fluctuates according to changes in consumer preferences, dictated in part by apparel trends and season. to the extent we misjudge the market for our merchandise or the products suitable for local markets or fail to execute trends and deliver product to market as timely as our competitors, our sales will be adversely affected, and the markdowns required to move the resulting excess inventory will adversely affect our operating results. for example, during fiscal 2014, product acceptance at gap brand, in particular, was below expectations, and as a result, our financial results were negatively impacted. global economic conditions and the impact on consumer spending patterns could adversely impact our results of operations. the company's performance is subject to global economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending worldwide. some of the factors that may influence consumer spending include high levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, reductions in net worth based on market declines and uncertainty, home foreclosures and reductions in home values, fluctuating interest rates and credit availability, government austerity measures, fluctuating fuel and other energy costs, fluctuating commodity prices, and general uncertainty regarding the overall future economic environment. consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, generally decline during periods when disposable income is adversely affected or there is economic uncertainty. adverse economic changes in any of the regions in which we and our franchisees sell our products could reduce consumer confidence, and thereby could negatively affect earnings and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in challenging and uncertain economic environments, we cannot predict whether or when such circumstances may improve or worsen, or what impact, if any, such circumstances could have on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. our business is highly competitive. the global apparel retail industry is highly competitive. we and our franchisees compete with local, national, and global department stores, specialty and discount store chains, independent retail stores, and online businesses that market similar lines of merchandise. we face a variety of competitive challenges including: anticipating and quickly responding to changing apparel trends and customer demands; attracting customer traffic both in stores and online; competitively pricing our products and achieving customer perception of value; maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to customers in several diverse market segments and geographic locations; anticipating and responding to changing customer shopping preferences and practices, including the increasing shift to digital brand engagement, social media communication, and online shopping; developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors, and styles that appeal to customers of varying age groups and tastes; and 5 sourcing merchandise efficiently. if we or our franchisees are not able to compete successfully in the united states or internationally, our results of operations would be adversely affected. if we are unable to manage our inventory effectively, our gross margins could be adversely affected. fluctuations in the global apparel retail markets impact the levels of inventory owned by apparel retailers, as merchandise usually must be ordered well in advance of the season and frequently before apparel trends are confirmed by customer purchases. in addition, the nature of the global apparel retail business requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory, especially prior to the peak holiday selling season when we build up our inventory levels. we must enter into contracts for the purchase and manufacture of merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season. as a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to suboptimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. in the past, we have not always predicted our customers' preferences and acceptance levels of our trend items with accuracy. if sales do not meet expectations, too much inventory may cause excessive markdowns and, therefore, lower than planned margins. we have key strategic initiatives designed to optimize our inventory levels and increase the efficiency and responsiveness of our supply chain, including our seamless inventory and responsive supply chain initiatives. aspects of seamless inventory include more timely matching of product supply and demand across markets and channels to reduce stranded inventory. aspects of responsive supply chain include more vendor fabric platforming, product demand testing, and in-season rapid response to demand. these initiatives involve significant systems and operational changes and we have limited experience operating in this manner. if we are unable to implement these initiatives successfully, we may not realize the return on our investments that we anticipate, and our operating results could be adversely affected. our efforts to expand internationally may not be successful. our current strategies include pursuing continued international expansion in a number of countries around the world through a number of channels. we currently plan to open additional old navy stores outside of north america, including in japan and china, open additional gap stores in china, open additional international outlet stores, and continue to grow online sales internationally. our franchisees plan to open additional stores internationally. we have limited experience operating or franchising in some of these locations. in many of these locations, we face major, established competitors. in addition, in many of these locations, the real estate, employment and labor, transportation and logistics, regulatory, and other operating requirements differ dramatically from those in the places where we have more experience. consumer tastes and trends may differ in many of these locations and, as a result, the sales of our products may not be successful or result in the margins we anticipate. if our international expansion plans are unsuccessful or do not deliver an appropriate return on our investments, our operations and financial results could be materially, adversely affected. in addition, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to our sales, inventory purchases, operating expenses, profits, assets, and liabilities generated or incurred outside the u.s. although we use instruments to hedge certain foreign currency risks, these measures may not succeed in fully offsetting the negative impact of foreign currency rate movements and generally only delay the impact of adverse foreign currency rate movements on our business and financial results. for example, in fiscal year 2014, foreign exchange fluctuations, in particular the depreciation of the currencies in canada and japan where we have significant retail operations, had a significant impact on our financial results. we expect this impact to continue in fiscal year 2015. our business, including our costs and supply chain, is subject to risks associated with global sourcing and manufacturing. independent third parties manufacture all of our products for us. as a result, we are directly impacted by increases in the cost of those products . 6 if we experience significant increases in demand or need to replace an existing vendor, there can be no assurance that additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us or that any vendor would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. in addition, for any new manufacturing source, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train our vendors in our methods, products, quality control standards, and environmental, labor, health, and safety standards. moreover, in the event of a significant disruption in the supply of the fabrics or raw materials used by our vendors in the manufacture of our products, our vendors might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price. any delays, interruption, or increased costs in the manufacture of our products could result in lower sales and net income. in addition, certain countries represent a larger portion of our global sourcing. for example, approximately 27 percent of our merchandise, by dollar value, is purchased from factories in china. accordingly, any delays in production and added costs in china could have a more significant impact on our results of operations. because independent vendors manufacture virtually all of our products outside of our principal sales markets, third parties must transport our products over large geographic distances. delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion, or other factors, and costs and delays associated with transitioning between vendors, could adversely impact our financial performance. for example, the work slowdowns and stoppages at u.s. west coast ports at the end of fiscal 2014 and beginning of fiscal 2015 created product delivery delays that impacted our ability to effectively manage our inventory and deliver seasonally correct product in a timely manner, which could significantly impact our financial results for fiscal 2015. manufacturing delays, transportation delays, or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as aircraft, which could adversely affect our gross margins. in addition, the cost of fuel is a significant component in transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our gross margins. risks associated with importing merchandise from foreign countries, including failure of our vendors to adhere to our code of vendor conduct, could harm our business. we purchase nearly all merchandise from third-party vendors in many different countries and we require those vendors to adhere to a code of vendor conduct which includes environmental, labor, health, and safety standards. from time to time, contractors or their subcontractors may not be in compliance with these standards or applicable local laws. although we have implemented policies and procedures to facilitate our compliance with laws and regulations relating to doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise into various countries, there can be no assurance that suppliers and other third parties with whom we do business will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies. significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more vendors could have a negative impact on our reputation, could subject us to liability, and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. trade matters may disrupt our supply chain. trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, safeguards, and customs restrictions against apparel items, as well as u.s. or foreign labor strikes, work stoppages, or boycotts, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of apparel available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we cannot predict whether any of the countries in which our merchandise currently is manufactured or may be manufactured in the future will be subject to additional trade restrictions imposed by the united states or other foreign governments, including the likelihood, type, or effect of any such restrictions. in addition, we face the possibility of anti-dumping or countervailing duties lawsuits from u.s. domestic producers. we are unable to determine the impact of the changes to the quota system or the impact that potential tariff lawsuits could have on our global sourcing operations. our sourcing operations may be adversely affected by trade limits or political and financial instability, resulting in the disruption of trade from exporting countries, significant fluctuation in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies, restrictions on the transfer of funds, and/or other trade disruptions. 7 our franchise business is subject to certain risks not directly within our control that could impair the value of our brands. we enter into franchise agreements with unaffiliated franchisees to operate stores and, in limited circumstances, websites in many countries around the world. under these agreements, third parties operate, or will operate, stores and websites that sell apparel and related products under our brand names. the effect of these arrangements on our business and results of operations is uncertain and will depend upon various factors, including the demand for our products in new markets internationally and our ability to successfully identify appropriate third parties to act as franchisees, distributors, or in a similar capacity. in addition, certain aspects of these arrangements are not directly within our control, such as franchisee financial stability and the ability of these third parties to meet their projections regarding store locations, store openings, and sales. other risks that may affect these third parties include general economic conditions in specific countries or markets, foreign exchange rates, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, restrictions on the transfer of funds, and political instability. moreover, while the agreements we have entered into and plan to enter into in the future provide us with certain termination rights, the value of our brands could be impaired to the extent that these third parties do not operate their stores in a manner consistent with our requirements regarding our brand identities and customer experience standards. failure to protect the value of our brands, or any other harmful acts or omissions by a franchisee, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation. the market for prime real estate is competitive. our ability to effectively obtain real estate - to open new stores, distribution centers, and corporate offices nationally and internationally - depends on the availability of real estate that meets our criteria for traffic, square footage, co-tenancies, lease economics, demographics, and other factors. we also must be able to effectively renew our existing store leases. in addition, from time to time, we may seek to downsize, consolidate, reposition, relocate, or close some of our real estate locations, which in most cases requires a modification of an existing store lease. failure to secure adequate new locations or successfully modify existing locations, or failure to effectively manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, the economic environment may at times make it difficult to determine the fair market rent of real estate properties within the united states and internationally. this could impact the quality of our decisions to exercise lease options at previously negotiated rents and the quality of our decisions to renew expiring leases at negotiated rents. any adverse effect on the quality of these decisions could impact our ability to retain real estate locations adequate to meet our targets or efficiently manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we are subject to data security risks, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and consumer confidence in our security measures. as part of our normal operations, we receive and maintain confidential, proprietary, and personally identifiable information, including credit card information, about our customers, our employees, job applicants, and other third parties. our business employs systems and websites that allow for the secure storage and transmission of this information. however, despite our safeguards and security processes and protections, security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation, and potential liability. the retail industry, in particular, has been the target of many recent cyber-attacks. we may not have the resources to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks. attacks may be targeted at us, our customers, or others who have entrusted us with information. in addition, even if we take appropriate measures to safeguard our information security and privacy environment from security breaches, we could still expose our customers and our business to risk. actual or anticipated attacks may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third-party experts and consultants. advances in computer capabilities, new technological discoveries, or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect transaction or other data being breached or compromised. measures we implement to protect against cyber-attacks may also have the potential to impact our customers' shopping experience or decrease activity on our websites by making them more difficult to use. data and security breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues, including intentional or inadvertent breach by our employees or 8 by persons with whom we have commercial relationships that result in the unauthorized release of personal or confidential information. in addition, the regulatory environment surrounding information security, cybersecurity, and privacy is increasingly demanding, with new and changing requirements, and customers have a high expectation that the company will adequately protect their personal information from cyber-attack or other security breaches. security breaches and cyber incidents could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, and a loss of consumer confidence in our security measures, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation. the failure to attract and retain key personnel, or effectively manage succession, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to changing apparel trends depends in part on our ability to attract and retain key personnel in our design, merchandising, marketing, and other functions. in addition, several of our strategic initiatives, including our technology initiatives and supply chain initiatives require that we hire and/or develop employees with appropriate experience. competition for this personnel is intense, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel in future periods. if we are unable to retain, attract, and motivate talented employees with the appropriate skill sets, or if changes to our organizational structure, operating results, or business model adversely affect morale or retention, we may not achieve our objectives and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. in addition, the loss of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to effectively identify a suitable successor to a key role could have a material adverse effect on our business. at the end of fiscal 2014 and beginning of fiscal 2015, there were several changes made to the members of our senior leadership team, including our chief executive officer, global president, gap, and global president, banana republic. the effectiveness of the new leaders in these roles, and any further transition as a result of these changes, could have a significant impact on our results of operations. our investments in omni-channel shopping initiatives may not deliver the results we anticipate. one of our strategic priorities is to further develop an omni-channel shopping experience for our customers through the integration of our store and digital shopping channels. examples of our recent omni-channel initiatives include our ship-from-store, reserve-in-store, and order-in-store programs. we continue to explore additional ways to develop an omni-channel shopping experience, including further digital integration and customer personalization. these initiatives involve significant investments in it systems and significant operational changes. in addition, our competitors are also investing in omni-channel initiatives, some of which may be more successful than our initiatives . if the implementation of our omni-channel initiatives is not successful, or we do not realize the return on our omni-channel investments that we anticipate, our operating results would be adversely affected. we experience fluctuations in our comparable sales and margins. our success depends in part on our ability to improve sales, in particular at our largest brands. a variety of factors affect comparable sales or margins, including apparel trends, competition, current economic conditions, the timing of new merchandise releases and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, the success of marketing programs, foreign currency fluctuations, and weather conditions. these factors may cause our comparable sales results to differ materially from prior periods and from expectations. our comparable sales, including the associated comparable online sales, have fluctuated significantly in the past on an annual, quarterly, and monthly basis. over the past 12 months, our reported monthly comparable sales have ranged from an increase of 9 percent in april 2014 to a decrease of 7 percent in february 2014. over the past five years, our reported gross margins have ranged from a high of 40.2 percent in fiscal 2010 to a low of 36.2 percent in fiscal 2011. in addition, over the past five years, our reported operating margins have ranged from a high of 13.4 percent in fiscal 2010 to a low of 9.9 percent in fiscal 2011. 9 our ability to deliver strong comparable sales results and margins depends in large part on accurately forecasting demand and apparel trends, selecting effective marketing techniques, providing an appropriate mix of merchandise for our broad and diverse customer base, managing inventory effectively, using effective pricing strategies, and optimizing store performance. failure to meet the expectations of investors, securities analysts, or credit rating agencies in one or more future periods could reduce the market price of our common stock and cause our credit ratings to decline. changes in our credit profile or deterioration in market conditions may limit our access to the capital markets and adversely impact our financial results or our business initiatives. in april 2011, we issued $ 1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.95 percent notes due april 2021 . as a result, we have additional costs that include interest payable semiannually on the notes. in january 2014, we also entered into a 15 billion japanese yen ( $128 million as of january 31, 2015 ), four-year term loan due january 2018. our cash flows from operations are the primary source of funds for these debt service payments. in this regard, we have generated annual cash flow from operating activities in excess of $1 billion per year for well over a decade and ended fiscal 2014 with $1.5 billion of cash and cash equivalents on our balance sheet. we are also able to supplement near-term liquidity, if necessary, with our $ 500 million revolving credit facility. we continue to target a cash balance between $1.0 billion to $1.2 billion, which provides not only for our working capital needs, but also a reserve for unexpected business downturns. however, if our cash flows from operating activities decline significantly, we may be required to reprioritize our business initiatives to ensure that we can continue to service or refinance our debt with favorable rates and terms. in addition, any future reduction in our long-term senior unsecured credit ratings could result in reduced access to the credit and capital markets and higher interest costs on future financings. for further information on our debt and credit facilities, see part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, notes 5 and 6 of notes to consolidated financial statements of this form 10-k. updates or changes to our it systems may disrupt operations. we continue to evaluate and implement upgrades and changes to our it systems, some of which are significant. upgrades involve replacing existing systems with successor systems, making changes to existing systems, or cost-effectively acquiring new systems with new functionality. we are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing these systems, including accurately capturing data and system disruptions, and believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through testing, training, and staging implementation, as well as ensuring appropriate commercial contracts are in place with third-party vendors supplying or supporting our it initiatives. however, there can be no assurances that we will successfully launch these systems as planned or that they will be implemented without disruptions to our operations. it system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, or failure to successfully implement new or upgraded systems, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 10 our results could be adversely affected by natural disasters, public health crises, political crises, or other catastrophic events. natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, earthquakes, and other adverse weather and climate conditions; unforeseen public health crises, such as pandemics and epidemics; political crises, such as terrorist attacks, war, labor unrest, and other political instability; or other catastrophic events, such as disasters occurring at our vendors' manufacturing facilities, whether occurring in the united states or internationally, could disrupt our operations, the operations of our franchisees, or the operations of one or more of our vendors. in particular, these types of events could impact our product supply chain from or to the impacted region and could impact our ability or the ability of our franchisees or other third parties to operate our stores or websites. in addition, these types of events could negatively impact consumer spending in the impacted regions or depending upon the severity, globally. disasters occurring at our vendors ' manufacturing facilities could impact our reputation and our customers ' perception of our brands. to the extent any of these events occur, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. changes in the regulatory or administrative landscape could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. laws and regulations at the local, state, federal, and international levels frequently change, and the ultimate cost of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. in addition, we cannot predict the impact that may result from changes in the regulatory or administrative landscape. any changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations, or the enactment of any new or more stringent legislation that impacts employment and labor, trade, product safety, transportation and logistics, health care, tax, privacy, operations, or environmental issues, among others, could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 31 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. derivative financial instruments certain financial information about the company's derivative financial instruments is set forth under the heading "derivative financial instruments" in note 8 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k. we have performed a sensitivity analysis as of january 31, 2015 based on a model that measures the impact of a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates to u.s. dollars (with all other variables held constant) on our underlying estimated major foreign currency exposures, net of derivative financial instruments. the foreign currency exchange rates used in the model were based on the spot rates in effect as of january 31, 2015 . the sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10 percent adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would have an unfavorable impact on the underlying cash flow exposure, net of our foreign exchange derivative financial instruments, of $31 million as of january 31, 2015 . long-term debt certain financial information about the company's long-term debt is set forth under the heading "long-term debt" in note 5 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k. our $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.95 percent notes due april 2021 are not subject to interest rate risk as they have a fixed interest rate. our interest rate risk associated with a 15 billion japanese yen ($128 million as of january 31, 2015), four-year, unsecured term loan as of january 31, 2015 is as follows: expected maturity date (fiscal year) ( in billions) 2015 2016 2017 2018 total fair value (1) principal payments 2.5 2.5 7.5 12.5 12.5 average interest rate (2) 1 % 1 % 1 % % 1 % __________ (1) the carrying amount of the japan term loan approximates its fair value as the interest rate varies depending on market rates. (2) the average interest rate for all periods presented was calculated based on the tokyo interbank offered rate plus a fixed margin as of january 31, 2015 . as the interest rate for the term loan is variable, it is subject to change for all periods presented. cash equivalents we have highly liquid fixed and variable income investments classified as cash equivalents, which are placed primarily in money market funds, time deposits, and commercial paper. these investments are classified as held-to-maturity based on our positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity. we value these investments at their original purchase prices plus interest that has accrued at the stated rate. the value of our investments is not subject to material interest rate risk. however, changes in interest rates would impact the interest income derived from our investments. we earned interest income of $5 million in fiscal 2014 . 31risk factors 4 risk factors. our past performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance because actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to the risks and uncertainties discussed below. in addition, historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. 4 we must successfully gauge apparel trends and changing consumer preferences to succeed. our success is largely dependent upon our ability to gauge the tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand in a timely manner. however, lead times for many of our design and purchasing decisions may make it more difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing apparel trends or consumer acceptance of our products. the global apparel retail business fluctuates according to changes in consumer preferences, dictated in part by apparel trends and season. to the extent we misjudge the market for our merchandise or the products suitable for local markets or fail to execute trends and deliver product to market as timely as our competitors, our sales will be adversely affected, and the markdowns required to move the resulting excess inventory will adversely affect our operating results. for example, during fiscal 2015, product acceptance at banana republic and gap brand, in particular, was below expectations, and as a result, our financial results were negatively impacted. global economic conditions and the impact on consumer spending patterns could adversely impact our results of operations. the company's performance is subject to global economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending worldwide. some of the factors that may influence consumer spending include high levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, reductions in net worth based on market declines and uncertainty, home foreclosures and reductions in home values, fluctuating interest rates and credit availability, government austerity measures, fluctuating fuel and other energy costs, fluctuating commodity prices, and general uncertainty regarding the overall future economic environment. consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, generally decline during periods when disposable income is adversely affected or there is economic uncertainty. adverse economic changes in any of the regions in which we and our franchisees sell our products could reduce consumer confidence, and thereby could negatively affect earnings and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in challenging and uncertain economic environments, we cannot predict whether or when such circumstances may improve or worsen, or what impact, if any, such circumstances could have on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. our business is highly competitive. the global apparel retail industry is highly competitive. we and our franchisees compete with local, national, and global department stores, specialty and discount store chains, independent retail stores, and online businesses that market similar lines of merchandise. we face a variety of competitive challenges including: anticipating and quickly responding to changing apparel trends and customer demands; attracting customer traffic both in stores and online; competitively pricing our products and achieving customer perception of value; maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to customers in several diverse market segments and geographic locations; anticipating and responding to changing customer shopping preferences and practices, including the increasing shift to digital brand engagement, social media communication, and online shopping; developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors, and styles that appeal to customers of varying age groups and tastes; purchasing and stocking merchandise to match seasonal weather patterns, and our ability to react to shifts in weather that impact consumer demand; and sourcing merchandise efficiently. if we or our franchisees are not able to compete successfully in the united states or internationally, our results of operations would be adversely affected. 5 if we are unable to manage our inventory effectively, our gross margins could be adversely affected. fluctuations in the global apparel retail markets impact the levels of inventory owned by apparel retailers. the nature of the global apparel retail business requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory, especially prior to the peak holiday selling season when we build up our inventory levels. merchandise usually must be ordered well in advance of the season and frequently before apparel trends are confirmed by customer purchases. we must enter into contracts for the purchase and manufacture of merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season. as a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to suboptimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. in the past, we have not always predicted our customers' preferences and acceptance levels of our trend items with accuracy. if sales do not meet expectations, too much inventory may cause excessive markdowns and, therefore, lower than planned margins. we have key strategic initiatives designed to optimize our inventory levels and increase the efficiency and responsiveness of our supply chain, including vendor fabric platforming, product demand testing, and in-season rapid response to demand. these initiatives involve significant systems and operational changes and we have limited experience operating in this manner. if we are unable to implement these initiatives successfully, we may not realize the return on our investments that we anticipate, and our operating results could be adversely affected. the failure to attract and retain key personnel, or effectively manage succession, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to changing apparel trends depends in part on our ability to attract and retain key personnel in our design, merchandising, marketing, and other functions. in addition, several of our strategic initiatives, including our technology initiatives and supply chain initiatives require that we hire and/or develop employees with appropriate experience. competition for this personnel is intense, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel in future periods. if we are unable to retain, attract, and motivate talented employees with the appropriate skill sets, or if changes to our organizational structure, operating results, or business model adversely affect morale or retention, we may not achieve our objectives and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. in addition, the loss of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to effectively identify a suitable successor to a key role could have a material adverse effect on our business. at the end of fiscal 2014 and beginning of fiscal 2015, there were several changes made to our senior leadership team, including our chief executive officer; global president, gap; and global president, banana republic. in october 2015, our global president, old navy left the company, and a search for a new global brand president is underway. the effectiveness of the new leaders in these roles, and any further transition as a result of these changes, could have a significant impact on our results of operations. we are subject to data security risks, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and consumer confidence in our security measures. as part of our normal operations, we receive and maintain confidential, proprietary, and personally identifiable information, including credit card information, about our customers, our employees, job applicants, and other third parties. our business employs systems and websites that allow for the secure storage and transmission of this information. however, despite our safeguards and security processes and protections, security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation, and potential liability. the retail industry, in particular, has been the target of many recent cyber-attacks. we may not have the resources to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks. attacks may be targeted at us, our customers, or others who have entrusted us with information. in addition, even if we take appropriate measures to safeguard our information security and privacy environment from security breaches, we could still expose our customers and our business to risk. actual or anticipated attacks may disrupt or impair our technology capabilities, and may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third-party experts and consultants. advances in computer capabilities, new technological discoveries, or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect transaction or other data being breached or compromised. measures we implement to protect against cyber-attacks may also have the potential to impact our customers' shopping experience or decrease activity on our websites by making them more difficult to use. data and security breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues, including intentional or inadvertent breach by our employees or by persons with whom we have commercial relationships that result in the 6 unauthorized release of personal or confidential information. in addition, the regulatory environment surrounding information security, cybersecurity, and privacy is increasingly demanding, with new and changing requirements, and customers have a high expectation that the company will adequately protect their personal information from cyber-attack or other security breaches. security breaches and cyber incidents could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, and a loss of consumer confidence in our security measures, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation. our efforts to expand internationally may not be successful. our current strategies include pursuing continued international expansion in a number of countries around the world through a number of channels. we currently plan to open additional old navy stores outside of the united states, including in mexico, japan, and china, open additional gap stores in china, open additional international outlet stores, and continue to grow online sales internationally. our franchisees plan to open additional stores internationally. we have limited experience operating or franchising in some of these locations. in many of these locations, we face major, established competitors. in addition, in many of these locations, the real estate, employment and labor, transportation and logistics, regulatory, and other operating requirements differ dramatically from those in the places where we have more experience. consumer tastes and trends may differ in many of these locations and, as a result, the sales of our products may not be successful or result in the margins we anticipate. if our international expansion plans are unsuccessful or do not deliver an appropriate return on our investments, our operations and financial results could be materially, adversely affected. our business is exposed to the risks of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and our hedging strategies may not be effective in mitigating those risks. we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to our sales, inventory purchases, operating expenses, profits, assets, and liabilities generated or incurred outside the u.s. although we use financial instruments to hedge certain foreign currency risks, these measures may not succeed in fully offsetting the negative impact of foreign currency rate movements and generally only delay the impact of adverse foreign currency rate movements on our business and financial results. for example, in fiscal year 2015, foreign exchange fluctuations, in particular the depreciation of the currencies in canada and japan where we have significant retail operations, had a significant impact on our financial results. we expect this impact to continue in fiscal year 2016. our business, including our costs and supply chain, is subject to risks associated with global sourcing and manufacturing. independent third parties manufacture all of our products for us. as a result, we are directly impacted by increases in the cost of those products . if we experience significant increases in demand or need to replace an existing vendor, there can be no assurance that additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us or that any vendor would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. in addition, for any new manufacturing source, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train our vendors in our methods, products, quality control standards, and environmental, labor, health, and safety standards. moreover, in the event of a significant disruption in the supply of the fabrics or raw materials used by our vendors in the manufacture of our products, our vendors might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price. any delays, interruption, or increased costs in the manufacture of our products could result in lower sales and net income. in addition, certain countries represent a larger portion of our global sourcing. for example, approximately 24 percent of our merchandise, by dollar value, is purchased from factories in china. accordingly, any delays in production and added costs in china could have a more significant impact on our results of operations. because independent vendors manufacture virtually all of our products outside of our principal sales markets, third parties must transport our products over large geographic distances. delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion, or other factors, and costs and delays associated with transitioning between vendors, could adversely impact our 7 financial performance. for example, the work slowdowns and stoppages at u.s. west coast ports at the end of fiscal 2014 and beginning of fiscal 2015 created product delivery delays that impacted our ability to effectively manage our inventory and deliver seasonally correct product in a timely manner, which impacted our financial results for fiscal 2015. manufacturing delays, transportation delays, or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as aircraft, which could adversely affect our gross margins. in addition, the cost of fuel is a significant component in transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our gross margins. risks associated with importing merchandise from foreign countries, including failure of our vendors to adhere to our code of vendor conduct, could harm our business. we purchase nearly all merchandise from third-party vendors in many different countries and we require those vendors to adhere to a code of vendor conduct, which includes environmental, labor, health, and safety standards. from time to time, contractors or their subcontractors may not be in compliance with these standards or applicable local laws. although we have implemented policies and procedures to facilitate our compliance with laws and regulations relating to doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise into various countries, there can be no assurance that suppliers and other third parties with whom we do business will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies. significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more vendors could have a negative impact on our reputation, could subject us to liability, and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. trade matters may disrupt our supply chain. trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, safeguards, and customs restrictions against apparel items, as well as u.s. or foreign labor strikes, work stoppages, or boycotts, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of apparel available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we cannot predict whether any of the countries in which our merchandise currently is manufactured or may be manufactured in the future will be subject to additional trade restrictions imposed by the united states or other foreign governments, including the likelihood, type, or effect of any such restrictions. in addition, we face the possibility of anti-dumping or countervailing duties lawsuits from u.s. domestic producers. we are unable to determine the impact of the changes to the quota system or the impact that potential tariff lawsuits could have on our global sourcing operations. our sourcing operations may be adversely affected by trade limits or political and financial instability, resulting in the disruption of trade from exporting countries, significant fluctuation in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies, restrictions on the transfer of funds, and/or other trade disruptions. our franchise business is subject to certain risks not directly within our control that could impair the value of our brands. we enter into franchise agreements with unaffiliated franchisees to operate stores and, in limited circumstances, websites, in many countries around the world. under these agreements, third parties operate, or will operate, stores and websites that sell apparel and related products under our brand names. the effect of these arrangements on our business and results of operations is uncertain and will depend upon various factors, including the demand for our products in new markets internationally and our ability to successfully identify appropriate third parties to act as franchisees, distributors, or in a similar capacity. in addition, certain aspects of these arrangements are not directly within our control, such as franchisee financial stability and the ability of these third parties to meet their projections regarding store locations, store openings, and sales. other risks that may affect these third parties include general economic conditions in specific countries or markets, foreign exchange rates, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, restrictions on the transfer of funds, and political instability. moreover, while the agreements we have entered into and plan to enter into in the future provide us with certain termination rights, the value of our brands could be impaired to the extent that these third parties do not operate their stores in a manner consistent with our requirements regarding our brand identities and customer experience standards. failure to protect the value of our brands, or any other harmful acts or omissions by a franchisee, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation. 8 the market for prime real estate is competitive. our ability to effectively obtain real estate - to open new stores, distribution centers, and corporate offices nationally and internationally - depends on the availability of real estate that meets our criteria for traffic, square footage, co-tenancies, lease economics, demographics, and other factors. we also must be able to effectively renew our existing store leases. in addition, from time to time, we may seek to downsize, consolidate, reposition, relocate, or close some of our real estate locations, which in most cases requires a modification of an existing store lease. failure to secure adequate new locations or successfully modify existing locations, or failure to effectively manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, the economic environment may at times make it difficult to determine the fair market rent of real estate properties within the united states and internationally. this could impact the quality of our decisions to exercise lease options at previously negotiated rents and the quality of our decisions to renew expiring leases at negotiated rents. any adverse effect on the quality of these decisions could impact our ability to retain real estate locations adequate to meet our targets or efficiently manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our investments in omni-channel shopping initiatives may not deliver the results we anticipate. one of our strategic priorities is to further develop an omni-channel shopping experience for our customers through the integration of our store and digital shopping channels. examples of our recent omni-channel initiatives include our ship-from-store, reserve-in-store, and order-in-store programs. we continue to explore additional ways to develop an omni-channel shopping experience, including further digital integration and customer personalization. these initiatives involve significant investments in it systems and significant operational changes. in addition, our competitors are also investing in omni-channel initiatives, some of which may be more successful than our initiatives . if the implementation of our omni-channel initiatives is not successful, or we do not realize the return on our omni-channel investments that we anticipate, our operating results would be adversely affected. we experience fluctuations in our comparable sales and margins. our success depends in part on our ability to improve sales, in particular at our largest brands. a variety of factors affect comparable sales or margins, including apparel trends, competition, current economic conditions, the timing of new merchandise releases and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, the success of marketing programs, foreign currency fluctuations, and weather conditions. these factors may cause our comparable sales results to differ materially from prior periods and from expectations. our comparable sales, including the associated comparable online sales, have fluctuated significantly in the past on an annual, quarterly, and monthly basis. over the past fiscal year, our reported quarterly comparable sales have ranged from a high of negative 2 percent in the second and third quarters of fiscal 2015 to a low of negative 7 percent in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015. over the past five years, our reported gross margins have ranged from a high of 39.4 percent in fiscal 2012 to a low of 36.2 percent in fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2011. in addition, over the past five years, our reported operating margins have ranged from a high of 13.3 percent in fiscal 2013 to a low of 9.6 percent in fiscal 2015. our ability to deliver strong comparable sales results and margins depends in large part on accurately forecasting demand and apparel trends, selecting effective marketing techniques, providing an appropriate mix of merchandise for our broad and diverse customer base, managing inventory effectively, using effective pricing strategies, and optimizing store performance. failure to meet the expectations of investors, securities analysts, or credit rating agencies in one or more future periods could reduce the market price of our common stock and cause our credit ratings to decline. 9 changes in our credit profile or deterioration in market conditions may limit our access to the capital markets and adversely impact our financial results or our business initiatives. in april 2011, we issued $ 1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.95 percent notes due april 2021 . as a result, we have additional costs that include interest payable semiannually on the notes. in january 2014, we also entered into a 15 billion japanese yen, four-year, unsecured term loan due january 2018. in october 2015, we entered into a $400 million unsecured term loan due october 2016, but that may be extended until october 2017. our cash flows from operations are the primary source of funds for these debt service payments. in this regard, we have generated annual cash flow from operating activities in excess of $1 billion per year for well over a decade and ended fiscal 2015 with $1.4 billion of cash and cash equivalents on our balance sheet. we are also able to supplement near-term liquidity, if necessary, with our $ 500 million revolving credit facility. we continue to target a cash balance between $1.0 billion to $1.2 billion, which provides not only for our working capital needs, but also a reserve for unexpected business downturns. however, if our cash flows from operating activities decline significantly, we may be required to reprioritize our business initiatives to ensure that we can continue to service or refinance our debt with favorable rates and terms. in addition, any future reduction in our long-term senior unsecured credit ratings could result in reduced access to the credit and capital markets and higher interest costs, and potentially increased lease or hedging costs. for further information on our debt and credit facilities, see part ii, item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, notes 4 and 5 of notes to consolidated financial statements of this form 10-k. updates or changes to our it systems may disrupt operations. we continue to evaluate and implement upgrades and changes to our it systems, some of which are significant. upgrades involve replacing existing systems with successor systems, making changes to existing systems, or cost-effectively acquiring new systems with new functionality. we are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing these systems, including accurately capturing data and system disruptions, and believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through testing, training, and staging implementation, as well as ensuring appropriate commercial contracts are in place with third-party vendors supplying or supporting our it initiatives. however, there can be no assurances that we will successfully launch these systems as planned or that they will be implemented without disruptions to our operations. it system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, or failure to successfully implement new or upgraded systems, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. failure to maintain our reputation and brand image could negatively impact our results of operations. our brands have wide recognition, and our success has been due in large part to our ability to maintain, enhance and protect our brand image and reputation, and our customers' connection to our brands. our continued success depends in part on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. even if we react appropriately to negative posts or comments about us and/or our brands on social media and online, our customers' perception of our brand image and our reputation could be negatively impacted. failure to maintain, enhance and protect our brand image could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 10 our results could be adversely affected by natural disasters, public health crises, political crises, or other catastrophic events. natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, earthquakes, and other adverse weather and climate conditions; unforeseen public health crises, such as pandemics and epidemics; political crises, such as terrorist attacks, war, labor unrest, and other political instability; or other catastrophic events, such as disasters occurring at our vendors' manufacturing facilities, whether occurring in the united states or internationally, could disrupt our operations, the operations of our franchisees, or the operations of one or more of our vendors. in particular, these types of events could impact our product supply chain from or to the impacted region and could impact our ability or the ability of our franchisees or other third parties to operate our stores or websites. in addition, these types of events could negatively impact consumer spending in the impacted regions or depending upon the severity, globally. disasters occurring at our vendors ' manufacturing facilities could impact our reputation and our customers ' perception of our brands. to the extent any of these events occur, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. changes in the regulatory or administrative landscape could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. laws and regulations at the local, state, federal, and international levels frequently change, and the ultimate cost of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. in addition, we cannot predict the impact that may result from changes in the regulatory or administrative landscape. any changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations, or the enactment of any new or more stringent legislation that impacts employment and labor, trade, product safety, transportation and logistics, health care, tax, privacy, operations, or environmental issues, among others, could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to various proceedings, lawsuits, disputes, and claims from time to time, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. as a multinational company, we are subject to various proceedings, lawsuits, disputes, and claims ( actions ) arising in the ordinary course of our business. many of these actions raise complex factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties. actions filed against us from time to time include commercial, intellectual property, customer, employment, and data privacy claims, including class action lawsuits. the plaintiffs in some actions seek unspecified damages or injunctive relief, or both. actions are in various procedural stages and some are covered in part by insurance. we cannot predict with assurance the outcome of actions brought against us. accordingly, developments, settlements, or resolutions may occur and impact income in the quarter of such development, settlement, or resolution. an unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 31 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. derivative financial instruments certain financial information about the company's derivative financial instruments is set forth under the heading "derivative financial instruments" in note 7 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k. we have performed a sensitivity analysis as of january 30, 2016 based on a model that measures the impact of a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates to u.s. dollars (with all other variables held constant) on our underlying estimated major foreign currency exposures, net of derivative financial instruments. the foreign currency exchange rates used in the model were based on the spot rates in effect as of january 30, 2016 . the sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10 percent adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would have an unfavorable impact on the underlying cash flow exposure, net of our foreign exchange derivative financial instruments, of $43 million as of january 30, 2016 . debt certain financial information about the company's debt is set forth under the heading "debt" in note 4 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k. our $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.95 percent notes due april 2021 are not subject to interest rate risk as they have a fixed interest rate. the $400 million term loan matures and is payable in full on october 15, 2016, but may be extended until october 15, 2017. interest is payable at least quarterly based on an interest rate equal to the london interbank offered rate plus a fixed margin. the average interest rate for fiscal 2015 was 1 percent. due to the short-term nature of the loan, we believe we have no material exposure to interest rate risk. our interest rate associated with a 15 billion japanese yen, four-year, unsecured term loan as of january 30, 2016 is as follows: expected maturity date (fiscal year) ( in billions) 2016 2017 total fair value (1) principal payments 2.5 7.5 10 10 average interest rate (2) 1 % 1 % 1 % __________ (1) the carrying amount of the japan term loan approximates its fair value as the interest rate varies depending on market rates. (2) the average interest rate for all periods presented was calculated based on the tokyo interbank offered rate plus a fixed margin as of january 30, 2016 . as the interest rate for the term loan is variable, it is subject to change for all periods presented. cash equivalents we have highly liquid fixed and variable income investments classified as cash equivalents, which are placed primarily in time deposits and money market funds. these investments are classified as held-to-maturity based on our positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity. we value these investments at their original purchase prices plus interest that has accrued at the stated rate. the value of our investments is not subject to material interest rate risk. however, changes in interest rates would impact the interest income derived from our investments. we earned interest income of $6 million in fiscal 2015 . 31risk factors 5 risk factors. our past performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance because actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to the risks and uncertainties discussed below. in addition, historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. we must successfully gauge apparel trends and changing consumer preferences to succeed. our success is largely dependent upon our ability to gauge the tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand in a timely manner. however, lead times for many of our design and purchasing decisions may make it more difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing apparel trends or consumer acceptance of our products. the global apparel retail business fluctuates according to changes in consumer preferences, dictated in part by apparel trends and season. to the extent we misjudge the market for our merchandise or the products suitable for local markets or fail to execute trends and deliver product to market as timely as our competitors, our sales will be adversely affected, and the markdowns required to move the resulting excess inventory will adversely affect our operating results. our business is highly competitive. the global apparel retail industry is highly competitive. we and our franchisees compete with local, national, and global department stores, specialty and discount store chains, independent retail stores, and online businesses that market similar lines of merchandise. we face a variety of competitive challenges including: anticipating and quickly responding to changing apparel trends and customer demands; attracting customer traffic both in stores and online; competitively pricing our products and achieving customer perception of value; maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to customers in several diverse market segments and geographic locations; anticipating and responding to changing customer shopping preferences and practices, including the increasing shift to digital brand engagement, social media communication, and online shopping; developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors, and styles that appeal to customers of varying age groups and tastes; purchasing and stocking merchandise to match seasonal weather patterns, and our ability to react to shifts in weather that impact consumer demand; and sourcing and allocating merchandise efficiently. if we or our franchisees are not able to compete successfully in the united states or internationally, our results of operations would be adversely affected. we must maintain our reputation and brand image. our brands have wide recognition, and our success has been due in large part to our ability to maintain, enhance and protect our brand image and reputation and our customers' connection to our brands. our continued success depends in part on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. even if we react appropriately to negative posts or comments about us and/or our brands on social media and online, our customers' perception of our brand image and our reputation could be negatively impacted. failure to maintain, enhance and protect our brand image could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 5 the failure to attract and retain key personnel, or effectively manage succession, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to changing apparel trends depends in part on our ability to attract and retain key personnel in our design, merchandising, sourcing, marketing, and other functions. in addition, several of our strategic initiatives, including our technology initiatives and supply chain initiatives, require that we hire and/or develop employees with appropriate experience. competition for talent is intense, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel in future periods. if we are unable to retain, attract, and motivate talented employees with the appropriate skill sets, or if changes to our organizational structure, operating results, or business model adversely affect morale or retention, we may not achieve our objectives and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. in addition, the loss of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to effectively identify a suitable successor to a key role could have a material adverse effect on our business. in fiscal 2016, there were changes to our senior leadership team, including our new chief customer officer and our new chief financial officer. in addition, in march 2017, we announced the appointment of the new president and chief executive officer of banana republic who will be joining the company in may 2017. the effectiveness of the new leaders in these roles, and any further transition as a result of these changes, could have a significant impact on our results of operations. trade matters may disrupt our supply chain. trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, safeguards, and customs restrictions against apparel items, as well as u.s. or foreign labor strikes, work stoppages, or boycotts, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of apparel available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we cannot predict whether any of the countries in which our merchandise currently is manufactured or may be manufactured in the future will be subject to additional trade restrictions imposed by the united states or other foreign governments, including the likelihood, type, or effect of any such restrictions. for example, the current political landscape has introduced greater uncertainty with respect to future tax and trade regulations. in addition, we face the possibility of anti-dumping or countervailing duties lawsuits from u.s. domestic producers. we are unable to determine the impact of the changes to the quota system or the impact that potential tariff lawsuits could have on our global sourcing operations. our sourcing operations may be adversely affected by trade limits or political and financial instability, resulting in the disruption of trade from exporting countries, significant fluctuation in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies, restrictions on the transfer of funds, and/or other trade disruptions. changes in tax policy or trade regulations, such as the disallowance of tax deductions on imported merchandise or the imposition of new tariffs on imported products, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. changes in the regulatory or administrative landscape could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. laws and regulations at the local, state, federal, and international levels frequently change, and the ultimate cost of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. in addition, we cannot predict the impact that may result from changes in the regulatory or administrative landscape. for example, u.s. lawmakers are evaluating proposals for comprehensive reform of the u.s. federal corporate tax system, which could include a border-adjustment tax or other increased taxes on imports, a limit on the ability to defer u.s. taxation on earnings outside the united states until those earnings are repatriated to the united states, and a lower u.s. federal tax rate. these proposed changes to the federal tax law, if enacted as currently proposed, could have a material adverse effect to our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. any changes in laws or regulations, the imposition of additional laws or regulations, or the enactment of any new or more stringent legislation that impacts employment and labor, trade, product safety, transportation and logistics, health care, tax, privacy, operations, or environmental issues, among others, could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 6 our investments in omni-channel shopping initiatives may not deliver the results we anticipate. one of our strategic priorities is to further develop an omni-channel shopping experience for our customers through the integration of our store and digital shopping channels. an example of our recent omni-channel initiatives includes cross-channel logistics optimization. we continue to explore additional ways to develop an omni-channel shopping experience, including further digital integration and customer personalization. these initiatives involve significant investments in it systems and significant operational changes. in addition, our competitors are also investing in omni-channel initiatives, some of which may be more successful than our initiatives . if the implementation of our omni-channel initiatives is not successful, or we do not realize the return on our omni-channel investments that we anticipate, our operating results would be adversely affected. if we are unable to manage our inventory effectively, our gross margins could be adversely affected. fluctuations in the global apparel retail markets impact the levels of inventory owned by apparel retailers. the nature of the global apparel retail business requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory, especially prior to the peak holiday selling season when we build up our inventory levels. merchandise usually must be ordered well in advance of the season and frequently before apparel trends are confirmed by customer purchases. we must enter into contracts for the purchase and manufacture of merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season. as a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to suboptimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. in the past, we have not always predicted our customers' preferences and acceptance levels of our trend items with accuracy. if sales do not meet expectations, too much inventory may cause excessive markdowns and, therefore, lower-than-planned margins. we have key strategic initiatives designed to optimize our inventory levels and increase the efficiency and responsiveness of our supply chain, including vendor fabric platforming, product demand testing, and in-season rapid response to demand. these initiatives involve significant systems and operational changes, and we have limited experience operating in this manner. if we are unable to implement these initiatives successfully, we may not realize the return on our investments that we anticipate, and our operating results could be adversely affected. we are subject to data security risks, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and consumer confidence in our security measures. as part of our normal operations, we receive and maintain confidential, proprietary, and personally identifiable information, including credit card information, and information about our customers, our employees, job applicants, and other third parties. our business employs systems and websites that allow for the secure storage and transmission of this information. however, despite our safeguards and security processes and protections, security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation, and potential liability. the retail industry, in particular, has been the target of many recent cyber-attacks. we may not have the resources to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks. attacks may be targeted at us, our vendors or customers, or others who have entrusted us with information. in addition, even if we take appropriate measures to safeguard our information security and privacy environment from security breaches, we could still expose our customers and our business to risk. actual or anticipated attacks may disrupt or impair our technology capabilities, and may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third-party experts and consultants. advances in computer capabilities, new technological discoveries, or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect transaction or other data being breached or compromised. measures we implement to protect against cyber attacks may also have the potential to impact our customers' shopping experience or decrease activity on our websites by making them more difficult to use. data and security breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues, including intentional or inadvertent breach by our employees or by persons with whom we have commercial relationships that result in the unauthorized release of personal or confidential information. in addition, the regulatory environment surrounding information security, cybersecurity, and privacy is increasingly demanding, with new and changing requirements, and customers have a high expectation that the company will adequately protect their personal information from cyber-attack or other security breaches. security breaches and cyber incidents could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial 7 exposure, and a loss of consumer confidence in our security measures, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation. our business is exposed to the risks of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and our hedging strategies may not be effective in mitigating those risks. we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to our sales, operating expenses, profits, assets, and liabilities generated or incurred in foreign currencies as well as inventory purchases in u.s. dollars for our foreign subsidiaries. although we use financial instruments to hedge certain foreign currency risks, these measures may not succeed in fully offsetting the negative impact of foreign currency rate movements and generally only delay the impact of adverse foreign currency rate movements on our business and financial results. we expect a negative impact to continue in fiscal year 2017. our business is subject to risks associated with global sourcing and manufacturing. independent third parties manufacture all of our products for us. as a result, we are directly impacted by increases in the cost of those products . if we experience significant increases in demand or need to replace an existing vendor, there can be no assurance that additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us or that any vendor would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. in addition, for any new manufacturing source, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train our vendors in our methods, products, quality control standards, and environmental, labor, health, and safety standards. moreover, in the event of a significant disruption in the supply of the fabrics or raw materials used by our vendors in the manufacture of our products, our vendors might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price. any delays, interruption, or increased costs in the manufacture of our products could result in lower sales and net income. in addition, certain countries represent a larger portion of our global sourcing. for example, approximately 25 percent and 23 percent of our merchandise, by dollar value, is purchased from factories in vietnam and china, respectively. accordingly, any delays in production and added costs in vietnam or china could have a more significant impact on our results of operations. because independent vendors manufacture virtually all of our products outside of our principal sales markets, third parties must transport our products over large geographic distances. delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion, or other factors, and costs and delays associated with transitioning between vendors, could adversely impact our financial performance. manufacturing delays, transportation delays, or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as aircraft, which could adversely affect our gross margins. in addition, the cost of fuel is a significant component of transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our gross margins. global economic conditions and any related impact on consumer spending patterns could adversely impact our results of operations. the company's performance is subject to global economic conditions, as well as their impact on levels of consumer spending worldwide. some of the factors that may influence consumer spending include high levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, reductions in net worth based on market declines and uncertainty, home foreclosures and reductions in home values, fluctuating interest and foreign currency rates and credit availability, government austerity measures, fluctuating fuel and other energy costs, fluctuating commodity prices, and general uncertainty regarding the overall future economic environment. consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, generally decline during periods when disposable income is adversely affected or there is economic uncertainty. 8 adverse economic changes in any of the regions in which we and our franchisees sell our products could reduce consumer confidence, and thereby could negatively affect earnings and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in challenging and uncertain economic environments, we cannot predict whether or when such circumstances may improve or worsen, or what impact, if any, such circumstances could have on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. our efforts to expand internationally may not be successful. our current strategies include pursuing selective international expansion in a number of countries around the world through a number of channels. we currently plan to open additional old navy stores outside of the united states, including in mexico and china, open additional gap stores in china, including outlet stores, and continue to grow online sales internationally. our franchisees plan to open additional stores internationally. we have limited experience operating or franchising in some of these locations. in many of these locations, we face major, established competitors. in addition, in many of these locations, the real estate, employment and labor, transportation and logistics, regulatory, and other operating requirements differ dramatically from those in the places where we have more experience. consumer tastes and trends may differ in many of these locations and, as a result, the sales of our products may not be successful or result in the margins we anticipate. if our international expansion plans are unsuccessful or do not deliver an appropriate return on our investments, our operations and financial results could be materially, adversely affected. risks associated with importing merchandise from foreign countries, including failure of our vendors to adhere to our code of vendor conduct, could harm our business. we purchase nearly all merchandise from third-party vendors in many different countries, and we require those vendors to adhere to a code of vendor conduct, which includes environmental, labor, health, and safety standards. from time to time, contractors or their subcontractors may not be in compliance with these standards or applicable local laws. although we have implemented policies and procedures to facilitate our compliance with laws and regulations relating to doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise into various countries, there can be no assurance that suppliers and other third parties with whom we do business will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies. significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more vendors could have a negative impact on our reputation, could subject us to liability, and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our franchise business is subject to certain risks not directly within our control that could impair the value of our brands. we enter into franchise agreements with unaffiliated franchisees to operate stores and, in limited circumstances, websites, in many countries around the world. under these agreements, third parties operate, or will operate, stores and websites that sell apparel and related products under our brand names. the effect of these arrangements on our business and results of operations is uncertain and will depend upon various factors, including the demand for our products in new markets internationally and our ability to successfully identify appropriate third parties to act as franchisees, distributors, or in a similar capacity. in addition, certain aspects of these arrangements are not directly within our control, such as franchisee financial stability and the ability of these third parties to meet their projections regarding store locations, store openings, and sales. other risks that may affect these third parties include general economic conditions in specific countries or markets, foreign exchange rates, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, restrictions on the transfer of funds, and political instability. moreover, while the agreements we have entered into and plan to enter into in the future provide us with certain termination rights, the value of our brands could be impaired to the extent that these third parties do not operate their stores in a manner consistent with our requirements regarding our brand identities and customer experience standards. failure to protect the value of our brands, or any other harmful acts or omissions by a franchisee, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation. 9 the market for prime real estate is competitive. our ability to effectively obtain real estate - to open new stores, distribution centers, and corporate offices nationally and internationally - depends on the availability of real estate that meets our criteria for traffic, square footage, co-tenancies, lease economics, demographics, and other factors. we also must be able to effectively renew our existing store leases. in addition, we may seek to downsize, consolidate, reposition, relocate, or close some of our real estate locations, which in most cases requires a modification of an existing store lease. failure to secure adequate new locations or successfully modify existing locations, or failure to effectively manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, the economic environment may at times make it difficult to determine the fair market rent of real estate properties within the united states and internationally. this could impact the quality of our decisions to exercise lease options at previously negotiated rents and the quality of our decisions to renew expiring leases at negotiated rents. any adverse effect on the quality of these decisions could impact our ability to retain real estate locations adequate to meet our targets or efficiently manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we experience fluctuations in our comparable sales and margins. our success depends in part on our ability to improve sales, in particular at our largest brands. a variety of factors affect comparable sales or margins, including apparel trends, competition, current economic conditions, the timing of new merchandise releases and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, the success of marketing programs, foreign currency fluctuations, industry traffic trends, and weather conditions. these factors may cause our comparable sales results and margins to differ materially from prior periods and from expectations. our comparable sales, including the associated comparable online sales, have fluctuated significantly in the past on an annual, quarterly, and monthly basis. over the past fiscal year, our reported quarterly comparable sales have ranged from a high of positive 2 percent in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 to a low of negative 5 percent in the first quarter of fiscal 2016 . over the past five years, our reported gross margins have ranged from a high of 39.4 percent in fiscal 2012 to a low of 36.2 percent in fiscal 2015. in addition, over the past five years, our reported operating margins have ranged from a high of 13.3 percent in fiscal 2013 to a low of 7.7 percent in fiscal 2016. our ability to deliver strong comparable sales results and margins depends in large part on accurately forecasting demand and apparel trends, selecting effective marketing techniques, providing an appropriate mix of merchandise for our broad and diverse customer base, managing inventory effectively, using effective pricing strategies, and optimizing store performance. failure to meet the expectations of investors, securities analysts, or credit rating agencies in one or more future periods could reduce the market price of our common stock, cause our credit ratings to decline, and impact liquidity. changes in our credit profile or deterioration in market conditions may limit our access to the capital markets and adversely impact our financial position or our business initiatives. in april 2011, we issued $ 1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.95 percent notes due april 2021 . as a result, we have additional costs that include interest payable semi-annually on the notes. in january 2014, we also entered into a 15 billion japanese yen, four-year, unsecured term loan due january 2018. our cash flows from operations are the primary source of funds for these debt service payments. in this regard, we have generated annual cash flow from operating activities in excess of $1 billion per year for well over a decade and ended fiscal 2016 with $1.8 billion of cash and cash equivalents on our balance sheet. we are also able to supplement near-term liquidity, if necessary, with our $ 500 million revolving credit facility. we continue to target a cash balance between $1.0 billion to $1.2 billion, which provides not only for our working capital needs, but also a reserve for unexpected business downturns. however, if our cash flows from operating activities decline significantly, we may be required to reprioritize our business initiatives to ensure that we can continue to service or refinance our debt with favorable rates and terms. in addition, any future reduction in our long-term senior unsecured credit ratings could result in reduced access to the credit and capital markets and higher interest costs and potentially increased lease or hedging costs. 10 in may 2016, fitch ratings and standard &amp; poor's rating services downgraded their respective credit ratings of us from bbb- negative outlook to bb+ stable outlook. these downgrades, and any future reduction in our long-term senior unsecured credit ratings, could result in reduced access to the credit and capital markets, more restrictive covenants in future financial documents and higher interest costs, and potentially increased lease or hedging costs. for further information on our debt and credit facilities, see item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, notes 5 and 6 of notes to consolidated financial statements of this form 10-k. updates or changes to our it systems may disrupt operations. we continue to evaluate and implement upgrades and changes to our it systems, some of which are significant. upgrades involve replacing existing systems with successor systems, making changes to existing systems, or cost-effectively acquiring new systems with new functionality. we are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing these systems, including accurately capturing data and system disruptions and believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through testing, training, and staging implementation, as well as ensuring appropriate commercial contracts are in place with third-party vendors supplying or supporting our it initiatives. however, there can be no assurances that we will successfully launch these systems as planned or that they will be implemented without disruptions to our operations. it system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, or failure to successfully implement new or upgraded systems, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our results could be adversely affected by natural disasters, public health crises, political crises, or other catastrophic events. natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, earthquakes, and other adverse weather and climate conditions; unforeseen public health crises, such as pandemics and epidemics; political crises, such as terrorist attacks, war, labor unrest, and other political instability; or other catastrophic events, such as fires or other disasters occurring at our distribution centers or our vendors' manufacturing facilities, whether occurring in the united states or internationally, could disrupt our operations, including the operations of our franchisees, or the operations of one or more of our vendors. in particular, these types of events could impact our supply chain from or to the impacted region and could impact our ability or the ability of our franchisees or other third parties to operate our stores or websites. in addition, these types of events could negatively impact consumer spending in the impacted regions or, depending upon the severity, globally. disasters occurring at our vendors ' manufacturing facilities could impact our reputation and our customers ' perception of our brands. to the extent any of these events occur, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. reductions in income and cash flow from our marketing and servicing arrangement related to our private label and co-branded credit cards could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. a third-party, synchrony financial ( synchrony ), owns and services our private label credit card and co-branded programs. our agreement with synchrony provides for certain payments to be made by synchrony to us, including a share of revenues from the performance of the credit card portfolios. the income and cash flow that we receive from synchrony is dependent upon a number of factors, including the level of sales on private label and co-branded accounts, the level of balances carried on the accounts, payment rates on the accounts, finance charge rates and other fees on the accounts, the level of credit losses for the accounts, synchrony's ability to extend credit to our customers as well as the cost of customer rewards programs. all of these factors can vary based on changes in federal and state credit card, banking, and commercial protection laws. the factors affecting the income and cash flow that the company receives from synchrony can also vary based on a variety of economic, legal, social, and other factors that we cannot control. if the income and cash flow that we receive from our consumer credit card program agreement with synchrony decreases significantly, our operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected . 11 we are subject to various proceedings, lawsuits, disputes, and claims from time to time, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. as a multinational company, we are subject to various proceedings, lawsuits, disputes, and claims ( actions ) arising in the ordinary course of our business. many of these actions raise complex factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties. actions filed against us from time to time include commercial, intellectual property, customer, employment, and data privacy claims, including class action lawsuits. the plaintiffs in some actions seek unspecified damages or injunctive relief, or both. actions are in various procedural stages and some are covered in part by insurance. we cannot predict with assurance the outcome of actions brought against us. accordingly, developments, settlements, or resolutions may occur and impact income in the quarter of such development, settlement, or resolution. an unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 31 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. derivative financial instruments certain financial information about the company's derivative financial instruments is set forth under the heading "derivative financial instruments" in note 8 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this form 10-k. we have performed a sensitivity analysis as of january 28, 2017 based on a model that measures the impact of a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates to u.s. dollars (with all other variables held constant) on our underlying estimated major foreign currency exposures, net of derivative financial instruments. the foreign currency exchange rates used in the model were based on the spot rates in effect as of january 28, 2017 . the sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10 percent adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would have an unfavorable impact on the underlying cash flow, net of our foreign exchange derivative financial instruments, of $35 million as of january 28, 2017 . debt certain financial information about the company's debt is set forth under the heading "debt" in note 5 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this form 10-k. our $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.95 percent notes due april 2021 are not subject to interest rate risk as they have a fixed interest rate. a final repayment of 7.5 billion japanese yen ( $65 million as of january 28, 2017 ) for the 15 billion japanese yen, four-year, unsecured japan term loan is payable on january 15, 2018. the average interest rate associated with the japan term loan for fiscal 2016 was 1 percent. due to the maturity of the japan term loan in fiscal 2017, we believe we have no material exposure to interest rate risk. 31 cash equivalents we have highly liquid fixed and variable income investments classified as cash equivalents, which are placed primarily in time deposits, money market funds, and commercial paper. we value these investments at their original purchase prices plus interest that has accrued at the stated rate. the value of our investments is not subject to material interest rate risk. however, changes in interest rates would impact the interest income derived from our investments. we earned interest income of $8 million in fiscal 2016 . 32risk factors 5 risk factors. our past performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance because actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to the risks and uncertainties discussed below. in addition, historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. we must successfully gauge apparel trends and changing consumer preferences to succeed. our success is largely dependent upon our ability to gauge the tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand in a timely manner. however, lead times for many of our design and purchasing decisions may make it more difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing apparel trends or consumer acceptance of our products. the global apparel retail business fluctuates according to changes in consumer preferences, dictated in part by apparel trends and season. to the extent we misjudge the market for our merchandise or the products suitable for local markets or fail to execute trends and deliver product to market as timely as our competitors, our sales will be adversely affected, and the markdowns required to move the resulting excess inventory will adversely affect our operating results. our business is highly competitive. the global apparel retail industry is highly competitive. we and our franchisees compete with local, national, and global department stores, specialty and discount store chains, independent retail stores, and online businesses that market similar lines of merchandise. we face a variety of competitive challenges in an increasingly complex and fast-paced environment, including: anticipating and quickly responding to changing apparel trends and customer demands; attracting customer traffic both in stores and online; competitively pricing our products and achieving customer perception of value; maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to customers in several diverse market segments and geographic locations; anticipating and responding to changing customer shopping preferences and practices, including the increasing shift to digital brand engagement, social media communication, and online shopping; developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors, and styles that appeal to customers of varying age groups and tastes; purchasing and stocking merchandise to match seasonal weather patterns, and our ability to react to shifts in weather that impact consumer demand; sourcing and allocating merchandise efficiently; and improving the effectiveness and efficiency of our processes in order to deliver cost savings to fund growth. if we or our franchisees are not able to compete successfully in the united states or internationally, our results of operations would be adversely affected. we must maintain our reputation and brand image. our brands have wide recognition, and our success has been due in large part to our ability to maintain, enhance and protect our brand image and reputation and our customers' connection to our brands. our continued success depends in part on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. even if we react appropriately to negative posts or comments about us and/or our brands on social media and online, our customers' perception of our brand image and our reputation could be negatively impacted. in addition, customer sentiment could be shaped by our sustainability policies and related design, sourcing and operations decisions. failure to maintain, enhance and protect our brand image could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 5 the failure to attract and retain key personnel, or effectively manage succession, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to changing apparel trends depends in part on our ability to attract and retain key personnel in our design, merchandising, sourcing, marketing, and other functions. in addition, several of our strategic initiatives, including our technology initiatives and supply chain initiatives, require that we hire and/or develop employees with appropriate experience. competition for talent is intense, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel in future periods. if we are unable to retain, attract, and motivate talented employees with the appropriate skill sets, or if changes to our organizational structure, operating results, or business model adversely affect morale or retention, we may not achieve our objectives and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. in addition, the loss of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to effectively identify a suitable successor to a key role could have a material adverse effect on our business. in fiscal 2017, there were changes to our senior leadership team, including our new president and chief executive officer of banana republic, and our new executive vice president and chief people officer. in addition, in february 2018, we announced the departure of our president and chief executive officer of gap brand. the effectiveness of new leaders in these roles, and any further transition as a result of these changes, could have a significant impact on our results of operations. our investments in customer, digital, and omni-channel shopping initiatives may not deliver the results we anticipate. one of our strategic priorities is to further develop an omni-channel shopping experience for our customers through the integration of our store and digital shopping channels. our omni-channel initiatives include cross-channel logistics optimization and exploring additional ways to develop an omni-channel shopping experience, including further digital integration and customer personalization. these initiatives involve significant investments in it systems and significant operational changes. in addition, our competitors are also investing in omni-channel initiatives, some of which may be more successful than our initiatives . if the implementation of our customer, digital, and omni-channel initiatives is not successful, or we do not realize the return on our investments in these initiatives that we anticipate, our operating results would be adversely affected. if we are unable to manage our inventory effectively, our gross margins could be adversely affected. fluctuations in the global apparel retail markets impact the levels of inventory owned by apparel retailers. the nature of the global apparel retail business requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory, especially prior to the peak holiday selling season when we build up our inventory levels. merchandise usually must be ordered well in advance of the season and frequently before apparel trends are confirmed by customer purchases. we must enter into contracts for the purchase and manufacture of merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season. as a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to suboptimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. in the past, we have not always predicted our customers' preferences and acceptance levels of our trend items with accuracy. if sales do not meet expectations, too much inventory may cause excessive markdowns and, therefore, lower-than-planned margins. we have key strategic initiatives designed to optimize our inventory levels and increase the efficiency and responsiveness of our supply chain, including vendor fabric platforming, product demand testing, and in-season rapid response to demand. these initiatives involve significant systems and operational changes, and we have limited experience operating in this manner. if we are unable to implement these initiatives successfully, we may not realize the return on our investments that we anticipate, and our operating results could be adversely affected. 6 we are subject to data and security risks, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and consumer confidence in our security measures. as part of our normal operations, we receive and maintain confidential, proprietary, and personally identifiable information, including credit card information, and information about our customers, our employees, job applicants, and other third parties. our business employs systems and websites that allow for the secure storage and transmission of this information. however, despite our safeguards and security processes and protections, security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation, and potential liability. the retail industry, in particular, has been the target of many recent cyber-attacks. we may not have the resources to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks. attacks may be targeted at us, our vendors or customers, or others who have entrusted us with information. in addition, even if we take appropriate measures to safeguard our information security and privacy environment from security breaches, we could still expose our customers and our business to risk. actual or anticipated attacks may disrupt or impair our technology capabilities, and may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third-party experts and consultants. advances in computer capabilities, new technological discoveries, or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect transaction or other data being breached or compromised. measures we implement to protect against cyber attacks may also have the potential to impact our customers' shopping experience or decrease activity on our websites by making them more difficult to use. data and security breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues, including intentional or inadvertent breach by our employees or by persons with whom we have commercial relationships that result in the unauthorized release of personal or confidential information. in addition, the global regulatory environment surrounding information security, cybersecurity, and privacy is increasingly demanding, with new and changing requirements, such as the european union's general protection regulation (gdpr), and customers have a high expectation that the company will adequately protect their personal information from cyber-attack or other security breaches. security breaches and cyber incidents could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, and a loss of consumer confidence in our security measures, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation. failures of, updates or changes to, our it systems may disrupt operations. we maintain a complex network of legacy systems. we require continual maintenance, upgrades and changes, some of which are significant. upgrades involve replacing existing systems with successor systems, making changes to existing systems, or cost-effectively acquiring new systems with new functionality. we are aware of inherent risks associated with maintaining and replacing these systems, including accurately capturing data and addressing system disruptions and believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through testing, training, and staging implementation, as well as ensuring appropriate commercial contracts are in place with third-party vendors supplying or supporting our it initiatives. however, there can be no assurances that we will successfully maintain or launch these systems as planned or that they will be implemented without disruptions to our operations. it system disruptions or failures, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, or failure to successfully implement new or upgraded systems, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 7 trade matters may disrupt our supply chain. trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, safeguards, and customs restrictions against apparel items, as well as u.s. or foreign labor strikes, work stoppages, or boycotts, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of apparel available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we cannot predict whether any of the countries in which our merchandise currently is manufactured or may be manufactured in the future will be subject to additional trade restrictions imposed by the united states or other foreign governments, including the likelihood, type, or effect of any such restrictions. for example, the current political landscape has introduced greater uncertainty with respect to future tax and trade regulations. in addition, we face the possibility of anti-dumping or countervailing duties lawsuits from u.s. domestic producers. we are unable to determine the impact of the changes to the quota system or the impact that potential tariff lawsuits could have on our global sourcing operations. our sourcing operations may be adversely affected by trade limits or political and financial instability, resulting in the disruption of trade from exporting countries, significant fluctuation in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies, restrictions on the transfer of funds, and/or other trade disruptions. changes in tax policy or trade regulations, such as the imposition of new tariffs on imported products, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. changes in the regulatory or administrative landscape could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. laws and regulations at the local, state, federal, and international levels frequently change, and the ultimate cost of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. in addition, we cannot predict the impact that may result from changes in the regulatory or administrative landscape. any changes in laws or regulations, the imposition of additional laws or regulations, or the enactment of any new or more stringent legislation that impacts employment and labor, trade, product safety, transportation and logistics, health care, tax, privacy, operations, or environmental issues, among others, could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. our business is subject to risks associated with global sourcing and manufacturing. independent third parties manufacture all of our products for us. as a result, we are directly impacted by increases in the cost of those products . if we experience significant increases in demand or need to replace an existing vendor, there can be no assurance that additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us or that any vendor would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. in addition, for any new manufacturing source, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train our vendors in our methods, products, quality control standards, and environmental, labor, health, and safety standards. moreover, in the event of a significant disruption in the supply of the fabrics or raw materials used by our vendors in the manufacture of our products, our vendors might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price. any delays, interruption, or increased costs in the manufacture of our products could result in lower sales and net income. in addition, certain countries represent a larger portion of our global sourcing. for example, approximately 25 percent and 22 percent of our merchandise, by dollar value, is purchased from factories in vietnam and china, respectively. accordingly, any delays in production and added costs in vietnam or china could have a more significant impact on our results of operations. because independent vendors manufacture virtually all of our products outside of our principal sales markets, third parties must transport our products over large geographic distances. delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion, or other factors, and costs and delays associated with transitioning between vendors, could adversely impact our financial performance. operating or manufacturing delays, transportation delays, or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as aircraft, which could adversely affect our gross margins. in addition, the cost of fuel is a significant component of transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our gross margins. 8 global economic conditions and any related impact on consumer spending patterns could adversely impact our results of operations. the company's performance is subject to global economic conditions, as well as their impact on levels of consumer spending worldwide. some of the factors that may influence consumer spending include high levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, reductions in net worth based on market declines and uncertainty, home foreclosures and reductions in home values, fluctuating interest and foreign currency rates and credit availability, government austerity measures, fluctuating fuel and other energy costs, fluctuating commodity prices, and general uncertainty regarding the overall future economic environment. consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, generally decline during periods when disposable income is adversely affected or there is economic uncertainty. adverse economic changes in any of the regions in which we and our franchisees sell our products could reduce consumer confidence, and thereby could negatively affect earnings and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in challenging and uncertain economic environments, we cannot predict whether or when such circumstances may improve or worsen, or what impact, if any, such circumstances could have on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. our efforts to expand internationally may not be successful. our current strategies include pursuing selective international expansion in a number of countries around the world through a number of channels. this includes our franchisees opening additional stores internationally. we have limited experience operating or franchising in some of these locations. in many of these locations, we face major, established competitors. in addition, in many of these locations, the real estate, employment and labor, transportation and logistics, regulatory, and other operating requirements differ dramatically from those in the places where we have more experience. consumer tastes and trends may differ in many of these locations and, as a result, the sales of our products may not be successful or result in the margins we anticipate. if our international expansion plans are unsuccessful or do not deliver an appropriate return on our investments, our operations and financial results could be materially, adversely affected. risks associated with importing merchandise from foreign countries, including failure of our vendors to adhere to our code of vendor conduct, could harm our business. we purchase nearly all merchandise from third-party vendors in many different countries, and we require those vendors to adhere to a code of vendor conduct, which includes environmental, labor, health, and safety standards. from time to time, contractors or their subcontractors may not be in compliance with these standards or applicable local laws. although we have implemented policies and procedures to facilitate our compliance with laws and regulations relating to doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise into various countries, there can be no assurance that suppliers and other third parties with whom we do business will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies. significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more vendors could have a negative impact on our reputation, could subject us to liability, and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 9 our franchise business is subject to certain risks not directly within our control that could impair the value of our brands. we enter into franchise agreements with unaffiliated franchisees to operate stores and, in limited circumstances, websites, in many countries around the world. under these agreements, third parties operate, or will operate, stores and websites that sell apparel and related products under our brand names. the effect of these arrangements on our business and results of operations is uncertain and will depend upon various factors, including the demand for our products in new markets internationally and our ability to successfully identify appropriate third parties to act as franchisees, distributors, or in a similar capacity. in addition, certain aspects of these arrangements are not directly within our control, such as franchisee financial stability and the ability of these third parties to meet their projections regarding store locations, store openings, and sales. other risks that may affect these third parties include general economic conditions in specific countries or markets, foreign exchange rates, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, restrictions on the transfer of funds, and political instability. moreover, while the agreements we have entered into and plan to enter into in the future provide us with certain termination rights, the value of our brands could be impaired to the extent that these third parties do not operate their stores in a manner consistent with our requirements regarding our brand identities and customer experience standards. failure to protect the value of our brands, or any other harmful acts or omissions by a franchisee, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation. the market for prime real estate is competitive. our ability to effectively obtain real estate - to open new stores, distribution centers, and corporate offices nationally and internationally - depends on the availability of real estate that meets our criteria for traffic, square footage, co-tenancies, lease economics, demographics, and other factors. we also must be able to effectively renew our existing store leases. in addition, we may seek to downsize, consolidate, reposition, relocate, or close some of our real estate locations, which in most cases requires a modification of an existing store lease. failure to secure adequate new locations, successfully modify or exit existing locations, or failure to effectively manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, the economic environment may at times make it difficult to determine the fair market rent of real estate properties within the united states and internationally. this could impact the quality of our decisions to exercise lease options at previously negotiated rents and the quality of our decisions to renew expiring leases at negotiated rents. any adverse effect on the quality of these decisions could impact our ability to retain real estate locations adequate to meet our targets or efficiently manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. our business is exposed to the risks of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and our hedging strategies may not be effective in mitigating those risks. we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to our sales, operating expenses, profits, assets, and liabilities generated or incurred in foreign currencies as well as inventory purchases in u.s. dollars for our foreign subsidiaries. although we use financial instruments to hedge certain foreign currency risks, these measures may not succeed in fully offsetting the negative impact of foreign currency rate movements and generally only delay the impact of adverse foreign currency rate movements on our business and financial results. 10 we experience fluctuations in our comparable sales and margins. our success depends in part on our ability to improve sales, in particular at our largest brands. a variety of factors affect comparable sales or margins, including but not limited to apparel trends, competition, current economic conditions, the timing of new merchandise releases and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, the success of marketing programs, foreign currency fluctuations, industry traffic trends, and weather conditions. these factors may cause our comparable sales results and margins to differ materially from prior periods and from expectations. our comparable sales, including the associated comparable online sales, have fluctuated significantly in the past on an annual and quarterly basis. over the past fiscal year, our reported quarterly comparable sales have ranged from a high of positive 5 percent in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017 to a low of positive 1 percent in the second quarter of fiscal 2017 . over the past five years, our reported gross margins have ranged from a high of 39.0 percent in fiscal 2013 to a low of 36.2 percent in fiscal 2015. in addition, over the past five years, our reported operating margins have ranged from a high of 13.3 percent in fiscal 2013 to a low of 7.7 percent in fiscal 2016. our ability to deliver strong comparable sales results and margins depends in large part on accurately forecasting demand and apparel trends, selecting effective marketing techniques, providing an appropriate mix of merchandise for our broad and diverse customer base, managing inventory effectively, using effective pricing strategies, and optimizing store performance. failure to meet the expectations of investors, securities analysts, or credit rating agencies in one or more future periods could reduce the market price of our common stock, cause our credit ratings to decline, and impact liquidity. changes in our credit profile or deterioration in market conditions may limit our access to the capital markets and adversely impact our financial position or our business initiatives. in april 2011, we issued $ 1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.95 percent notes due april 2021 . as a result, we have additional costs that include interest payable semi-annually on the notes. in january 2014, we also entered into a 15 billion japanese yen, four-year, unsecured term loan which was fully repaid in june 2017. our cash flows from operations are the primary source of funds for these debt service payments. in this regard, we have generated annual cash flow from operating activities in excess of $1 billion per year for well over a decade and ended fiscal 2017 with $1.8 billion of cash and cash equivalents on our balance sheet. we are also able to supplement near-term liquidity, if necessary, with our $ 500 million revolving credit facility. we continue to target a cash balance between $1.0 billion to $1.2 billion, which provides not only for our working capital needs, but also a reserve for unexpected business downturns. however, if our cash flows from operating activities decline significantly, we may be required to reprioritize our business initiatives to ensure that we can continue to service or refinance our debt with favorable rates and terms. in addition, any future reduction in our long-term senior unsecured credit ratings could result in reduced access to the credit and capital markets and higher interest costs and potentially increased lease or hedging costs. in may 2016, fitch ratings and standard &amp; poor's rating services downgraded their respective credit ratings of us from bbb- negative outlook to bb+ stable outlook. these downgrades, and any future reduction in our long-term senior unsecured credit ratings, could result in reduced access to the credit and capital markets, more restrictive covenants in future financial documents and higher interest costs, and potentially increased lease or hedging costs. for further information on our debt and credit facilities, see item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, notes 4 and 5 of notes to consolidated financial statements of this form 10-k. 11 our results could be adversely affected by natural disasters, public health crises, political crises, negative global climate patterns, or other catastrophic events. natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, earthquakes, and other adverse weather conditions; unforeseen public health crises, such as pandemics and epidemics; political crises, such as terrorist attacks, war, labor unrest, and other political instability; negative global climate patterns, especially in water stressed regions; or other catastrophic events, such as fires or other disasters occurring at our distribution centers or our vendors' manufacturing facilities, whether occurring in the united states or internationally, could disrupt our operations, including the operations of our franchisees, or the operations of one or more of our vendors. in particular, these types of events could impact our supply chain from or to the impacted region and could impact our ability or the ability of our franchisees or other third parties to operate our stores or websites. in addition, these types of events could negatively impact consumer spending in the impacted regions or, depending upon the severity, globally. disasters occurring at our vendors ' manufacturing facilities could impact our reputation and our customers ' perception of our brands. to the extent any of these events occur, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. reductions in income and cash flow from our credit card arrangement related to our private label and co-branded credit cards could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. a third-party, synchrony financial ( synchrony ), owns and services our private label credit card and co-branded programs. our agreement with synchrony provides for certain payments to be made by synchrony to us, including a share of revenues from the performance of the credit card portfolios. the income and cash flow that we receive from synchrony is dependent upon a number of factors, including the level of sales on private label and co-branded accounts, the level of balances carried on the accounts, payment rates on the accounts, finance charge rates and other fees on the accounts, the level of credit losses for the accounts, synchrony's ability to extend credit to our customers as well as the cost of customer rewards programs. all of these factors can vary based on changes in federal and state credit card, banking, and commercial protection laws. the factors affecting the income and cash flow that the company receives from synchrony can also vary based on a variety of economic, legal, social, and other factors that we cannot control. if the income and cash flow that we receive from our consumer credit card program agreement with synchrony decreases significantly, our operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected . we are subject to various proceedings, lawsuits, disputes, and claims from time to time, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. as a multinational company, we are subject to various proceedings, lawsuits, disputes, and claims ( actions ) arising in the ordinary course of our business. many of these actions raise complex factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties. actions filed against us from time to time include commercial, intellectual property, customer, employment, and data privacy claims, including class action lawsuits. the plaintiffs in some actions seek unspecified damages or injunctive relief, or both. actions are in various procedural stages and some are covered in part by insurance. we cannot predict with assurance the outcome of actions brought against us. accordingly, developments, settlements, or resolutions may occur and impact income in the quarter of such development, settlement, or resolution. an unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 33 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. derivative financial instruments certain financial information about the company's derivative financial instruments is set forth under the heading "derivative financial instruments" in note 7 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, of this form 10-k. we have performed a sensitivity analysis as of february 3, 2018 based on a model that measures the impact of a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates to u.s. dollars (with all other variables held constant) on our underlying estimated major foreign currency exposures, net of derivative financial instruments. the foreign currency exchange rates used in the model were based on the spot rates in effect as of february 3, 2018 . the sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10 percent adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would have an unfavorable impact on the underlying cash flow, net of our foreign exchange derivative financial instruments, of $40 million as of february 3, 2018 . debt certain financial information about the company's debt is set forth under the heading "debt" in note 4 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, of this form 10-k. our $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.95 percent notes due april 2021 are not subject to interest rate risk as they have a fixed interest rate. a final repayment of 7.5 billion japanese yen for the 15 billion japanese yen, four-year, unsecured japan term loan due january 2018 was fully repaid in june 2017. cash equivalents we have highly liquid fixed and variable income investments classified as cash equivalents, which are placed primarily in time deposits and money market funds. we value these investments at their original purchase prices plus interest that has accrued at the stated rate. the value of our investments is not subject to material interest rate risk. however, changes in interest rates would impact the interest income derived from our investments. we earned interest income of $19 million in fiscal 2017 . 33risk factors 6 risk factors. our past performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance because actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to the risks and uncertainties discussed below. in addition, historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. our plan to separate into two independent publicly-traded companies is subject to various risks and uncertainties and may not be completed in accordance with the expected plans or anticipated timeline, or at all, and will involve significant time and expense, which could disrupt or adversely affect our businesses. on february 28, 2019, we announced our intention to separate into two independent publicly-traded companies: old navy and a yet-to-be-named company ( newco ), which will consist of the gap brand, athleta, banana republic, intermix and hill city. we expect to effect the separation through a spin-off that is intended to generally be tax-free to the company's shareholders for u.s. federal income tax purposes. the transaction is currently targeted to be completed in 2020 and is subject to certain conditions, including final approval by our board of directors, receipt of a tax opinion from counsel, and the filing and effectiveness of a registration statement with the u.s. securities and exchange commission. the failure to satisfy all of the required conditions could delay the completion of the separation for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring at all, and there can be no assurances regarding the ultimate timing or terms of the separation or that the separation will be completed. in addition, the separation is complex in nature, and unanticipated developments or changes, including changes in law, the macroeconomic environment, market conditions, the retail industry or political conditions may affect our ability to complete the transaction as currently expected, within the anticipated time frame or at all. any changes to the transaction or delay in completing the transaction could cause us not to realize some or all of the expected benefits, or realize them on a different timeline than expected. in addition, although we intend for the separation to generally be tax-free to the company's shareholders for u.s. federal income tax purposes, there can be no assurance that the transaction will so qualify. if the separation were ultimately determined to be taxable, the company, the company's shareholders and/or the new independent companies could incur income tax liabilities and/or indemnity obligations that could be significant. we expect that the process of completing the separation will be time-consuming and involve significant costs and expenses, which may be significantly higher than what we currently anticipate and may not yield a benefit if the separation is not completed. executing the separation will require significant time and attention from our senior management and employees, which could disrupt our ongoing business and adversely affect the financial results and results of operations. we may also experience increased difficulties in attracting, retaining and motivating employees and/or attracting and retaining customers during the pendency of the separation and following its completion, which could harm our businesses. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or the price of our common stock. the separation may not achieve some or all of the anticipated benefits. we may not realize some or all of the anticipated strategic, financial, operational or other benefits from the separation, and there is no assurance that following the separation, each separate company will be successful. as independent publicly-traded companies, old navy and newco will be smaller, less diversified companies and may be more vulnerable to changing conditions in the retail industry or changes in market conditions, which could materially adversely affect their respective businesses, financial conditions, results of operations. for example, old navy will no longer be part of a company that also includes a number of other specialty brands, and the newco businesses will no longer be part of a company that also operates old navy as a fast-growing brand that is a category leader in family apparel. these factors could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or the price of the common stock of old navy and/or newco. 6 in addition, investors holding our common stock prior to the separation may hold our common stock because of a decision to invest in a company that operates both our old navy and specialty brands. if the separation transaction is completed, shares of common stock in each independent company held by those investors will represent an investment in a company with a different profile than that of gap, and, as a result, some investors may sell our common stock prior to the separation or sell the common stock of one or both independent companies resulting from the separation. further, there can be no assurance that the combined value of the common stock of the two publicly traded companies resulting from the separation will be equal to or greater than what the value of our common stock would have been had the separation not occurred. we must successfully gauge apparel trends and changing consumer preferences to succeed. our success is largely dependent upon our ability to gauge the tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand in a timely manner. however, lead times for many of our design and purchasing decisions may make it more difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing apparel trends or consumer acceptance of our products. the global apparel retail business fluctuates according to changes in consumer preferences, dictated in part by apparel trends and season. to the extent we misjudge the market for our merchandise or the products suitable for local markets or fail to execute trends and deliver product to market as timely as our competitors, our sales will be adversely affected, and the markdowns required to move the resulting excess inventory will adversely affect our operating results. our business is highly competitive. the global apparel retail industry is highly competitive. we and our franchisees compete with local, national, and global department stores, specialty and discount store chains, independent retail stores, and online businesses that market similar lines of merchandise. we face a variety of competitive challenges in an increasingly complex and fast-paced environment, including: anticipating and quickly responding to changing apparel trends and customer demands; attracting customer traffic both in stores and online; competitively pricing our products and achieving customer perception of value; maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to customers in several diverse market segments and geographic locations; anticipating and responding to changing customer shopping preferences and practices, including the increasing shift to digital brand engagement, social media communication, and online shopping; developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors, and styles that appeal to customers of varying age groups and tastes; purchasing and stocking merchandise to match seasonal weather patterns, and our ability to react to shifts in weather that impact consumer demand; sourcing and allocating merchandise efficiently; and improving the effectiveness and efficiency of our processes in order to deliver cost savings to fund growth. if we or our franchisees are not able to compete successfully in the united states or internationally, our results of operations would be adversely affected. we must maintain our reputation and brand image. our brands have wide recognition, and our success has been due in large part to our ability to maintain, enhance and protect our brand image and reputation and our customers' connection to our brands. our continued success depends in part on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. even if we react appropriately to negative posts or comments about us and/or our brands on social media and online, our customers' perception of our brand image and our reputation could be negatively impacted. in addition, customer sentiment could be shaped by our sustainability policies and related design, sourcing and operations decisions. failure to maintain, enhance and protect our brand image could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 7 the failure to attract and retain key personnel, or effectively manage succession, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to changing apparel trends depends in part on our ability to attract and retain key personnel in our design, merchandising, sourcing, marketing, and other functions. in addition, several of our strategic initiatives, including our technology initiatives and supply chain initiatives, require that we hire and/or develop employees with appropriate experience. competition for talent is intense, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel in future periods. if we are unable to retain, attract, and motivate talented employees with the appropriate skill sets, or if changes to our organizational structure, operating results, or business model adversely affect morale or retention, we may not achieve our objectives and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. in addition, the loss of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to effectively identify a suitable successor to a key role could have a material adverse effect on our business. in fiscal 2018, there were changes to our management team, including our new president and chief executive officer of gap brand. the effectiveness of new leaders in these roles, and any further transition as a result of these changes, could have a significant impact on our results of operations. our investments in customer, digital, and omni-channel shopping initiatives may not deliver the results we anticipate. one of our strategic priorities is to further develop an omni-channel shopping experience for our customers through the integration of our store and digital shopping channels. our omni-channel initiatives include cross-channel logistics optimization and exploring additional ways to develop an omni-channel shopping experience, including further digital integration and customer personalization. these initiatives involve significant investments in it systems and significant operational changes. in addition, our competitors are also investing in omni-channel initiatives, some of which may be more successful than our initiatives . if the implementation of our customer, digital, and omni-channel initiatives is not successful, or we do not realize the return on our investments in these initiatives that we anticipate, our operating results would be adversely affected. if we are unable to manage our inventory effectively, our gross margins could be adversely affected. fluctuations in the global apparel retail markets impact the levels of inventory owned by apparel retailers. the nature of the global apparel retail business requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory, especially prior to the peak holiday selling season when we build up our inventory levels. merchandise usually must be ordered well in advance of the season and frequently before apparel trends are confirmed by customer purchases. we must enter into contracts for the purchase and manufacture of merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season. as a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to suboptimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. in the past, we have not always predicted our customers' preferences and acceptance levels of our trend items with accuracy. if sales do not meet expectations, too much inventory may cause excessive markdowns and, therefore, lower-than-planned margins. we have key strategic initiatives designed to optimize our inventory levels and increase the efficiency and responsiveness of our supply chain, including vendor fabric platforming, product demand testing, and in-season rapid response to demand. these initiatives involve significant systems and operational changes, and we have limited experience operating in this manner. if we are unable to implement these initiatives successfully, we may not realize the return on our investments that we anticipate, and our operating results could be adversely affected. 8 we are subject to data and security risks, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and consumer confidence in our security measures. as part of our normal operations, we receive and maintain confidential, proprietary, and personally identifiable information, including credit card information, and information about our customers, our employees, job applicants, and other third parties. our business employs systems and websites that allow for the secure storage and transmission of this information. however, despite our safeguards and security processes and protections, security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation, and potential liability. the retail industry, in particular, has been the target of many recent cyber-attacks. we may not have the resources to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks. attacks may be targeted at us, our vendors or customers, or others who have entrusted us with information. in addition, even if we take appropriate measures to safeguard our information security and privacy environment from security breaches, we could still expose our customers and our business to risk. actual or anticipated attacks may disrupt or impair our technology capabilities, and may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third-party experts and consultants. advances in computer capabilities, new technological discoveries, or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect transaction or other data being breached or compromised. measures we implement to protect against cyber attacks may also have the potential to impact our customers' shopping experience or decrease activity on our websites by making them more difficult to use. data and security breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues, including intentional or inadvertent breach by our employees or by persons with whom we have commercial relationships that result in the unauthorized release of personal or confidential information. in addition, the global regulatory environment surrounding information security, cybersecurity, and privacy is increasingly demanding, with new laws, such as the european union's general data protection regulation (gdpr) and the california consumer privacy act, which give customers the right to control how their personal information is collected, used and retained. violating these rights, or failing to secure personal information could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, and a loss of consumer confidence in our security measures, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation. failures of, or updates or changes to, our it systems may disrupt operations. we maintain a complex network of legacy systems. we require continual maintenance, upgrades and changes, some of which are significant. upgrades involve replacing existing systems with successor systems, making changes to existing systems, or cost-effectively acquiring new systems with new functionality. we are aware of inherent risks associated with maintaining and replacing these systems, including accurately capturing data and addressing system disruptions and believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through testing, training, and staging implementation, as well as ensuring appropriate commercial contracts are in place with third-party vendors supplying or supporting our it initiatives. however, there can be no assurances that we will successfully maintain or launch these systems as planned or that they will be implemented without disruptions to our operations. it system disruptions or failures, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, or failure to successfully implement new or upgraded systems, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 9 our business is subject to risks associated with global sourcing and manufacturing. independent third parties manufacture all of our products for us. as a result, we are directly impacted by increases in the cost of those products . if we experience significant increases in demand or need to replace an existing vendor, there can be no assurance that additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us or that any vendor would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. in addition, for any new manufacturing source, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train our vendors in our methods, products, quality control standards, and environmental, labor, health, and safety standards. moreover, in the event of a significant disruption in the supply of the fabrics or raw materials used by our vendors in the manufacture of our products, our vendors might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price. any delays, interruption, or increased costs in the manufacture of our products could result in lower sales and net income. in addition, certain countries represent a larger portion of our global sourcing. for example, approximately 28 percent and 21 percent of our merchandise, by dollar value, is purchased from factories in vietnam and china, respectively. accordingly, any delays in production and added costs in vietnam or china could have a more significant impact on our results of operations. because independent vendors manufacture virtually all of our products outside of our principal sales markets, third parties must transport our products over large geographic distances. delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion, or other factors, and costs and delays associated with transitioning between vendors, could adversely impact our financial performance. operating or manufacturing delays, transportation delays, or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as aircraft, which could adversely affect our gross margins. in addition, the cost of fuel is a significant component of transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our gross margins. global economic conditions and any related impact on consumer spending patterns could adversely impact our results of operations. the company's performance is subject to global economic conditions, as well as their impact on levels of consumer spending worldwide. some of the factors that may influence consumer spending include high levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, reductions in net worth based on market declines and uncertainty, home foreclosures and reductions in home values, fluctuating interest and foreign currency rates and credit availability, government austerity measures, fluctuating fuel and other energy costs, fluctuating commodity prices, and general uncertainty regarding the overall future economic environment. consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, generally decline during periods when disposable income is adversely affected or there is economic uncertainty. adverse economic changes in any of the regions in which we and our franchisees sell our products could reduce consumer confidence, and thereby could negatively affect earnings and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in challenging and uncertain economic environments, we cannot predict whether or when such circumstances may improve or worsen, or what impact, if any, such circumstances could have on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. 10 our efforts to expand internationally may not be successful. our current strategies include pursuing selective international expansion in a number of countries around the world through a number of channels. this includes our franchisees opening additional stores internationally. we have limited experience operating or franchising in some of these locations. in many of these locations, we face major, established competitors. in addition, in many of these locations, the real estate, employment and labor, transportation and logistics, regulatory, and other operating requirements differ dramatically from those in the places where we have more experience. consumer tastes and trends may differ in many of these locations and, as a result, the sales of our products may not be successful or result in the margins we anticipate. if our international expansion plans are unsuccessful or do not deliver an appropriate return on our investments, our operations and financial results could be materially, adversely affected. risks associated with importing merchandise from foreign countries, including failure of our vendors to adhere to our code of vendor conduct, could harm our business. we purchase nearly all merchandise from third-party vendors in many different countries, and we require those vendors to adhere to a code of vendor conduct, which includes environmental, labor, health, and safety standards. from time to time, contractors or their subcontractors may not be in compliance with these standards or applicable local laws. although we have implemented policies and procedures to facilitate our compliance with laws and regulations relating to doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise into various countries, there can be no assurance that suppliers and other third parties with whom we do business will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies. significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more vendors could have a negative impact on our reputation, could subject us to liability, and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our franchise business is subject to certain risks not directly within our control that could impair the value of our brands. we enter into franchise agreements with unaffiliated franchisees to operate stores and, in limited circumstances, websites, in many countries around the world. under these agreements, third parties operate, or will operate, stores and websites that sell apparel and related products under our brand names. the effect of these arrangements on our business and results of operations is uncertain and will depend upon various factors, including the demand for our products in new markets internationally and our ability to successfully identify appropriate third parties to act as franchisees, distributors, or in a similar capacity. in addition, certain aspects of these arrangements are not directly within our control, such as franchisee financial stability and the ability of these third parties to meet their projections regarding store locations, store openings, and sales. other risks that may affect these third parties include general economic conditions in specific countries or markets, foreign exchange rates, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, restrictions on the transfer of funds, and political instability. moreover, while the agreements we have entered into and plan to enter into in the future provide us with certain termination rights, the value of our brands could be impaired to the extent that these third parties do not operate their stores in a manner consistent with our requirements regarding our brand identities and customer experience standards. failure to protect the value of our brands, or any other harmful acts or omissions by a franchisee, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation. 11 the market for prime real estate is competitive. our ability to effectively obtain real estate - to open new stores, distribution centers, and corporate offices nationally and internationally - depends on the availability of real estate that meets our criteria for traffic, square footage, co-tenancies, lease economics, demographics, and other factors. we also must be able to effectively renew our existing store leases. in addition, we may seek to downsize, consolidate, reposition, relocate, or close some of our real estate locations, which in most cases requires a modification of an existing store lease. failure to secure adequate new locations, successfully modify or exit existing locations, or failure to effectively manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, the economic environment may at times make it difficult to determine the fair market rent of real estate properties within the united states and internationally. this could impact the quality of our decisions to exercise lease options at previously negotiated rents and the quality of our decisions to renew expiring leases at negotiated rents. any adverse effect on the quality of these decisions could impact our ability to retain real estate locations adequate to meet our targets or efficiently manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. our business is exposed to the risks of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and our hedging strategies may not be effective in mitigating those risks. we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to our sales, operating expenses, profits, assets, and liabilities generated or incurred in foreign currencies as well as inventory purchases in u.s. dollars for our foreign subsidiaries. although we use financial instruments to hedge certain foreign currency risks, these measures may not succeed in fully offsetting the negative impact of foreign currency rate movements and generally only delay the impact of adverse foreign currency rate movements on our business and financial results. we experience fluctuations in our comparable sales and margins. our success depends in part on our ability to improve sales, in particular at our largest brands. a variety of factors affect comparable sales or margins, including but not limited to apparel trends, competition, current economic conditions, the timing of new merchandise releases and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, the success of marketing programs, foreign currency fluctuations, industry traffic trends, and weather conditions. these factors may cause our comparable sales results and margins to differ materially from prior periods and from expectations. our comparable sales, including the associated comparable online sales, have fluctuated significantly in the past on an annual and quarterly basis. over the past fiscal year, our reported quarterly comparable sales have ranged from a high of positive 2 percent in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 to a low of negative 1 percent in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 . over the past five years, our reported gross margins have ranged from a high of 38.3 percent in fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2014 to a low of 36.2 percent in fiscal 2015. in addition, over the past five years, our reported operating margins have ranged from a high of 12.7 percent in fiscal 2014 to a low of 7.7 percent in fiscal 2016. our ability to deliver strong comparable sales results and margins depends in large part on accurately forecasting demand and apparel trends, selecting effective marketing techniques, providing an appropriate mix of merchandise for our broad and diverse customer base, managing inventory effectively, using effective pricing strategies, and optimizing store performance. failure to meet the expectations of investors, securities analysts, or credit rating agencies in one or more future periods could reduce the market price of our common stock, cause our credit ratings to decline, and impact liquidity. 12 changes in our credit profile or deterioration in market conditions may limit our access to the capital markets and adversely impact our financial position or our business initiatives. in april 2011, we issued $ 1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.95 percent notes due april 2021 . as a result, we have additional costs that include interest payable semi-annually on the notes. our cash flows from operations are the primary source of funds for these debt service payments. in this regard, we have generated annual cash flow from operating activities in excess of $1 billion per year for well over a decade and ended fiscal 2018 with $1.1 billion of cash and cash equivalents on our balance sheet. we are also able to supplement near-term liquidity, if necessary, with our $ 500 million revolving credit facility. we continue to target a cash balance between $1.0 billion to $1.2 billion, which provides not only for our working capital needs, but also a reserve for unexpected business downturns. however, if our cash flows from operating activities decline significantly, we may be required to reprioritize our business initiatives to ensure that we can continue to service or refinance our debt with favorable rates and terms. in addition, any future reduction in our long-term senior unsecured credit ratings could result in reduced access to the credit and capital markets and higher interest costs and potentially increased lease or hedging costs. in may 2016, fitch ratings and standard &amp; poor's rating services downgraded their respective credit ratings of us from bbb- negative outlook to bb+ stable outlook. these downgrades, and any future reduction in our long-term senior unsecured credit ratings, could result in reduced access to the credit and capital markets, more restrictive covenants in future financial documents and higher interest costs, and potentially increased lease or hedging costs. for further information on our debt and credit facilities, see item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, notes 4 and 5 of notes to consolidated financial statements of this form 10-k. trade matters may disrupt our supply chain. trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, safeguards, and customs restrictions against apparel items, as well as u.s. or foreign labor strikes, work stoppages, or boycotts, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of apparel available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we cannot predict whether any of the countries in which our merchandise currently is manufactured or may be manufactured in the future will be subject to additional trade restrictions imposed by the united states or other foreign governments, including the likelihood, type, or effect of any such restrictions. for example, the current political landscape has introduced greater uncertainty with respect to future tax and trade regulations. in addition, we face the possibility of anti-dumping or countervailing duties lawsuits from u.s. domestic producers. we are unable to determine the impact of the changes to the quota system or the impact that potential tariff lawsuits could have on our global sourcing operations. our sourcing operations may be adversely affected by trade limits or political and financial instability, resulting in the disruption of trade from exporting countries, significant fluctuation in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies, restrictions on the transfer of funds, and/or other trade disruptions. changes in tax policy or trade regulations, such as the imposition of new tariffs on imported products, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. changes in the regulatory or administrative landscape could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. laws and regulations at the local, state, federal, and international levels frequently change, and the ultimate cost of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. in addition, we cannot predict the impact that may result from changes in the regulatory or administrative landscape. any changes in laws or regulations, the imposition of additional laws or regulations, or the enactment of any new or more stringent legislation that impacts employment and labor, trade, product safety, transportation and logistics, health care, tax, privacy, operations, or environmental issues, among others, could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 13 our results could be adversely affected by natural disasters, public health crises, political crises, negative global climate patterns, or other catastrophic events. natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, earthquakes, and other adverse weather conditions; unforeseen public health crises, such as pandemics and epidemics; political crises, such as terrorist attacks, war, labor unrest, and other political instability; negative global climate patterns, especially in water stressed regions; or other catastrophic events, such as fires or other disasters occurring at our distribution centers or our vendors' manufacturing facilities, whether occurring in the united states or internationally, could disrupt our operations, including the operations of our franchisees, or the operations of one or more of our vendors. in particular, these types of events could impact our supply chain from or to the impacted region and could impact our ability or the ability of our franchisees or other third parties to operate our stores or websites. in addition, these types of events could negatively impact consumer spending in the impacted regions or, depending upon the severity, globally. disasters occurring at our vendors ' manufacturing facilities could impact our reputation and our customers ' perception of our brands. to the extent any of these events occur, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. reductions in income and cash flow from our credit card arrangement related to our private label and co-branded credit cards could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. a third-party, synchrony financial ( synchrony ), owns and services our private label credit card and co-branded programs. our agreement with synchrony provides for certain payments to be made by synchrony to us, including a share of revenues from the performance of the credit card portfolios. the income and cash flow that we receive from synchrony is dependent upon a number of factors, including the level of sales on private label and co-branded accounts, the level of balances carried on the accounts, payment rates on the accounts, finance charge rates and other fees on the accounts, the level of credit losses for the accounts, synchrony's ability to extend credit to our customers as well as the cost of customer rewards programs. all of these factors can vary based on changes in federal and state credit card, banking, and commercial protection laws. the factors affecting the income and cash flow that the company receives from synchrony can also vary based on a variety of economic, legal, social, and other factors that we cannot control. if the income and cash flow that we receive from our consumer credit card program agreement with synchrony decreases significantly, our operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected . we are subject to various proceedings, lawsuits, disputes, and claims from time to time, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. as a multinational company, we are subject to various proceedings, lawsuits, disputes, and claims ( actions ) arising in the ordinary course of our business. many of these actions raise complex factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties. actions filed against us from time to time include commercial, intellectual property, customer, employment, and data privacy claims, including class action lawsuits. the plaintiffs in some actions seek unspecified damages or injunctive relief, or both. actions are in various procedural stages and some are covered in part by insurance. we cannot predict with assurance the outcome of actions brought against us. accordingly, developments, settlements, or resolutions may occur and impact income in the quarter of such development, settlement, or resolution. an unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. derivative financial instruments certain financial information about the company's derivative financial instruments is set forth under the heading "derivative financial instruments" in note 7 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, of this form 10-k. we have performed a sensitivity analysis as of february 2, 2019 based on a model that measures the impact of a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates to u.s. dollars (with all other variables held constant) on our underlying estimated major foreign currency exposures, net of derivative financial instruments. the foreign currency exchange rates used in the model were based on the spot rates in effect as of february 2, 2019 . the sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10 percent adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would have an unfavorable impact on the underlying cash flow, net of our foreign exchange derivative financial instruments, of $27 million as of february 2, 2019 . debt certain financial information about the company's debt is set forth under the heading "debt" in note 4 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, of this form 10-k. our $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.95 percent notes due april 2021 has a fixed interest rate and is exposed to interest rate risk that is limited to changes in fair value. changes in interest rates do not impact our cash flows. cash equivalents and short-term investments certain financial information about the company's cash equivalents and short-term investments is set forth under the heading "fair value measurements" in note 6 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, of this form 10-k. we have highly liquid fixed and variable income investments classified as cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. all highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase are classified as cash and cash equivalents. our cash equivalents are placed primarily in time deposits, money market funds, and commercial paper. we generally value these investments at their original purchase prices plus interest that has accrued at the stated rate. we also have highly liquid investments with original maturities of greater than three months and less than two years that are classified as short-term investments. these securities are recorded at fair value using market prices. changes in interest rates impact the fair value of our investments that are considered available-for-sale. as of february 2, 2019 , the company held $ 288 million of available-for-sale debt securities with original maturity dates greater than three months and less than two years within short-term investments on the consolidated balance sheet. in addition, as of february 2, 2019 , the company held $16 million of available-for-sale debt securities with original maturities of less than three months at the time of purchase within cash and cash equivalents. unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale debt securities included in accumulated other comprehensive income were immaterial as of february 2, 2019 . changes in interest rates also impact the interest income derived from our cash equivalents and short-term investments. in fiscal 2018 , we earned interest income of $33 million . 34risk factors 6 risk factors. our past performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance because actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to the risks and uncertainties discussed below. in addition, historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. we must successfully gauge apparel trends and changing consumer preferences to succeed. our success is largely dependent upon our ability to gauge the tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand in a timely manner. however, lead times for many of our design and purchasing decisions may make it more difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing apparel trends or consumer acceptance of our products. the global apparel retail business fluctuates according to changes in consumer preferences, dictated in part by apparel trends and season. to the extent we misjudge the market for our merchandise or the products suitable for local markets, or fail to execute trends and deliver products to the market as timely as our competitors, our sales will be adversely affected, and the markdowns required to move the resulting excess inventory will adversely affect our operating results. our business is highly competitive. the global apparel retail industry is highly competitive. we and our franchisees compete with local, national, and global department stores, specialty and discount store chains, independent retail stores, and online businesses that market similar lines of merchandise. we face a variety of competitive challenges in an increasingly complex and fast-paced environment, including: anticipating and quickly responding to changing apparel trends and customer demands; attracting customer traffic both in stores and online; competitively pricing our products and achieving customer perception of value; maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to customers in several diverse market segments and geographic locations; anticipating and responding to changing customer shopping preferences and practices, including the increasing shift to digital brand engagement, social media communication, and online shopping; developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors, and styles that appeal to customers of varying age groups and tastes; purchasing and stocking merchandise to match seasonal weather patterns, and our ability to react to shifts in weather that impact consumer demand; sourcing and allocating merchandise efficiently; and improving the effectiveness and efficiency of our processes in order to deliver cost savings to fund growth. if we or our franchisees are not able to compete successfully in the united states or internationally, our results of operations would be adversely affected. global economic conditions and any related impact on consumer spending patterns could adversely impact our results of operations. our performance is subject to global economic conditions, as well as their impact on levels of consumer spending worldwide. some of the factors that may influence consumer spending include high levels of unemployment, pandemics (such as the impact of the current coronavirus disease (covid-19) pandemic, including reduced store traffic and widespread temporary store closures), higher consumer debt levels, reductions in net worth based on market declines and uncertainty, home foreclosures and reductions in home values, fluctuating interest and foreign currency rates and credit availability, government austerity measures, fluctuating fuel and other energy costs, fluctuating commodity prices, and general uncertainty regarding the overall future economic environment. consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, generally decline during periods when disposable income is adversely affected or there is economic uncertainty. 6 adverse economic changes in any of the regions in which we and our franchisees sell our products could reduce consumer confidence, and thereby could negatively affect earnings and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. in challenging and uncertain economic environments, we cannot predict whether or when such circumstances may improve or worsen, or what impact, if any, such circumstances could have on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. we may engage in or seek to engage in strategic transactions, such as acquisitions and dispositions, that are subject to various risks and uncertainties, which could disrupt or adversely affect our businesses. we may engage in or seek to engage in strategic transactions, such as acquisitions or dispositions, which we may not be able to complete on anticipated terms or time frames, or at all, or which may not generate some or all of the strategic, financial, operational or other benefits we expect to realize from such transactions on such anticipated time frames or at all. in addition, these transactions may be complex in nature, and unanticipated developments or changes, including changes in law, the macroeconomic environment, market conditions, the retail industry or political conditions may affect our ability to complete such transactions. in addition, the process of completing these transactions may be time-consuming and involve significant costs and expenses, which may be significantly higher than what we anticipate and may not yield a benefit if the transactions are not completed successfully, and executing these transactions may require significant time and attention from our senior management and employees, which could disrupt our ongoing business and adversely affect the financial results and results of operations. we may also experience increased difficulties in attracting, retaining and motivating employees and/or attracting and retaining customers during the pendency or following the completion of any of these transactions, which could harm our businesses. in particular, on january 16, 2020, we announced that we would no longer pursue our previously announced plan to separate into two independent publicly traded companies. we incurred significant costs and expenses in connection with our planned separation, which required significant attention from our senior management and employees, and we expect that the process of unwinding the separation-related work will be time-consuming, will involve additional costs and expenses, and may result in difficulties attracting, retaining and motivating employees, which could harm our business and adversely affect the financial results and results of operations. any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or the price of our common stock. we must maintain our reputation and brand image. our brands have wide recognition, and our success has been due in large part to our ability to maintain, enhance and protect our brand image and reputation and our customers' connection to our brands. our continued success depends in part on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including our increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. even if we react appropriately to negative posts or comments about us and/or our brands on social media and online, our customers' perception of our brand image and our reputation could be negatively impacted. in addition, customer sentiment could be shaped by our sustainability policies and related design, sourcing and operations decisions. failure to maintain, enhance and protect our brand image could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our failure to manage key executive succession and retention and to continue to attract qualified personnel could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to changing apparel trends depends in part on our ability to attract and retain key personnel in our design, merchandising, sourcing, marketing, and other functions. in addition, several of our strategic initiatives, including our technology initiatives and supply chain initiatives, require that we hire and/or develop employees with appropriate experience. we must also attract, develop, and retain a sufficient number of qualified field and distribution center personnel. competition for talent is intense and the turnover rate in the retail industry is generally high, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel in future periods. our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling costs is subject to external factors such as unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, minimum wage legislation, and overtime regulations. if we are unable to retain, attract, and motivate talented employees with the appropriate skill sets, or if changes to our organizational structure, operating results, or business model adversely affect morale or 7 retention, we may not achieve our objectives and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. in addition, the loss of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to effectively identify a suitable successor to a key role could have a material adverse effect on our business. since the beginning of fiscal 2019, there have been significant changes to our executive leadership team, including the departures of our chief executive officer and our president and chief executive officer of gap brand and the upcoming departure of our chief financial officer, and the appointment of a new chief people officer. in march 2020, we promoted sonia syngal to chief executive officer and katrina o'connell to chief financial officer. the effectiveness of our leaders, including our new chief executive officer and chief financial officer, and any further transition, could have a significant impact on our results of operations. our investments in customer, digital, and omni-channel shopping initiatives may not deliver the results we anticipate. one of our strategic priorities is to further develop an omni-channel shopping experience for our customers through the integration of our store and digital shopping channels. our omni-channel initiatives include cross-channel logistics optimization and exploring additional ways to develop an omni-channel shopping experience, including further digital integration and customer personalization. these initiatives involve significant investments in it systems and significant operational changes. in addition, our competitors are also investing in omni-channel initiatives, some of which may be more successful than our initiatives. if the implementation of our customer, digital, and omni-channel initiatives is not successful, or we do not realize the return on our investments in these initiatives that we anticipate, our operating results would be adversely affected. if we are unable to manage our inventory effectively, our gross margins could be adversely affected. fluctuations in the global apparel retail markets impact the levels of inventory owned by apparel retailers. the nature of the global apparel retail business requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory, especially prior to the peak holiday selling season when we build up our inventory levels. merchandise usually must be ordered well in advance of the season and frequently before apparel trends are confirmed by customer purchases. we must enter into contracts for the purchase and manufacture of merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season. as a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to suboptimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. in the past, we have not always predicted our customers' preferences and acceptance levels of our trend items with accuracy. if sales do not meet expectations (for example, because of unexpected effects on inventory supply and consumer demand caused by the coronavirus disease (covid-19) pandemic), too much inventory may cause excessive markdowns and, therefore, lower-than-planned margins. we have key strategic initiatives designed to optimize our inventory levels and increase the efficiency and responsiveness of our supply chain, including vendor fabric platforming, product demand testing, and in-season rapid response to demand. we are also developing additional capabilities to analyze customer behavior and demand, which we believe will allow us to better localize assortment and improve store-level allocations, such as size allocation, to further tailor our assortments to customer needs and increase sell-through. further, we intend to leverage technology and data science to digitize product creation, integrate with our consolidated vendor base, and further optimize our product-to-market processes and supply chain to enhance our in-season responsiveness and reduce our exposure to fashion volatility. these initiatives and additional capabilities involve significant changes to our inventory management systems and processes. if we are unable to implement these initiatives and integrate these additional capabilities successfully, we may not realize the return on our investments that we anticipate, and our operating results could be adversely affected. our business is subject to risks associated with global sourcing and manufacturing. independent third parties manufacture all of our products for us. as a result, we are directly impacted by increases in the cost of those products . if we experience significant increases in demand or need to replace an existing vendor, there can be no assurance that additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us or that any vendor would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. in addition, for any new manufacturing source, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train our vendors in our methods, products, quality control standards, and environmental, labor, health, 8 and safety standards. moreover, in the event of a significant disruption in the supply of the fabrics or raw materials used by our vendors in the manufacture of our products, our vendors might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price. any delays, interruption, or increased costs in the manufacture of our products could result in lower sales and net income. in addition, certain countries represent a larger portion of our global sourcing. for example, in fiscal 2019, approximately 32 percent and 16 percent of our merchandise, by dollar value, is purchased from factories in vietnam and china, respectively. accordingly, any delays in production and added costs in vietnam or china could have a more significant impact on our results of operations. because independent vendors manufacture virtually all of our products outside of our principal sales markets, third parties must transport our products over large geographic distances. delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion, public health emergencies, social unrest, changes in local economic conditions, political upheavals, or other factors, and costs and delays associated with transitioning between vendors, could adversely impact our financial performance. operating or manufacturing delays, transportation delays, or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as aircraft, which could adversely affect our gross margins. in addition, the cost of fuel is a significant component of transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our gross margins. if our vendors, or any raw material vendors on which our vendors rely, suffer prolonged manufacturing or transportation disruptions due to public health conditions, such as the recent coronavirus disease (covid-19) pandemic, or other unforeseen events, our ability to source product could be adversely impacted which would adversely affect our results of operations. we are subject to data and security risks, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and consumer confidence in our security measures. as part of our normal operations, we receive and maintain confidential, proprietary, and personally identifiable information, including credit card information, and information about our customers, our employees, job applicants, and other third parties. our business employs systems and websites that allow for the secure storage and transmission of this information. however, despite our safeguards and security processes and protections, security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation, and potential liability. the retail industry, in particular, has been the target of many recent cyber-attacks. we may not have the resources to anticipate or prevent rapidly evolving types of cyber-attacks. attacks may be targeted at us, our vendors or customers, or others who have entrusted us with information. in addition, even if we take appropriate measures to safeguard our information security and privacy environment from security breaches, we could still expose our customers and our business to risk. actual or anticipated attacks may disrupt or impair our technology capabilities, and may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third-party experts and consultants. advances in computer capabilities, new technological discoveries, or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect transaction or other data being breached or compromised. measures we implement to protect against cyber attacks may also have the potential to impact our customers' shopping experience or decrease activity on our websites by making them more difficult to use. data and security breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues, including intentional or inadvertent breaches by our employees or by persons with whom we have commercial relationships that result in the unauthorized release of personal or confidential information. in addition, the global regulatory environment surrounding information security, cybersecurity, and privacy is increasingly demanding, with new laws, such as the european union's general data protection regulation (gdpr) and the california consumer privacy act, which give customers the right to control how their personal information is collected, used and retained. violating these rights, or failing to secure personal information, could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, and a loss of consumer confidence in our security measures, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation. 9 failures of, or updates or changes to, our it systems may disrupt operations. we maintain a complex technology platform consisting of both legacy and modern systems. these systems require continual maintenance, upgrades and changes, some of which are significant. upgrades involve replacing existing systems with successor systems, making changes to existing systems, or cost-effectively acquiring new systems with new functionality. we are aware of inherent risks associated with maintaining and replacing these systems, including accurately capturing data and addressing system disruptions and believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through testing, training, and staging implementation, as well as ensuring appropriate commercial contracts are in place with third-party vendors supplying or supporting our it initiatives. however, there can be no assurances that we will successfully maintain or launch these systems as planned or that they will be implemented without disruptions to our operations. it system disruptions or failures, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, or failure to successfully implement new or upgraded systems, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our efforts to expand internationally may not be successful. our current strategies include pursuing selective international expansion in a number of countries around the world through a number of channels. this includes our franchisees opening additional stores internationally. we have limited experience operating or franchising in some of these locations. in many of these locations, we face major, established competitors. in addition, in many of these locations, the real estate, employment and labor, transportation and logistics, regulatory, and other operating requirements differ dramatically from those in the places where we have more experience. consumer tastes and trends may differ in many of these locations and, as a result, the sales of our products may not be successful or result in the margins we anticipate. if our international expansion plans are unsuccessful or do not deliver an appropriate return on our investments, our operations and financial results could be materially, adversely affected. the market for real estate is competitive. our ability to effectively obtain real estate to open new stores, distribution centers, and corporate offices nationally and internationally depends on the availability of real estate that meets our criteria for traffic, square footage, co-tenancies, lease economics, demographics, and other factors. we also must be able to effectively renew our existing store leases. in addition, we may seek to downsize, consolidate, reposition, relocate, or close some of our real estate locations, which in most cases requires a modification of an existing store lease. for example, on february 28, 2019, we announced plans to restructure our fleet of specialty stores and revitalize the gap brand, including closing about 230 specialty stores during fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2020. failure to secure adequate new locations , successfully modify or exit existing locations, or effectively manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, the economic environment may at times make it difficult to determine the fair market rent of real estate properties within the united states and internationally. this could impact the quality of our decisions to exercise lease options at previously negotiated rents and the quality of our decisions to renew expiring leases at negotiated rents. any adverse effect on the quality of these decisions could impact our ability to retain real estate locations adequate to meet our targets or efficiently manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores, or cause impairments of our lease right of use assets as market values decline, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations . risks associated with importing merchandise from foreign countries, including failure of our vendors to adhere to our code of vendor conduct, could harm our business. we purchase nearly all merchandise from third-party vendors in many different countries, and we require those vendors to adhere to a code of vendor conduct, which includes environmental, labor, health, and safety standards. from time to time, contractors or their subcontractors may not be in compliance with these standards or applicable local laws. although we have implemented policies and procedures to facilitate our compliance with laws and regulations relating to doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise into various countries, there can be no assurance that suppliers and other third parties with whom we do business will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies. significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards 10 and laws by one or more vendors could have a negative impact on our reputation, could subject us to liability, and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. our franchise business is subject to certain risks not directly within our control that could impair the value of our brands. we enter into franchise agreements with unaffiliated franchisees to operate stores and, in limited circumstances, websites, in many countries around the world. under these agreements, third parties operate, or will operate, stores and websites that sell apparel and related products under our brand names. the effect of these arrangements on our business and results of operations is uncertain and will depend upon various factors, including the demand for our products in new markets internationally and our ability to successfully identify appropriate third parties to act as franchisees, distributors, or in a similar capacity. in addition, certain aspects of these arrangements are not directly within our control, such as franchisee financial stability and the ability of these third parties to meet their projections regarding store locations, store openings, and sales. other risks that may affect these third parties include general economic conditions in specific countries or markets, foreign exchange rates, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, restrictions on the transfer of funds, and political instability. moreover, while the agreements we have entered into and plan to enter into in the future provide us with certain termination rights, the value of our brands could be impaired to the extent that these third parties do not operate their stores in a manner consistent with our requirements regarding our brand identities and customer experience standards. failure to protect the value of our brands, or any other harmful acts or omissions by a franchisee, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation. trade matters may disrupt our supply chain. trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, safeguards, and customs restrictions against apparel items, as well as u.s. or foreign labor strikes, work stoppages, or boycotts, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of apparel available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we cannot predict whether any of the countries in which our merchandise currently is manufactured or may be manufactured in the future will be subject to additional trade restrictions imposed by the united states or other foreign governments, including the likelihood, type, or effect of any such restrictions. for example, the current political landscape and recent tariffs imposed by the u.s. and other countries in response has introduced greater uncertainty with respect to future tax and trade regulations. in addition, we face the possibility of anti-dumping or countervailing duties lawsuits from u.s. domestic producers. we are unable to determine the impact of the changes to the quota system or the impact that potential tariff lawsuits could have on our global sourcing operations. our sourcing operations may be adversely affected by trade limits or political and financial instability, resulting in the disruption of trade from exporting countries, significant fluctuation in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies, restrictions on the transfer of funds, or other trade disruptions. changes in tax policy or trade regulations, such as the imposition of new tariffs on imported products, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. our business is exposed to the risks of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and our hedging strategies may not be effective in mitigating those risks. we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to our sales, operating expenses, profits, assets, and liabilities generated or incurred in foreign currencies as well as inventory purchases in u.s. dollars for our foreign subsidiaries. although we use financial instruments to hedge certain foreign currency risks, these measures may not succeed in fully offsetting the negative impact of foreign currency rate movements and generally only delay the impact of adverse foreign currency rate movements on our business and financial results. we experience fluctuations in our comparable sales and margins. our success depends in part on our ability to grow sales and improve margins, in particular at our largest brands. a variety of factors affect comparable sales or margins, including but not limited to apparel trends, competition, current economic conditions, the timing of new merchandise releases and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, the success of marketing programs, foreign currency fluctuations, industry traffic trends, and weather conditions. these factors may cause our comparable sales results and margins to differ materially from 11 prior periods and from expectations. our comparable sales, including the associated comparable online sales, have fluctuated significantly in the past on an annual and quarterly basis. over the past fiscal year, our reported quarterly comparable sales have ranged from a high of negative 1 percent in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019 to a low of negative 4 percent in the first, second and third quarters of fiscal 2019 . over the past five years, our reported gross margins have ranged from a high of 38.3 percent in fiscal 2017 to a low of 36.2 percent in fiscal 2015. in addition, over the past five years, our reported operating margins have ranged from a high of 9.6 percent in fiscal 2015 to a low of 3.5 percent in fiscal 2019. our ability to deliver strong comparable sales results and margins depends in large part on accurately forecasting demand and apparel trends, selecting effective marketing techniques, providing an appropriate mix of merchandise for our broad and diverse customer base, managing inventory effectively, using effective pricing strategies, and optimizing store performance. failure to meet the expectations of investors, securities analysts, or credit rating agencies in one or more future periods could reduce the market price of our common stock, cause our credit ratings to decline, and impact liquidity. changes in our credit profile or deterioration in market conditions may limit our access to the capital markets and adversely impact our financial position or our business initiatives. in april 2011, we issued $ 1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.95 percent notes due april 2021 . as a result, we have additional costs that include interest payable semi-annually on the notes. our cash flows from operations are the primary source of funds for these debt service payments. in this regard, we have generated annual cash flow from operating activities in excess of $1 billion per year for well over a decade and ended fiscal 2019 with $1.4 billion of cash and cash equivalents on our balance sheet. we are also able to supplement near-term liquidity, if necessary, with our $ 500 million revolving credit facility. we continue to target a cash balance between $1.0 billion to $1.2 billion, which provides not only for our working capital needs, but also a reserve for unexpected business downturns. however, if our cash flows from operating activities decline significantly, including any such decline related to reduced store traffic and widespread temporary store closures as a result of the coronavirus disease (covid-19) pandemic, we may be required to reprioritize our business initiatives to ensure that we can continue to service or refinance our debt with favorable rates and terms. in addition, any future reduction in our long-term senior unsecured credit ratings could result in reduced access to the credit and capital markets, and higher interest costs and potentially increased lease or hedging costs. reduction in our credit ratings could also negatively impact our ability to extinguish our notes and enter into a new long-term debt arrangement. in november 2019, standard and poor's ratings service downgraded their credit rating of us from bb+ stable outlook to bb negative outlook. this downgrade, and any future reduction in our long-term senior unsecured credit ratings, could result in reduced access to the credit and capital markets, more restrictive covenants in future financial documents and higher interest costs, and potentially increased lease or hedging costs. for further information on our debt and credit facilities, see item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, note 5 and note 6 of notes to consolidated financial statements of this form 10-k. changes in the regulatory or administrative landscape could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. laws and regulations at the local, state, federal, and international levels frequently change, and the ultimate cost of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. in addition, we cannot predict the impact that may result from changes in the regulatory or administrative landscape. any changes in laws or regulations, the imposition of additional laws or regulations, or the enactment of any new or more stringent legislation that impacts employment and labor, trade, product safety, transportation and logistics, health care, tax, cybersecurity, privacy, operations, or environmental issues, among others, could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 12 our results could be adversely affected by natural disasters, public health crises, political crises, negative global climate patterns, or other catastrophic events. natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, earthquakes, and other adverse weather conditions; unforeseen public health crises, such as pandemics and epidemics (including, for example, the current coronavirus disease (covid-19) pandemic); political crises, such as terrorist attacks, war, labor unrest, and other political instability; negative global climate patterns, especially in water stressed regions; or other catastrophic events, such as fires or other disasters occurring at our distribution centers or our vendors' manufacturing facilities, whether occurring in the united states or internationally, could disrupt our operations, including the operations of our franchisees or the operations of one or more of our vendors. in particular, these types of events could impact our supply chain from or to the impacted region and could impact our ability or the ability of our franchisees or other third parties to operate our stores or websites. for example, the covid-19 pandemic has the potential to significantly impact our supply chain if the factories that manufacture our products are temporarily closed or experience worker shortages. in addition, these types of events could negatively impact consumer spending in the impacted regions or, depending upon the severity, globally. for example, if customers' concerns over potential exposure to covid-19 or social distancing measures imposed by governments cause customers to avoid shopping centers and other retail locations, our store revenue could be adversely impacted. disasters occurring at our vendors ' manufacturing facilities could impact our reputation and our customers ' perception of our brands. to the extent any of these events occur, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. reductions in income and cash flow from our credit card arrangement related to our private label and co-branded credit cards could adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. a third-party, synchrony financial ("synchrony"), owns and services our private label credit card and co-branded programs for our gap, old navy, banana republic and athleta brands. our agreement with synchrony provides for certain payments to be made by synchrony to us, including a share of revenues from the performance of the credit card portfolios. the income and cash flow that we receive from synchrony is dependent upon a number of factors, including the level of sales on private label and co-branded accounts, the level of balances carried on the accounts, payment rates on the accounts, finance charge rates and other fees on the accounts, the level of credit losses for the accounts, synchrony's ability to extend credit to our customers , as well as the cost of customer rewards programs. all of these factors can vary based on changes in federal and state credit card, banking, and commercial protection laws. the factors affecting the income and cash flow that we receive from synchrony can also vary based on a variety of economic, legal, social, and other factors that we cannot control. if the income and cash flow that we receive from the consumer credit card program agreement with synchrony decreases significantly, our operating results and cash flows could be adversely affected. we are subject to various proceedings, lawsuits, disputes, and claims from time to time, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. as a multinational company, we are subject to various proceedings, lawsuits, disputes, and claims ( actions ) arising in the ordinary course of our business. many of these actions raise complex factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties. actions filed against us from time to time include commercial, intellectual property, customer, employment, and data privacy claims, including class action lawsuits. the plaintiffs in some actions seek unspecified damages or injunctive relief, or both. actions are in various procedural stages and some are covered in part by insurance. we cannot predict with assurance the outcome of actions brought against us. accordingly, developments, settlements, or resolutions may occur and impact income in the quarter of such development, settlement, or resolution. an unfavorable outcome could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 33 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. derivative financial instruments certain financial information about the company's derivative financial instruments is set forth under the heading "derivative financial instruments" in note 8 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, of this form 10-k. we have performed a sensitivity analysis as of february 1, 2020 based on a model that measures the impact of a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates to u.s. dollars (with all other variables held constant) on our underlying estimated major foreign currency exposures, net of derivative financial instruments. the foreign currency exchange rates used in the model were based on the spot rates in effect as of february 1, 2020 . the sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10 percent adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would have an unfavorable impact on the underlying cash flow, net of our foreign exchange derivative financial instruments, of $40 million as of february 1, 2020 . debt certain financial information about the company's debt is set forth under the heading "debt" in note 5 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, of this form 10-k. 33 our $1.25 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.95 percent notes due april 2021 has a fixed interest rate and is exposed to interest rate risk that is limited to changes in fair value. changes in interest rates do not impact our cash flows. prior to maturity and subject to market conditions, we intend to extinguish our notes and also intend to enter into a new long-term debt arrangement. we intend to enter into a new secured revolving credit facility. cash equivalents and short-term investments certain financial information about the company's cash equivalents and short-term investments is set forth under the heading "fair value measurements" in note 7 of notes to consolidated financial statements included in item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, of this form 10-k. we have highly liquid fixed and variable income investments classified as cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. all highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase are classified as cash and cash equivalents. our cash equivalents are placed primarily in time deposits, money market funds, and commercial paper. we generally value these investments at their original purchase prices plus interest that has accrued at the stated rate. we also have highly liquid investments with original maturities of greater than three months and less than two years that are classified as short-term investments. these securities are recorded at fair value using market prices. changes in interest rates impact the fair value of our investments that are considered available-for-sale. as of february 1, 2020 and february 2, 2019, the company held $290 million and $ 288 million , respectively, of available-for-sale debt securities with original maturity dates greater than three months and less than two years within short-term investments on the consolidated balance sheets. in addition, as of february 1, 2020 and february 2, 2019, the company held $23 million and $ 16 million , respectively, of available-for-sale debt securities with original maturities of less than three months at the time of purchase within cash and cash equivalents. unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale debt securities included in accumulated other comprehensive income were immaterial as of february 1, 2020 and february 2, 2019. changes in interest rates also impact the interest income derived from our investments. in fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, we earned interest income of $30 million and $33 million, respectively. 34risk factors 8 seasonal business our business follows a seasonal pattern, with sales peaking over a total of about 13 weeks during the back-to-school (august) and holiday (november through december) periods. during fiscal 2006, these periods accounted for approximately 31% of our net sales. 5 table of contents brand building our ability to develop and evolve our existing brands is a key to our success. we believe our distinct brands are among our most important assets. with the exception of piperlime, all aspects of brand development from product design and distribution, to marketing, merchandising and shopping environments are controlled by us. we continue to invest in our brands and enhance the customer experience through the expansion and remodeling of existing stores, the closure of under-performing stores, and a focus on customer service. advertising we place print ads in major metropolitan newspapers and their sunday magazines, major news weeklies and magazine categories such as lifestyle and fashion. our ads also appear in various outdoor venues, such as mass transit posters, exterior bus panels, bus shelters and billboards, and indoor venues, such as in-mall kiosks. in addition, we advertise online. we run tv ads for gap and old navy, and radio ads for old navy. we plan to continue our investments in advertising and marketing in fiscal 2007. there can be no assurances that these investments will result in increased sales or profitability. trademarks and service marks gap, gapkids, babygap, gapbody, banana republic, old navy, forth &amp; towne, and piperlime trademarks and service marks, and certain other trademarks, have been registered, or are the subject of pending trademark applications with the united states patent and trademark office and with the registries of many foreign countries and/or are protected by common law. franchising we have franchise agreements with unaffiliated franchisees to operate gap or gap and banana republic stores in singapore, malaysia, united arab emirates, kuwait, qatar, bahrain, oman, indonesia, and korea. under these agreements, third parties operate or will operate stores that sell apparel, purchased from us, under our brand names. while we expect that this will be a small part of our business in the near future, we plan to continue to increase the number of countries in which we enter into these types of arrangements over time as part of our efforts to expand internationally. for additional information on risks related to our franchise business, see the section entitled risk factors our efforts to expand internationally through franchising and similar arrangements may not be successful and could impair the value of our brands below in item 1a. inventory the cyclical nature of the retail business requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory, especially prior to peak selling seasons when we and other retailers generally build up our inventory levels. we review our inventory levels in order to identify slow-moving merchandise and broken assortments (items no longer in stock in a sufficient range of sizes) and use markdowns to clear merchandise. because we do not carry much replenishment inventory in our stores, much of our inventory is maintained in distribution centers. also see the section entitled risk factors we must successfully gauge fashion trends and changing consumer preferences to succeed below in item 1a. competitors the global specialty apparel industry is highly competitive. we compete with national and local department stores, specialty and discount store chains, independent retail stores and internet businesses that market similar lines of merchandise. we are also faced with competition in european, japanese and canadian markets from established regional and national chains. also see the section entitled risk factors our business is highly competitive and depends on consumer spending patterns below in item 1a. 6 table of contents employees as of february 3, 2007, we had a work force of approximately 154,000 employees, which includes a combination of part and full-time employees. we hire temporary employees primarily during the peak back-to-school and holiday seasons. to remain competitive in the apparel retail industry we must attract, develop and retain skilled employees, including executives. competition for such personnel is intense. our success is dependent to a significant degree on the continued contributions of key employees. also see the section entitled risk factors we must successfully gauge fashion trends and changing consumer preferences to succeed below in item 1a. available information we make available on our website, www.gapinc.com, under investors, financials, sec filings free of charge, our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the u.s. securities and exchange commission ( sec ). our code of business conduct, board of directors committee charters (audit and finance, compensation and management development, governance, nominating and social responsibility committees), and corporate governance guidelines are also available on our website. the code of business conduct can be found at www.gapinc.com, under investors, corporate compliance, code of business conduct. any amendments and waivers to the code will also be available on the website. the committee charters and governance guidelines can be found on our website under investors, governance. all of these documents are also available in print to any stockholder who requests them. executive officers of the registrant the following are our executive officers: name, age, position and principal occupation during past five years: donald fisher , 78, founder; chairman emeritus since 2004; chairman of the company from 1969 to 2004; chief executive officer of the company from 1969 to 1995. robert fisher , 52, interim president and chief executive officer since january 2007; chairman since 2004; executive vice president and president of gap north america from february 1998 to november 2000; chief operating officer from march 1997 to february 1998. marka hansen , 52, president, gap north america since february 2007; president of banana republic from june 2003 to february 2007; evp of gap adult merchandising from february 2002 until june 2003; svp of human resources from march 2000 until february 2002; svp of merchandising, international division from april 1995 to march 2000, vp of merchandising from april 1990 to april 1995. art peck , 51, executive vice president, corporate strategy and business development since may 2005; senior vice president of the boston consulting group, an international strategy and general management consulting firm, from 1982 to may 2005; director of the boston consulting group from 1988 to 2005. byron pollitt , 55, executive vice president and chief financial officer since january 2003; executive vice president and chief financial officer of walt disney parks and resorts from 1999 to 2003. dawn robertson , 51, president, old navy since november 2006; managing director of myer department stores, australia leading department store, from 2002 to 2006; president and chief merchandising officer of federated direct, a division of federated department stores, from 2000 to 2002. 7 table of contents eva sage-gavin , 48, executive vice president human resources since march 2003; senior vice president human resources of sun microsystems, inc. from 2000 to 2003. lauri shanahan , 44, executive vice president, chief legal and administrative officer, chief compliance officer and corporate secretary since december 2006; executive vice president, chief compliance officer, general counsel and corporate secretary from may 2005 to december 2006; executive vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary from december 2004 until may 2005; senior vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary from 2001 to 2004. item 1a. risk factors our past performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance because actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below. in addition, historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. we must successfully gauge fashion trends and changing consumer preferences to succeed. our success is largely dependent upon our ability to gauge the fashion tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand in a timely manner. the global specialty retail business fluctuates according to changes in consumer preferences dictated, in part, by fashion and season. to the extent we misjudge the market for our merchandise or the products suitable for local markets, our sales will be adversely affected and the markdowns required to move the resulting excess inventory will adversely affect our operating results. some of our past product offerings have not been well received by our broad and diverse customer base. merchandise misjudgments could have a material adverse effect on our image with our customers and on our operating results. our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to changing fashion trends depends in part on our ability to attract and retain key personnel in our design, merchandising, marketing and other functions. competition for this personnel is intense, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel in future periods. fluctuations in the global specialty retail business especially affect the inventory owned by apparel retailers, since merchandise usually must be ordered well in advance of the season and frequently before fashion trends are evidenced by customer purchases. in addition, the cyclical nature of the global specialty retail business requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory, especially prior to peak back-to-school and holiday selling seasons when we build up our inventory levels. we must enter into contracts for the purchase and manufacture of merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season. as a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to suboptimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. in the past, we have not always predicted our customers preferences and acceptance levels of our fashion items with accuracy. in addition, lead times for many of our purchases are long, which may make it more difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing fashion trends or consumer acceptance for our products. if sales do not meet expectations, too much inventory may cause excessive markdowns and, therefore, lower than planned margins. our business is highly competitive and depends on consumer spending patterns. the global specialty apparel retail industry is highly competitive. we compete with national and local department stores, specialty and discount store chains, independent retail stores and internet businesses that market similar lines of merchandise. we face a variety of competitive challenges including: anticipating and quickly responding to changing consumer demands; maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to consumers in several diverse market segments; 8 table of contents developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors and styles that appeal to consumers of varying age groups and tastes; sourcing merchandise efficiently; competitively pricing our products and achieving customer perception of value; providing strong and effective marketing support; and maintaining high levels of consumer traffic. our business is sensitive to a number of factors that influence the levels of consumer spending, including political and economic conditions such as recessionary environments, the levels of disposable consumer income, consumer debt, interest rates and consumer confidence. declines in consumer spending on apparel and accessories could have an adverse effect on our operating results. we are also faced with competition in european, japanese and canadian markets from established regional and national chains. our success in these markets depends on determining a sustainable profit formula to build brand loyalty and gain market share in these especially challenging retail environments. if our international business is not successful or if we cannot effectively take advantage of international growth opportunities, our results of operations could be adversely affected. the market for prime real estate is competitive. our ability to effectively obtain real estate to open new stores depends upon the availability of real estate that meets our criteria, including traffic, square footage, co-tenancies, lease economics, demographics, and other factors, and our ability to negotiate terms that meet our financial targets. in addition, we must be able to effectively renew our existing store leases. failure to secure real estate locations adequate to meet annual targets, as well as effectively managing the profitability of our existing fleet of stores, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we experience fluctuations in our comparable store sales and margins. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to continue to further improve sales, as well as both gross margins and operating margins. our comparable store sales have fluctuated significantly in the past on an annual, quarterly and monthly basis, and we expect that they will continue to fluctuate in the future. for example, over the past three years, our quarterly comparable store sales have ranged from an increase of 7% in the first fiscal quarter of fiscal 2004 to a decrease of 9% in the first fiscal quarter of 2006. our comparable store sales in fiscal 2006 decreased 7% from fiscal 2005. a variety of factors affect comparable store sales, including fashion trends, competition, current economic conditions, the timing of release of new merchandise and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, the success of marketing programs and weather conditions. these factors may cause our comparable store sales results to differ materially from prior periods and from expectations. over the past five years our reported gross margins have ranged from a low of 34% in fiscal 2002 to 38% in fiscal 2003 to a high of 39% in fiscal 2004. in addition, over the past five years our reported operating margins have ranged from a low of 7% in fiscal 2002 to a high of 12% in fiscal 2004. our ability to deliver strong comparable store sales results and margins depends in large part on accurately forecasting demand and fashion trends, selecting effective marketing techniques, providing an appropriate mix of merchandise for our broad and diverse customer base, managing inventory effectively, using more effective pricing strategies, and optimizing store performance by closing under performing stores. failure to meet the expectations of investors, security analysts or credit rating agencies in one or more future periods could reduce the market price of our common stock and cause our credit ratings to decline. 9 table of contents changes in our credit ratings may have a negative or positive impact on our financing costs and structure in future periods. in november 2001, we issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of debt securities at an original annual interest rate of 8.80%, due december 15, 2008 (the notes ), of which only $138 million remained outstanding as of february 3, 2007. the interest rate payable on the notes is subject to adjustment from time to time if either moody investors service ( moody ) or standard &amp; poor rating service ( standard &amp; poor ) reduces the rating ascribed to the notes below baa2, in the case of moody s, or below bbb+, in the case of standard &amp; poor s. the interest rate on the notes increases by 0.25% for each rating category downgrade by either rating agency. in addition, if moody or standard &amp; poor subsequently increases the rating ascribed to the notes, the ongoing interest rate then payable on the notes decreases by 0.25% for each rating category upgrade by either rating agency up to baa2, in the case of moody s, or bbb+, in the case of standard &amp; poor s. in no event will the interest rate be reduced below the original interest rate payable on the notes. as a result of changes to our long-term credit ratings, the interest rate payable by us on the notes has varied from 8.80% to 10.55% per annum. the interest rate on the notes as of january 29, 2006 was 9.55%. on november 17, 2006, standard &amp; poor downgraded our long term credit rating to bb+ which increased the interest rate payable on the notes to 9.80% effective as of december 15, 2006. on february 5, 2007, moody downgraded our long term credit rating to ba1 which will increase the interest rate payable on the notes to 10.05% effective as of june 15, 2007. given our current credit ratings, we do not have meaningful access to the commercial paper market. any future reduction in our long-term senior unsecured credit rating could result in reduced access to the capital markets and higher interest costs on future financings. for further information on our credit rating including outlook see the section entitled debt and credit facility in our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations included as part ii, item 7. trade matters and it systems changes may disrupt our supply chain. we cannot predict whether any of the countries in which our merchandise currently is manufactured or may be manufactured in the future will be subject to additional trade restrictions imposed by the u.s. and other foreign governments, including the likelihood, type or effect of any such restrictions. trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, safeguards and customs restrictions, against apparel items, as well as u.s. or foreign labor strikes, work stoppages or boycotts, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of apparel available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. although the quota system established by the agreement on textiles and clothing was completely phased out for world trade organization countries effective january 1, 2005, there can be no assurances that restrictions will not be reestablished for certain categories in specific countries. we are unable to determine the impact of the changes to the quota system on our global sourcing operations, including china and vietnam. our sourcing operations may be adversely affected by trade limits or political and financial instability resulting in the disruption of trade from exporting countries, significant fluctuation in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies, restrictions on the transfer of funds and/or other trade disruptions. our success depends, in large part, on our ability to source and distribute merchandise efficiently. we continue to evaluate and are currently implementing modifications and upgrades to our information technology systems supporting the product pipeline, including merchandise planning and inventory management. modifications involve replacing legacy systems with successor systems or making changes to legacy systems. we are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing and changing these core systems, including accurately capturing data and possibly encountering supply chain disruptions, and believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through testing, training and staging implementation as well as ensuring appropriate commercial contracts are in place with third-party vendors supplying such replacement technologies. we have completed implementation of the perpetual and financial inventory system and have launched an initiative to replace our merchandise planning system, which will be rolled out in a phased approach over a two- to three-year 10 table of contents period, starting in 2007. although we are on track with the replacement of our systems, there can be no assurances that we will successfully launch these new systems as planned or that they will occur without supply chain or other disruptions. supply chain disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. we are implementing certain other changes to our it systems that may disrupt operations. in addition to modifying and replacing our systems related to merchandise planning and inventory management, we continue to evaluate and implement upgrades to our information technology systems for point of sales (cash registers), real estate, finance and human resources. upgrades involve replacing legacy systems with current and industry-accepted successor systems, making changes to legacy systems or cost-effectively acquiring new systems with new functionality. we are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing these systems, including accurately capturing data and system disruptions, and believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through testing, training and staging implementation as well as ensuring appropriate commercial contracts with third-party vendors supplying such replacement technologies are in place. the launch of these successor systems will take place in a phased approach over an approximate five to six year period that began in 2002. in 2004 we completed installation of our new point of sales system in all of our domestic stores, implemented our global financial systems, and replaced our lease management systems. in 2005 we introduced a new online platform, completed implementation of our perpetual and financial inventory system and implemented a new human resources/payroll system. in late fiscal 2005, we entered into an agreement with international business machines corporation (also see the following paragraph entitled our it services agreement with ibm could cause disruptions in our operations and an adverse effect on our financial results ). although we are on track with replacement of our systems, there can be no assurances that we will successfully launch the remaining systems as planned or that they will occur without disruptions to operations. information technology system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. our it services agreement with ibm could cause disruptions in our operations and an adverse effect on our financial results. in january 2006, we entered into a non-exclusive services agreement with international business machines corporation ( ibm ) under which ibm operates certain significant aspects of our information technology infrastructure that historically were operated by us, including technology services supporting our mainframe, server, network and data center, and store operations, as well as help desk, end user support, and some disaster recovery services. we started transitioning these services to ibm in march 2006 and completed the transition in late july 2006. in the period immediately following the completion of transition we experienced some delayed response to normal technology operation issues. as a result, process and procedural changes were made, which resulted in stable technology operations environment and no disruption during the peak holiday period, but there is no guarantee that we will not experience additional disruptions in the future as a result of this transition. under this agreement, we expect to continue to enhance the capabilities of and level of service realized from our technology infrastructure, while reducing the costs associated with these functions over time. however, our ability to realize the expected benefits of this arrangement is subject to various risks, some of which are not within our complete control. these risks include the risk that ibm will not be able to provide the anticipated levels of service on an ongoing basis or as our business changes over time, and the risk that ibm will be unable to maintain the security and integrity of the company data under the terms of the agreement. in addition, although there are certain pricing protections built into the services agreement, there is a risk that our costs under this arrangement, including the amounts that we are obligated to pay ibm, will exceed the costs that we would have incurred if we had not entered into this arrangement. we are unable to provide assurances that some or all of these risks will not occur, in particular, because we do not have experience outsourcing these aspects of our technology infrastructure. failure to effectively mitigate these risks if they occur could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. 11 table of contents our growth is dependent on strategy development. our ability to grow our existing brands and develop or identify new growth opportunities depends in part on our ability to appropriately identify, develop and effectively execute strategies and initiatives. failure to effectively identify, develop and execute strategies and initiatives may lead to increased operating costs without offsetting benefits and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our efforts to expand internationally through franchising and similar arrangements may not be successful and could impair the value of our brands. we entered into franchise agreements with unaffiliated franchisees to operate stores in singapore, malaysia, united arab emirates, kuwait, qatar, bahrain, oman, indonesia, and korea. under these agreements, third parties operate, or will operate, stores that sell apparel, purchased from us, under our brand names. prior to 2006, we had no experience operating through these types of third party arrangements, and we can provide no assurance that these arrangements will be successful. while we expect that this will be a small part of our business in the near future, we plan to continue to increase the number of countries in which we enter into these types of arrangements over time as part of our efforts to expand internationally. the effect of these arrangements on our business and results of operations is uncertain and will depend upon various factors, including the demand for our products in new markets internationally and our ability to successfully identify appropriate third parties to act as franchisees, distributors or in a similar capacity. in addition, certain aspects of these arrangements are not directly in our control, such as the ability of these third parties to meet their projections regarding store openings and sales. moreover, while the agreements we have entered into and plan to enter into in the future provide us with certain termination rights, to the extent that these third parties do not operate their stores in a manner consistent with our requirements regarding our brand identities and customer experience standards, the value of our brands could be impaired. failure to successfully expand internationally through franchising or similar arrangements, or a failure to protect the value of our brands, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 32 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we operate in foreign countries, which exposes us to market risk associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. our risk management policy is to hedge substantially all forecasted merchandise purchases for foreign operations using foreign exchange forward contracts. we also use forward contracts to hedge our market risk exposure associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations for certain intercompany loans and balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity holding or issuing the intercompany loan or balance. these contracts are entered into with large, reputable financial institutions, thereby minimizing the credit exposure from our counter-parties. the principal currencies hedged during fiscal 2006 were the euro, british pound, japanese yen, and canadian dollar. our use of derivative financial instruments represents risk management; we do not use derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. additional information is presented in note 6 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. we have performed a sensitivity analysis as of february 3, 2007 and january 28, 2006, based on a model that measures the change in fair values of our derivative financial instruments arising from a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in the level of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar with all other variables held constant. the analysis covers all foreign exchange derivative financial instruments offset by the underlying exposures. the foreign currency exchange rates used in the model were based on the spot rates in effect at february 3, 2007 and january 28, 2006. the sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10 percent adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would have had an unfavorable impact on the fair values of our foreign exchange derivative financial instruments, net of the underlying exposures, of $20 million at february 3, 2007 and $30 million at january 28, 2006. we hedge the net assets of certain international subsidiaries to offset the translation and economic exposures related to our investments in these subsidiaries. the change in fair value of the hedging instrument is reported in accumulated other comprehensive earnings (loss) within stockholders equity to offset the foreign currency translation adjustments on the investments. in addition, we used a cross-currency interest rate swap to swap the interest and principal payable of $50 million debt securities of our japanese subsidiary, gap (japan) kk, from a fixed interest rate of 6.25 percent, payable in u.s. dollars, to 6.1 billion japanese yen with a fixed interest rate of 2.43 percent. these debt securities are recorded on the consolidated balance sheets at their issuance amount, net of unamortized discount. the derivative instruments are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets at their fair value as of february 3, 2007. we have limited exposure to interest rate fluctuations on our borrowings. the interest on our long-term debt is set at a fixed coupon, with the exception of the interest rates payable by us on our outstanding $500 million notes due december 2008, of which only $138 million remains outstanding, which are subject to change based on our long-term senior secured credit ratings. the interest rates earned on our cash and equivalents will fluctuate in line with short-term interest rates. in march 2002, we issued $1.4 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.75 percent senior convertible notes due march 15, 2009 (the 2009 notes ), and received proceeds of $1.4 billion in cash, net of underwriting and other fees. on march 11, 2005, we called for the full redemption of the 2009 notes. the redemption was complete by march 31, 2005. note holders had the option to receive cash at a redemption price equal to 102.46 percent of the principal amount of the 2009 notes, plus accrued interest, for a total of approximately $1,027 per $1,000 principal amount of the 2009 notes. alternatively, note holders could elect to convert their 2009 notes into approximately 62.03 shares of the gap, inc. common stock per $1,000 principal amount. as of march 31, 2005, $1.4 billion of principal was converted into 85 million shares of the gap, inc. common stock and approximately $0.5 million was paid in cash redemption. in november 2001, we issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of debt securities at an original annual interest rate of 8.80 percent, due december 15, 2008 ( 2008 notes ). interest on the notes is payable 32 table of contents semi-annually, the note payable is subject to an increasing or decreasing rate of interest based on certain credit rating fluctuations. we repurchased $325 million of the 2008 notes during fiscal 2004 and $38 million in fiscal 2003. as a result of prior and current fiscal year changes to our long-term credit ratings, the interest payable by us on the 2008 notes was 9.80 percent per annum as of february 3, 2007. subsequent to year-end, our credit rating was further downgraded which will increase the interest payable by us to 10.05 percent per annum, effective on june 15, 2007. our access to the capital markets and interest expense on future financings is dependent on our senior unsecured debt rating. however, we do not expect this downgrade to have a material impact on our financial statements. see note 2 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. during fiscal 1997, we issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of debt securities, due september 15, 2007 (the 2007 notes ), with a fixed interest rate of 6.90 percent. interest on the 2007 notes is payable semi-annually. we repurchased $91 million of the 2007 notes during fiscal 2004 and $83 million in fiscal 2003. the 2007 notes are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets at their issuance amount net of repurchases and unamortized discount. a summary of our long-term debt and senior convertible notes is as follows: february 3, 2007 january 28, 2006 ($ in millions) carrying amount in u.s. dollars fair value (a) carrying amount in u.s. dollars fair value (a) $500 million notes payable, 6.90%, interest due semi-annually, due september 2007 $ $ $ 325 $ 329 $500 million notes payable, 8.80% (9.80%), interest due semi-annually, due december 2008 (b) 138 147 138 153 $50 million notes payable, 6.25%, interest due semi-annually, due march 2009 50 50 50 51 total long-term debt $ 188 $ 197 $ 513 $ 533 (a) based on the face amount multiplied by the market price of the note as of february 3, 2007 and january 28, 2006. (b) the interest rate payable on these notes is subject to increase (decrease) by 0.25 percent for each rating downgrade (upgrade) by the rating agencies. the rate in parentheses reflects the rate at february 3, 2007. in no event will the interest rate be reduced below the original interest rate on the note. 33 table of contentsrisk factors 8 risk factors our past performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance because actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below. in addition, historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. we must successfully gauge fashion trends and changing consumer preferences to succeed. our success is largely dependent upon our ability to gauge the fashion tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand in a timely manner. the global specialty retail business fluctuates according to changes in consumer preferences dictated, in part, by fashion and season. to the extent we misjudge the market for our merchandise or the products suitable for local markets, our sales will be adversely affected and the markdowns required to move the resulting excess inventory will adversely affect our operating results. some of our past product offerings have not been well received by our broad and diverse customer base. merchandise misjudgments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to changing fashion trends depends in part on our ability to attract and retain key personnel in our design, merchandising, marketing and other functions. competition for this personnel is intense, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel in future periods. fluctuations in the global specialty retail business especially affect the inventory owned by apparel retailers, since merchandise usually must be ordered well in advance of the season and frequently before fashion trends are evidenced by customer purchases. in addition, the cyclical nature of the global specialty retail business requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory, especially prior to peak back-to-school and holiday selling seasons when we build up our inventory levels. we must enter into contracts for the purchase and manufacture of merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season. as a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to suboptimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. in the past, we have not always predicted our customers preferences and acceptance levels of our fashion items with accuracy. in addition, lead times for many of our purchases are long, which may make it more difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing fashion trends or consumer acceptance for our products. if sales do not meet expectations, too much inventory may cause excessive markdowns and, therefore, lower than planned margins. our business is highly competitive and depends on consumer spending patterns. the global specialty apparel retail industry is highly competitive. we compete with national and local department stores, specialty and discount store chains, independent retail stores and internet businesses that market similar lines of merchandise. we face a variety of competitive challenges including: anticipating and quickly responding to changing consumer demands; maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to consumers in several diverse market segments; developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors and styles that appeal to consumers of varying age groups and tastes; sourcing merchandise efficiently; competitively pricing our products and achieving customer perception of value; 8 gap inc. form 10-k table of contents providing strong and effective marketing support; and attracting consumer traffic. our business is sensitive to a number of factors that influence the levels of consumer spending, including political and economic conditions such as recessionary environments, the levels of disposable consumer income, consumer debt, interest rates and consumer confidence. declines in consumer spending on apparel and accessories could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. we are also faced with competition in european, japanese and canadian markets from established regional and national chains. our success in these markets depends on determining a sustainable profit formula to build brand loyalty and gain market share in these challenging retail environments. if our international business is not successful or if we cannot effectively take advantage of international growth opportunities, our results of operations could be adversely affected. the market for prime real estate is competitive. our ability to effectively obtain real estate to open new stores depends upon the availability of real estate that meets our criteria for traffic, square footage, co-tenancies, lease economics, demographics, and other factors, including our ability to negotiate terms that meet our financial targets. in addition, we must be able to effectively renew our existing store leases. failure to secure real estate locations adequate to meet annual targets, as well as effectively managing the profitability of our existing fleet of stores, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we experience fluctuations in our comparable store sales and margins. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to improve sales, as well as both gross margins and operating margins. a variety of factors affect comparable store sales, including fashion trends, competition, current economic conditions, the timing of release of new merchandise and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, the success of marketing programs and weather conditions. these factors may cause our comparable store sales results to differ materially from prior periods and from expectations. our comparable store sales have fluctuated significantly in the past on an annual, quarterly and monthly basis. more recently, over the past three years, our comparable store sales figures have been negative year over year as demonstrated by a decrease of five percent in fiscal 2005, a decrease of seven percent in fiscal 2006, and a decrease of four percent in fiscal 2007. over the past five years, our reported gross margins have ranged from a high of 39 percent in fiscal 2004 to a low of 36 percent in fiscal 2006. in addition, over the past five years, our reported operating margins have ranged from a low of 8 percent in fiscal 2006 to a high of 12 percent in fiscal 2004. our ability to deliver strong comparable store sales results and margins depends, in large part, on accurately forecasting demand and fashion trends, selecting effective marketing techniques, providing an appropriate mix of merchandise for our broad and diverse customer base, managing inventory effectively, using more effective pricing strategies, and optimizing store performance by closing under performing stores. failure to meet the expectations of investors, security analysts or credit rating agencies in one or more future periods could reduce the market price of our common stock and cause our credit ratings to decline. changes in our credit ratings may limit our access to the capital market. as a result of changes to our long-term credit ratings, we do not have meaningful access to the commercial paper market. although we believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments combined with future cash flow from our operations will be adequate to satisfy our capital needs for the foreseeable future, we may require additional cash for unexpected contingencies. gap inc. form 10-k 9 table of contents the interest on our $500 million notes payable due december 2008, of which only $138 million remains outstanding, is subject to increase or decrease by 0.25 percent for each rating downgrade or upgrade, respectively, of our long-term senior unsecured debt ratings by rating agencies. the interest rate on the notes was 10.05 percent per annum as of february 2, 2008. any future reduction in our long-term senior unsecured credit rating could result in reduced access to the capital markets and higher interest costs on future financings. for further information on our debt and credit facilities see the sections entitled debt and credit facilities in our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations included as part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. trade matters may disrupt our supply chain. we cannot predict whether any of the countries in which our merchandise currently is manufactured or may be manufactured in the future will be subject to additional trade restrictions imposed by the u.s. and other foreign governments, including the likelihood, type or effect of any such restrictions. trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, safeguards and customs restrictions, against apparel items, as well as u.s. or foreign labor strikes, work stoppages or boycotts, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of apparel available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. although the quota system established by the agreement on textiles and clothing was phased out for world trade organization countries effective january 1, 2005, the u.s. and china agreed to continue with safeguards on textiles and apparel in china through december 31, 2008. there can be no assurances that additional restrictions will not be reestablished for certain categories in specific countries. we are unable to determine the impact of the changes to the quota system on our global sourcing operations, including china and vietnam. our sourcing operations may be adversely affected by trade limits or political and financial instability resulting in the disruption of trade from exporting countries, significant fluctuation in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies, restrictions on the transfer of funds and/or other trade disruptions. updates or changes to our it systems may disrupt operations. we continue to evaluate and implement upgrades to our information technology systems. upgrades involve replacing existing systems with successor systems, making changes to existing systems or cost-effectively acquiring new systems with new functionality. we are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing these systems, including accurately capturing data and system disruptions, and believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through testing, training and staging implementation as well as ensuring appropriate commercial contracts with third-party vendors supplying such replacement technologies are in place. for example, in fiscal 2007, we implemented the first phase of our new merchandise planning system. the new merchandise planning system will be rolled out to our domestic operations in fiscal 2008 and 2009. although we are on track with replacement or upgrade of our systems, there can be no assurances that we will successfully launch these systems as planned or that they will occur without disruptions to operations. information technology system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our it services agreement with ibm could cause disruptions in our operations and an adverse effect on our financial results. we have entered into the third year of a ten-year non-exclusive services agreement with ibm under which ibm operates certain significant aspects of our information technology infrastructure, including supporting our mainframe, server, network and data center, and store operations, as well as help desk, end user support, and some disaster recovery. under this agreement, we expect to continue to enhance the capabilities of and level of service realized from our technology infrastructure, while reducing the costs associated with these functions over 10 gap inc. form 10-k table of contents time. however, our ability to realize the expected benefits of this arrangement is subject to various risks, some of which are not within our complete control. these risks include disruption in services, the inability to quickly respond to changes in technology, and the failure to protect the security and integrity of the company data under the terms of the agreement. we are unable to provide assurances that some or all of these risks will not occur. failure to effectively mitigate these risks if they occur could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. however, we are actively managing the framework of the agreement to align it with our evolving business needs, which include financial benchmarking, in-sourcing, and adjusting service levels as appropriate. our efforts to expand internationally through franchising and similar arrangements may not be successful and could impair the value of our brands. we entered into franchise agreements with unaffiliated franchisees to operate stores in asia, europe and the middle east. under these agreements, third parties operate, or will operate, stores that sell apparel, purchased from us, under our brand names. prior to fiscal 2006, we had no experience operating through these types of third-party arrangements, and we can provide no assurance that these arrangements will be successful. while we expect that this will be a small part of our business in the near future, we plan to continue to increase the number of countries in which we enter into these types of arrangements over time as part of our efforts to expand internationally. the effect of these arrangements on our business and results of operations is uncertain and will depend upon various factors, including the demand for our products in new markets internationally and our ability to successfully identify appropriate third parties to act as franchisees, distributors or in a similar capacity. in addition, certain aspects of these arrangements are not directly in our control, such as the ability of these third parties to meet their projections regarding store openings and sales. moreover, while the agreements we have entered into and plan to enter into in the future provide us with certain termination rights, to the extent that these third parties do not operate their stores in a manner consistent with our requirements regarding our brand identities and customer experience standards, the value of our brands could be impaired. failure to successfully expand internationally through franchising or similar arrangements, or a failure to protect the value of our brands or any other acts or omissions by a franchisee, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or our reputation. our products are subject to risks associated with overseas sourcing and manufacturing. independent third parties manufacture the majority of our products for us. if we experience significant increases in demand, or need to replace an existing vendor, there can be no assurance that additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, or that any vendor would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. in addition, even if we are able to expand existing or find new manufacturing sources, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train our vendors in our methods, products, quality control standards, and labor, health and safety standards. moreover, in the event of a significant disruption in the supply of the fabrics or raw materials used by our vendors in the manufacture of our products, our vendors might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price, or at all. any delays, interruption or increased costs in the manufacture of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet retail customer and consumer demand for our products and result in lower revenues and net earnings both in the short and long term. because independent vendors manufacture the majority of our products outside of our principal sales markets, our products must be transported by third parties over large geographic distances. delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion, or other factors, and costs and delays associated with transitioning between vendors, could adversely impact our financial performance. manufacturing delays or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as aircraft, which could adversely affect our profit margins. in addition, the cost of fuel is a significant component in transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our profit margins. gap inc. form 10-k 11 table of contents failure of our vendors to adhere to our code of vendor conduct could harm our business. we purchase nearly all merchandise from third-party vendors outside of the united states and require those vendors to adhere to a code of vendor conduct and other environmental, health, and safety standards for the benefit of workers. from time to time, contractors may not be in compliance with these standards or applicable local laws. significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more contractors could have a negative impact on our reputation and a material adverse effect on our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 33 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we operate in foreign countries, which exposes us to market risk associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. our risk management policy is to hedge a significant portion of forecasted merchandise purchases for foreign operations and forecasted royalty payments using foreign exchange forward contracts. we also use forward contracts to hedge our market risk exposure associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations for certain intercompany loans and balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity holding or issuing the intercompany loan or balance. these contracts are entered into with large, reputable financial institutions, which are monitored for counterparty risk. the principal currencies hedged during fiscal 2007 were the euro, british pound, japanese yen, and canadian dollar. our use of derivative financial instruments represents risk management; we do not use derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. additional information is presented in note 7 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. we also use forward contracts to hedge the net assets of an international subsidiary to offset the translation and economic exposures related to our investment in that subsidiary. the change in fair value of the forward contracts is reported in accumulated other comprehensive earnings within stockholders equity to offset the foreign currency translation adjustments on the investment. we have performed a sensitivity analysis as of february 2, 2008 and february 3, 2007, based on a model that measures the impact of a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in the level of foreign currency exchange rates to the u.s. dollar (with all other variables held constant) on our underlying exposure, net of derivative financial instruments. the foreign currency exchange rates used in the model were based on the spot rates in effect at february 2, 2008 and february 3, 2007. the sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10 percent adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would have had an unfavorable impact on the underlying cash flow exposure, net of our foreign exchange derivative financial instruments, of $37 million at february 2, 2008 and $20 million at february 3, 2007. we have limited exposure to interest rate fluctuations on our borrowings. we use a cross-currency interest rate swap to swap the interest and principal payable of $50 million debt securities of our japanese subsidiary, gap (japan) kk, due march 2009, from a fixed interest rate of 6.25 percent, payable in u.s. dollars, to 6.1 billion japanese yen with a fixed interest rate of 2.43 percent. these debt securities are recorded on the consolidated balance sheets at their issuance amount, net of unamortized discount. the fair value of this long-term debt was $51 million and $50 million as of february 2, 2008 and february 3, 2007, respectively. the interest on our $500 million notes payable due december 2008, of which only $138 million remains outstanding, is subject to increase (decrease) by 0.25 percent for each rating downgrade (upgrade) of our long-term senior unsecured debt ratings by rating agencies. the interest payable by us on the notes was 10.05 percent per annum as of february 2, 2008. the fair value of the notes payable as of february 2, 2008 and february 3, 2007 was $144 million and $147 million, respectively. in addition, we have fixed and variable income investments classified as cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. primarily all securities held are u.s. government and agency securities, domestic commercial paper, and bank securities and are stated at amortized cost, which approximates fair market value due to the short maturities of these instruments. an increase in interest rates of 10 percent would not have a material impact on the value of these investments. however, declines in interest rates would decrease the interest income derived from our investments. we earned interest income of $117 million, $131 million, and $93 million in fiscal 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. gap inc. form 10-k 33 table of contentsrisk factors 7 risk factors. our past performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance because actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties discussed below. in addition, historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. the recent changes in general economic conditions, and the impact on consumer confidence and consumer spending, could adversely impact our results of operations. the company performance is subject to general economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer confidence and consumer spending. recently, consumer confidence and consumer spending have deteriorated 7 table of contents significantly, and could remain depressed for an extended period. some of the factors influencing this deterioration include fluctuating interest rates and credit availability, fluctuating fuel and other energy costs, fluctuating commodity prices, higher levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, reductions in net worth based on market declines, home foreclosures and reductions in home values, and general uncertainty regarding the overall future economic environment. consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, generally decline during periods when disposable income is adversely affected or there is economic uncertainty, and this has recently adversely impacted, and could in the future adversely impact, our results of operations. our business is highly competitive and depends on consumer spending patterns. the global specialty apparel retail industry is highly competitive. we compete with national and local department stores, specialty and discount store chains, independent retail stores and online businesses that market similar lines of merchandise. we face a variety of competitive challenges including: attracting consumer traffic; sourcing merchandise efficiently; competitively pricing our products and achieving customer perception of value; anticipating and quickly responding to changing consumer demands; maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to consumers in several diverse market segments; developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors and styles that appeal to consumers of varying age groups and tastes; and providing strong and effective marketing support. our business is sensitive to a number of factors that influence the levels of consumer spending, including political and economic conditions such as recessionary environments, levels of employment, levels of disposable consumer income, consumer debt, interest rates, and consumer confidence. declines in consumer confidence and spending on apparel and accessories could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. we are also faced with competition in european, japanese, and canadian markets from established regional and national chains, and our franchisees face significant competition in the markets in which they operate. if our international business is not successful or if we cannot effectively take advantage of international growth opportunities, our results of operations could be adversely affected. the market for prime real estate is competitive. our ability to effectively obtain real estate to open new stores depends upon the availability of real estate that meets our criteria for traffic, square footage, co-tenancies, lease economics, demographics, and other factors, including our ability to negotiate terms that meet our financial targets. in addition, we must be able to effectively renew our existing store leases. failure to secure real estate locations adequate to meet annual targets, as well as effectively managing the profitability of our existing fleet of stores, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, the current economic environment may make it difficult to determine the fair market rent of retail real estate properties within the united states and internationally. this could impact the quality of our decisions to exercise lease options at previously negotiated rents, and the quality of our decisions to renew expiring leases at negotiated rents. any adverse effect on the quality of these decisions could impact our ability to retain real estate locations adequate to meet annual targets or efficiently manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 8 g ap i nc . f orm 10-k table of contents we must successfully gauge fashion trends and changing consumer preferences to succeed. our success is largely dependent upon our ability to gauge the fashion tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand in a timely manner. the global specialty retail business fluctuates according to changes in consumer preferences dictated, in part, by fashion and season. to the extent we misjudge the market for our merchandise or the products suitable for local markets, our sales will be adversely affected and the markdowns required to move the resulting excess inventory will adversely affect our operating results. some of our past product offerings have not been well received by our broad and diverse customer base. merchandise misjudgments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to changing fashion trends depends in part on our ability to attract and retain key personnel in our design, merchandising, marketing, and other functions. competition for this personnel is intense, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel in future periods. fluctuations in the global specialty retail business especially affect the inventory owned by apparel retailers, since merchandise usually must be ordered well in advance of the season and frequently before fashion trends are evidenced by customer purchases. in addition, the cyclical nature of the global specialty retail business requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory, especially prior to the peak holiday selling season when we build up our inventory levels. we must enter into contracts for the purchase and manufacture of merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season. as a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to suboptimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. in the past, we have not always predicted our customers preferences and acceptance levels of our fashion items with accuracy. in addition, lead times for many of our purchases are long, which may make it more difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing fashion trends or consumer acceptance for our products. if sales do not meet expectations, too much inventory may cause excessive markdowns and, therefore, lower than planned margins. we experience fluctuations in our comparable store sales and margins. our success depends, in part, upon our ability to improve sales. a variety of factors affect comparable store sales, including fashion trends, competition, current economic conditions, the timing of release of new merchandise and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, the success of marketing programs, and weather conditions. these factors may cause our comparable store sales results to differ materially from prior periods and from expectations. our comparable store sales have fluctuated significantly in the past on an annual, quarterly and monthly basis. more recently, over the past three years, our comparable store sales figures have been negative year over year as demonstrated by a decrease of seven percent in fiscal 2006, a decrease of four percent in fiscal 2007, and a decrease of twelve percent in fiscal 2008. over the past five years, our reported gross margins have ranged from a high of 39 percent in fiscal 2004 to a low of 36 percent in fiscal 2006. in addition, over the past five years, our reported operating margins have ranged from a high of twelve percent in fiscal 2004 to a low of eight percent in fiscal 2006. our ability to deliver strong comparable store sales results and margins depends, in large part, on accurately forecasting demand and fashion trends, selecting effective marketing techniques, providing an appropriate mix of merchandise for our broad and diverse customer base, managing inventory effectively, using effective pricing strategies, and optimizing store performance. failure to meet the expectations of investors, security analysts, or credit rating agencies in one or more future periods could reduce the market price of our common stock and cause our credit ratings to decline. changes in our credit profile or further deterioration in market conditions may limit our access to the capital markets. although we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents combined with future cash flow from our operations will be adequate to satisfy our capital needs for the foreseeable future, we may require additional cash for unexpected contingencies. 9 table of contents the current unfavorable financial market conditions have resulted in diminished availability of external funding and increased the related costs. there can be no assurance that our current levels of liquidity will continue or that our ability to access the credit or capital markets will not be adversely affected by changes in the financial markets and the global economy. due to our long-term credit ratings, we do not have meaningful access to the commercial paper market. any future reduction in our long-term senior unsecured credit rating could result in reduced access to the credit and capital markets and higher interest costs on future financings. we repaid our $50 million, 6.25 percent notes payable in march 2009. the company now has no debt. as a result, moody has withdrawn its credit ratings. as of january 31, 2009, the company had $1.8 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash. for further information on our debt and credit facilities see the sections entitled debt and credit facilities in our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations included as part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. trade matters may disrupt our supply chain. trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, safeguards, and customs restrictions against apparel items, as well as u.s. or foreign labor strikes, work stoppages or boycotts, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of apparel available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we cannot predict whether any of the countries in which our merchandise currently is manufactured or may be manufactured in the future will be subject to additional trade restrictions imposed by the u.s. and other foreign governments, including the likelihood, type or effect of any such restrictions. for example, the quota system established by the agreement on textiles and clothing was phased out for world trade organization countries and the u.s.-china textile and apparel agreement expired on december 31, 2008, but there are no assurances that additional restrictions will not be reestablished for certain categories in specific countries. moreover, with the disappearance of quotas, the possibility of anti-dumping or countervailing duties lawsuits from u.s. domestic producers against importers increases. we are unable to determine the impact of the changes to the quota system or the impact that potential tariff lawsuits could have on our global sourcing operations. our sourcing operations may be adversely affected by trade limits or political and financial instability resulting in the disruption of trade from exporting countries, significant fluctuation in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies, restrictions on the transfer of funds, and/or other trade disruptions. updates or changes to our it systems may disrupt operations. we continue to evaluate and implement upgrades to our it systems. upgrades involve replacing existing systems with successor systems, making changes to existing systems or cost-effectively acquiring new systems with new functionality. we are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing these systems, including accurately capturing data and system disruptions, and believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through testing, training, and staging implementation as well as ensuring appropriate commercial contracts with third-party vendors supplying such replacement technologies are in place. although we are on track with the replacement or upgrade of our systems, there can be no assurances that we will successfully launch these systems as planned or that they will occur without disruptions to our operations. it system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our it services agreement with ibm could cause disruptions in our operations and have an adverse effect on our financial results. we have entered into the fourth year of a ten-year non-exclusive services agreement with ibm under which ibm operates certain significant aspects of our information technology infrastructure. under the original agreement, this included supporting our mainframe, server, network and data center, and store operations, as well as help desk, end user support, and some disaster recovery. the agreement was amended effective march 2, 2009 to return to us certain services originally performed by ibm under the agreement. these returned services include services related to management of our server and data center environment, along with disaster recovery. all other 10 g ap i nc . f orm 10-k table of contents services remain with ibm per the original agreement. our ability to realize the expected benefits of this arrangement is subject to various risks, some of which are not within our complete control. these risks include, but are not limited to, disruption in services, and the failure to protect the security and integrity of the company data under the terms of the agreement. we are unable to provide assurances that some or all of these risks will not occur. failure to effectively mitigate these risks if they occur could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. our efforts to expand internationally through franchising and similar arrangements may not be successful and could impair the value of our brands. we have entered into franchise agreements with unaffiliated franchisees to operate stores in many countries around the world. under these agreements, third parties operate, or will operate, stores that sell apparel, purchased from us, under our brand names. prior to fiscal 2006, we had no experience operating through these types of third-party arrangements, and we can provide no assurance that these arrangements will be successful. while we expect that this will be a small part of our business in the near future, we plan to continue to increase these types of arrangements over time as part of our efforts to expand internationally. the effect of these arrangements on our business and results of operations is uncertain and will depend upon various factors, including the demand for our products in new markets internationally and our ability to successfully identify appropriate third parties to act as franchisees, distributors, or in a similar capacity. in addition, certain aspects of these arrangements are not directly within our control, such as the ability of these third parties to meet their projections regarding store openings and sales. other risks that may affect these third parties include general economic conditions in specific countries or markets, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, and political instability. moreover, while the agreements we have entered into and plan to enter into in the future provide us with certain termination rights, to the extent that these third parties do not operate their stores in a manner consistent with our requirements regarding our brand identities and customer experience standards, the value of our brands could be impaired. a failure to protect the value of our brands or any other harmful acts or omissions by a franchisee, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation. our products are subject to risks associated with overseas sourcing and manufacturing. the current unfavorable economic conditions, including the reduced ability to access credit, is having an adverse impact on businesses around the world, and its impact on our vendors cannot be predicted. vendors reduced ability to access sources of capital could lead to their failure to deliver merchandise and could reduce the supply of apparel available to us, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. independent third parties manufacture nearly all of our products for us. if we experience significant increases in demand, or need to replace an existing vendor, there can be no assurance that additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, or that any vendor would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. in addition, even if we are able to expand existing or find new manufacturing sources, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train our vendors in our methods, products, quality control standards, and environmental, labor, health, and safety standards. moreover, in the event of a significant disruption in the supply of the fabrics or raw materials used by our vendors in the manufacture of our products, our vendors might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price, or at all. any delays, interruption, or increased costs in the manufacture of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet consumer demand for our products and result in lower sales and net earnings. because independent vendors manufacture nearly all of our products outside of our principal sales markets, our products must be transported by third parties over large geographic distances. delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion, or other factors, and costs and delays associated with transitioning between vendors, could adversely impact our financial performance. manufacturing delays or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as aircraft, which could adversely affect our profit margins. in addition, the cost of fuel is a significant component in transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our profit margins. 11 table of contents failure of our vendors to adhere to our code of vendor conduct could harm our business. we purchase nearly all merchandise from third-party vendors outside of the united states and require those vendors to adhere to a code of vendor conduct and other environmental, labor, health, and safety standards for the benefit of workers. from time to time, contractors may not be in compliance with these standards or applicable local laws. significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more contractors could have a negative impact on our reputation and an adverse effect on our results of operations. changes in the regulatory or administrative landscape could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. laws and regulations at both the state and federal levels frequently change and the ultimate cost of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. in addition, we cannot predict the impact that may result from the changes in the federal regulatory or administrative landscape under the obama administration. any changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations, or the enactment of any new legislation under the obama administration that impacts employment/labor, trade, product safety, transportation/logistics, health care, tax, privacy, or environmental issues could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we operate in foreign countries, which exposes us to market risk associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. our risk management policy is to hedge a significant portion of forecasted merchandise purchases for foreign operations and forecasted royalty payments using foreign exchange forward contracts. we also use forward contracts to hedge our market risk exposure associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations for certain intercompany loans and balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity holding or issuing the intercompany loan or balance. these contracts are entered into with large, reputable financial institutions, which are monitored for counterparty risk. the principal currencies hedged during fiscal 2008 were u.s. dollars, euro, british pounds, japanese yen, and canadian dollars. our use of derivative financial instruments represents risk management; we do not use derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. additional information is presented in note 8 of notes to the consolidated financial statements. the derivative financial instruments are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets at their fair value as of the balance sheet dates. we have performed a sensitivity analysis as of january 31, 2009 and february 2, 2008, based on a model that measures the impact of a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in the level of foreign currency exchange rates to u.s. dollars (with all other variables held constant) on our underlying exposure, net of derivative financial instruments. the foreign currency exchange rates used in the model were based on the spot rates in effect at january 31, 2009 and february 2, 2008. the sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10 percent adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would have had an unfavorable impact on the underlying cash flow exposure, net of our foreign exchange derivative financial instruments, of $34 million at january 31, 2009 and $37 million at february 2, 2008. we do not have significant exposure to interest rate fluctuations on our borrowings. we use a cross-currency interest rate swap to swap the interest and principal payable of the $50 million debt of our japanese subsidiary, gap (japan) kk, from a fixed interest rate of 6.25 percent, payable in u.s. dollars, to 6.1 billion japanese yen with a fixed interest rate of 2.43 percent. this debt was repaid in march 2009. the fair value of this debt was $49 million and $51 million as of january 31, 2009 and february 2, 2008, respectively and classified as current maturities of long-term debt on the consolidated balance sheet as of january 31, 2009. in connection with the repayment of $50 million related to the maturity of this debt, we settled the corresponding cross-currency interest rate swap in march 2009. in addition, we invest in fixed and variable income investments classified as cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments. our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments are placed primarily in treasury and prime money market funds, domestic commercial paper, and bank securities. our cash equivalents and short-term investments are stated at amortized cost, which approximates fair market value due to the short maturities of these instruments. an increase in interest rates of 10 percent would not have a material impact on the value of these investments. however, changes in interest rates would impact the interest income derived from our investments. we earned interest income of $37 million, $117 million, and $131 million in fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. 34 g ap i nc . f orm 10-k table of contentsrisk factors 7 risk factors. our past performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance because actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to the risks and uncertainties discussed below. in addition, historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. general economic conditions and the impact on consumer spending patterns could adversely impact our results of operations. the company performance is subject to general economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending. consumer spending has declined recently and could remain depressed for an extended period. some of 7 table of contents the factors influencing consumer spending include fluctuating interest rates and credit availability, fluctuating fuel and other energy costs, fluctuating commodity prices, higher levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, reductions in net worth based on market declines, home foreclosures and reductions in home values, and general uncertainty regarding the overall future economic environment. consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, generally decline during periods when disposable income is adversely affected or there is economic uncertainty, and such conditions could adversely impact our results of operations. our business is highly competitive. the global specialty apparel retail industry is highly competitive. we compete with local, national, and global department stores, specialty and discount store chains, independent retail stores, and online businesses that market similar lines of merchandise. we face a variety of competitive challenges including: attracting consumer traffic; sourcing merchandise efficiently; competitively pricing our products and achieving customer perception of value; anticipating and quickly responding to changing fashion trends and consumer demands; maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to consumers in several diverse market segments; developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors, and styles that appeal to consumers of varying age groups and tastes; and providing strong and effective marketing support. in addition, our franchisees face significant competition in the markets in which they operate. if we or our franchisees are not able to compete successfully in the united states or internationally, our results of operations could be adversely affected. the market for prime real estate is competitive. our ability to effectively obtain real estate to open new stores nationally and internationally depends on the availability of real estate that meets our criteria for traffic, square footage, co-tenancies, lease economics, demographics, and other factors, including our ability to negotiate terms that meet our financial targets. we also must be able to effectively renew our existing store leases. in addition, we recently have been seeking to downsize, consolidate, reposition, or close some of our real estate locations, which in some cases requires a modification of an existing store lease. failure to secure adequate new locations or successfully modify existing locations, or failure to effectively manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, the current economic environment may make it difficult to determine the fair market rent of retail real estate properties within the united states and internationally. this could impact the quality of our decisions to exercise lease options at previously negotiated rents and the quality of our decisions to renew expiring leases at negotiated rents. any adverse effect on the quality of these decisions could impact our ability to retain real estate locations adequate to meet annual targets or efficiently manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we must successfully gauge fashion trends and changing consumer preferences to succeed. our success is largely dependent upon our ability to gauge the fashion tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand in a timely manner. the global specialty retail business fluctuates according to changes in consumer preferences, dictated in part by fashion and season. to the extent we misjudge the market for our merchandise or the products suitable for local markets, our sales will be adversely affected, and 8 g ap i nc . f orm 10-k table of contents the markdowns required to move the resulting excess inventory will adversely affect our operating results. some of our past product offerings have not been well received by our broad and diverse customer base. merchandise misjudgments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to changing fashion trends depends in part on our ability to attract and retain key personnel in our design, merchandising, marketing, and other functions. competition for this personnel is intense, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel in future periods. fluctuations in the global specialty retail business especially affect the inventory owned by apparel retailers, as merchandise usually must be ordered well in advance of the season and frequently before fashion trends are evidenced by customer purchases. in addition, the cyclical nature of the global specialty retail business requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory, especially prior to the peak holiday selling season when we build up our inventory levels. we must enter into contracts for the purchase and manufacture of merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season. as a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to suboptimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. in the past, we have not always predicted our customers preferences and acceptance levels of our fashion items with accuracy. in addition, lead times for many of our purchases are long, which may make it more difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing fashion trends or consumer acceptance of our products. if sales do not meet expectations, too much inventory may cause excessive markdowns, and therefore, lower than planned margins. we experience fluctuations in our comparable store sales and margins. our success depends in part on our ability to improve sales, in particular at our largest brands. a variety of factors affect comparable store sales, including fashion trends, competition, current economic conditions, the timing of new merchandise releases and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, the success of marketing programs, and weather conditions. these factors may cause our comparable store sales results to differ materially from prior periods and from expectations. our comparable store sales have fluctuated significantly in the past on an annual, quarterly, and monthly basis. more recently, over the past three years, our comparable store sales figures have been negative year over year as demonstrated by a decrease of 4 percent in fiscal 2007, a decrease of 12 percent in fiscal 2008, and a decrease of 3 percent in fiscal 2009. over the past five years, our reported gross margins have ranged from a high of 40 percent in fiscal 2009 to a low of 36 percent in fiscal 2006. in addition, over the past five years, our reported operating margins have ranged from a high of 13 percent in fiscal 2009 to a low of 8 percent in fiscal 2006. our ability to deliver strong comparable store sales results and margins depends in large part on accurately forecasting demand and fashion trends, selecting effective marketing techniques, providing an appropriate mix of merchandise for our broad and diverse customer base, managing inventory effectively, using effective pricing strategies, and optimizing store performance. failure to meet the expectations of investors, securities analysts, or credit rating agencies in one or more future periods could reduce the market price of our common stock and cause our credit ratings to decline. changes in our credit profile or deterioration in market conditions may limit our access to the capital markets. although we believe our existing cash and cash equivalents combined with future cash flow from our operations will be adequate to satisfy our capital needs for the foreseeable future, we may require additional cash for unexpected contingencies. there can be no assurance that our current levels of liquidity will continue or that our ability to access the credit or capital markets will not be adversely affected by changes in the financial markets and the global economy. due to our long-term credit ratings, we do not have meaningful access to the commercial paper market. any future reduction in our long-term senior unsecured credit rating could result in reduced access to the credit and capital markets and higher interest costs on future financings. 9 table of contents as of january 30, 2010, the company had no debt outstanding and $2.6 billion in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. for further information on our credit facilities, see the section entitled credit facilities in our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations included as part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. trade matters may disrupt our supply chain. trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, safeguards, and customs restrictions against apparel items, as well as u.s. or foreign labor strikes, work stoppages, or boycotts, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of apparel available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we cannot predict whether any of the countries in which our merchandise currently is manufactured or may be manufactured in the future will be subject to additional trade restrictions imposed by the u.s. and other foreign governments, including the likelihood, type, or effect of any such restrictions. in addition, we face the possibility of anti-dumping or countervailing duties lawsuits from u.s. domestic producers. we are unable to determine the impact of the changes to the quota system or the impact that potential tariff lawsuits could have on our global sourcing operations. our sourcing operations may be adversely affected by trade limits or political and financial instability, resulting in the disruption of trade from exporting countries, significant fluctuation in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies, restrictions on the transfer of funds, and/or other trade disruptions. updates or changes to our it systems may disrupt operations. we continue to evaluate and implement upgrades to our it systems. upgrades involve replacing existing systems with successor systems, making changes to existing systems, or cost-effectively acquiring new systems with new functionality. we are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing these systems, including accurately capturing data and system disruptions, and believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through testing, training, and staging implementation, as well as ensuring appropriate commercial contracts are in place with third-party vendors supplying such replacement technologies. however, there can be no assurances that we will successfully launch these systems as planned or that they will occur without disruptions to our operations. it system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, or failure to successfully implement new or upgraded systems, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our it services agreement with ibm could cause disruptions in our operations and have an adverse effect on our financial results. we have entered into the fifth year of a ten-year non-exclusive services agreement with international business machines corporation ( ibm ) under which ibm operates certain significant aspects of our it infrastructure. under the original agreement, this included supporting our mainframe, server, network and data center, and store operations, as well as help desk, end user support, and some disaster recovery. the agreement was amended effective march 2, 2009 to return to us certain services originally performed by ibm under the agreement. these returned services include services related to management of our server and data center environment, along with disaster recovery. all other services remain with ibm per the original agreement. our ability to realize the expected benefits of this arrangement is subject to various risks, some of which are not within our complete control. these risks include, but are not limited to, disruption in services and the failure to protect the security and integrity of the company data under the terms of the agreement. we are unable to provide assurances that some or all of these risks will not occur. failure to effectively mitigate these risks, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. our efforts to expand internationally may not be successful and could impair the value of our brands. our current strategies include international expansion in a number of countries around the world through a number of channels and brands. for example, we currently plan to open additional gap stores in europe and our first gap stores in china, expand banana republic in europe, open additional outlet stores in canada, europe, and 10 g ap i nc . f orm 10-k table of contents asia, and begin offering online sales internationally, including in canada and a number of european countries. we do not have any experience operating in a number of these countries, and we have no experience offering online sales internationally. in many of these countries, we face major, established competitors. in addition, in many of these countries, the real estate, employment and labor, transportation and logistics, and other operating requirements differ dramatically from those in the places where we have experience. moreover, consumer tastes and trends may differ in many of these countries, and as a result, the sales of our products may not be successful or result in the margins we anticipate. if our international expansion plans are unsuccessful or do not deliver an appropriate return on our investments, our operations and financial results could be materially, adversely affected. we also have entered into franchise agreements with unaffiliated franchisees to operate stores in many countries around the world. under these agreements, third parties operate, or will operate, stores that sell apparel purchased from us under our brand names. prior to fiscal 2006, we had no experience operating through these types of third-party arrangements, and we can provide no assurance that these arrangements will be successful. while we expect this will continue to be a small part of our business in the near future, we plan over time to continue increasing these types of arrangements as part of our efforts to expand internationally. the effect of these arrangements on our business and results of operations is uncertain and will depend upon various factors, including the demand for our products in new markets internationally and our ability to successfully identify appropriate third parties to act as franchisees, distributors, or in a similar capacity. in addition, certain aspects of these arrangements are not directly within our control, such as the ability of these third parties to meet their projections regarding store locations, store openings, and sales. other risks that may affect these third parties include general economic conditions in specific countries or markets, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, and political instability. moreover, while the agreements we have entered into and plan to enter into in the future provide us with certain termination rights, the value of our brands could be impaired to the extent that these third parties do not operate their stores in a manner consistent with our requirements regarding our brand identities and customer experience standards. failure to protect the value of our brands, or any other harmful acts or omissions by a franchisee, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation. our products are subject to risks associated with overseas sourcing and manufacturing. the current unfavorable economic conditions, including reduced ability to access credit, is having an adverse impact on businesses around the world, and its impact on our vendors cannot be predicted. vendors reduced ability to access sources of capital could lead to their failure to deliver merchandise and could reduce the supply of apparel available to us, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. independent third parties manufacture nearly all of our products for us. if we experience significant increases in demand or need to replace an existing vendor, there can be no assurance that additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, or that any vendor would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. in addition, even if we are able to expand existing or find new manufacturing sources, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train our vendors in our methods, products, quality control standards, and environmental, labor, health, and safety standards. moreover, in the event of a significant disruption in the supply of the fabrics or raw materials used by our vendors in the manufacture of our products, our vendors might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price, or at all. any delays, interruption, or increased costs in the manufacture of our products could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet consumer demand for our products and result in lower sales and net income. because independent vendors manufacture nearly all of our products outside of our principal sales markets, third parties must transport our products over large geographic distances. delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion, or other factors, and costs and delays associated with transitioning between vendors, could adversely impact our financial performance. manufacturing delays or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as aircraft, which could adversely affect our gross margins. in addition, the cost of fuel is a significant component in transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our gross margins. 11 table of contents failure of our vendors to adhere to our code of vendor conduct could harm our business. we purchase nearly all merchandise from third-party vendors outside of the united states and require those vendors to adhere to a code of vendor conduct and other environmental, labor, health, and safety standards for the benefit of workers. from time to time, contractors may not be in compliance with these standards or applicable local laws. significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more contractors could have a negative impact on our reputation and an adverse effect on our results of operations. changes in the regulatory or administrative landscape could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. laws and regulations at the state, federal, and international levels frequently change, and the ultimate cost of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. in addition, we cannot predict the impact that may result from changes in the regulatory or administrative landscape. any changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations, or the enactment of any new or more stringent legislation that impacts employment and labor, trade, product safety, transportation and logistics, health care, tax, privacy, or environmental issues, among others, could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 33 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we operate in foreign countries, which exposes us to market risk associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. our risk management policy is to hedge a significant portion of forecasted merchandise purchases for foreign operations and forecasted royalty payments using foreign exchange forward contracts. we also use forward contracts to hedge our market risk exposure associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations for certain intercompany balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entity holding the intercompany balance. these contracts are entered into with large, reputable financial institutions that are monitored for counterparty risk. the principal currencies hedged against changes in the u.s. dollar during fiscal 2009 were euro, british pounds, japanese yen, and canadian dollars. our use of derivative financial instruments represents risk management; we do not use derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. additional information is presented in item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, note 8 of notes to consolidated financial statements. the derivative financial instruments are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets at their fair value as of the balance sheet dates. as of january 30, 2010, we had foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding to buy the notional amount of $695 million, 23 million british pounds, and 3 billion japanese yen. we may also use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge the net assets of international subsidiaries to offset the foreign currency translation and economic exposures related to our investment in the subsidiaries. at january 30, 2010, we had foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding to hedge the net assets of our japanese subsidiary and canadian subsidiaries in the notional amount of 2 billion japanese yen and 81 million canadian dollars, respectively. we have performed a sensitivity analysis as of january 30, 2010 based on a model that measures the impact of a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in the level of foreign currency exchange rates to u.s. dollars (with all other variables held constant) on our underlying exposure, net of derivative financial instruments. the foreign currency exchange rates used in the model were based on the spot rates in effect at january 30, 2010. the sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10 percent adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would have an unfavorable impact on the underlying cash flow exposure, net of our foreign exchange derivative financial instruments, of $30 million at january 30, 2010. we invest in fixed and variable income investments classified as cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments are placed primarily in money market funds, domestic commercial paper, u.s. treasury bills, and bank deposits, and are classified as held-to-maturity based on our positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity. these investments are stated at amortized cost, which approximates market value due to the short maturities of these instruments. an increase in interest rates of 10 percent would not have a material impact on the value of these investments. however, changes in interest rates would impact the interest income derived from our investments. we earned interest income of $7 million in fiscal 2009. 33 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors. our past performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance because actual future results and trends may differ materially depending on a variety of factors, including but not limited to the risks and uncertainties discussed below. in addition, historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. 9 table of contents general economic conditions and the impact on consumer spending patterns could adversely impact our results of operations. the company performance is subject to general economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending. some of the factors influencing consumer spending include fluctuating interest rates and credit availability, fluctuating fuel and other energy costs, fluctuating commodity prices, higher levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, reductions in net worth based on market declines, home foreclosures and reductions in home values, and general uncertainty regarding the overall future economic environment. consumer purchases of discretionary items, including our merchandise, generally decline during periods when disposable income is adversely affected or there is economic uncertainty, and such conditions could adversely impact our results of operations. our business is highly competitive. the global specialty apparel retail industry is highly competitive. we compete with local, national, and global department stores, specialty and discount store chains, independent retail stores, and online businesses that market similar lines of merchandise. we face a variety of competitive challenges including: attracting consumer traffic; sourcing merchandise efficiently; competitively pricing our products and achieving customer perception of value; anticipating and quickly responding to changing fashion trends and consumer demands; maintaining favorable brand recognition and effectively marketing our products to consumers in several diverse market segments; developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors, and styles that appeal to consumers of varying age groups and tastes; and providing strong and effective marketing support. in addition, our franchisees face significant competition in the markets in which they operate. if we or our franchisees are not able to compete successfully in the united states or internationally, our results of operations could be adversely affected. we must successfully gauge fashion trends and changing consumer preferences to succeed. our success is largely dependent upon our ability to gauge the fashion tastes of our customers and to provide merchandise that satisfies customer demand in a timely manner. however, lead times for many of our purchases are long, which may make it more difficult for us to respond rapidly to new or changing fashion trends or consumer acceptance of our products. in addition, the competitive landscape requires that more merchandise be produced through faster pipeline channels. the global specialty retail business fluctuates according to changes in consumer preferences, dictated in part by fashion and season. to the extent we misjudge the market for our merchandise or the products suitable for local markets or fail to execute trends and deliver product to market as timely as our competitors, our sales will be adversely affected, and the markdowns required to move the resulting excess inventory will adversely affect our operating results. some of our past product offerings have not been well received by our broad and diverse customer base. merchandise misjudgments could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. our ability to anticipate and effectively respond to changing fashion trends depends in part on our ability to attract and retain key personnel in our design, merchandising, marketing, and other functions. competition for this personnel is intense, and we cannot be sure that we will be able to attract and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel in future periods. 10 g ap i nc . f orm 10-k table of contents fluctuations in the global specialty retail business especially affect the inventory owned by apparel retailers, as merchandise usually must be ordered well in advance of the season and frequently before fashion trends are evidenced by customer purchases. in addition, the cyclical nature of the global specialty retail business requires us to carry a significant amount of inventory, especially prior to the peak holiday selling season when we build up our inventory levels. we must enter into contracts for the purchase and manufacture of merchandise well in advance of the applicable selling season. as a result, we are vulnerable to demand and pricing shifts and to suboptimal selection and timing of merchandise purchases. in the past, we have not always predicted our customers preferences and acceptance levels of our fashion items with accuracy. if sales do not meet expectations, too much inventory may cause excessive markdowns, and therefore, lower than planned margins. our products are subject to risks associated with global sourcing and manufacturing, including increased product costs. independent third parties manufacture nearly all of our products for us. as a result, we are directly impacted by increases in the cost of those products . for example, cotton prices have risen substantially since the beginning of fiscal 2010, and we expect them to continue to rise in fiscal 2011. the current increases in commodity prices, specifically cotton, may put pressure on our average unit costs and may impact our gross margins. if we experience significant increases in demand or need to replace an existing vendor, there can be no assurance that additional manufacturing capacity will be available when required on terms that are acceptable to us or that any vendor would allocate sufficient capacity to us in order to meet our requirements. in addition, for any new manufacturing source, we may encounter delays in production and added costs as a result of the time it takes to train our vendors in our methods, products, quality control standards, and environmental, labor, health, and safety standards. moreover, in the event of a significant disruption in the supply of the fabrics or raw materials used by our vendors in the manufacture of our products, our vendors might not be able to locate alternative suppliers of materials of comparable quality at an acceptable price. any delays, interruption, or increased costs in the manufacture of our products could result in lower sales and net income. because independent vendors manufacture nearly all of our products outside of our principal sales markets, third parties must transport our products over large geographic distances. delays in the shipment or delivery of our products due to the availability of transportation, work stoppages, port strikes, infrastructure congestion, or other factors, and costs and delays associated with transitioning between vendors, could adversely impact our financial performance. manufacturing delays or unexpected demand for our products may require us to use faster, but more expensive, transportation methods such as aircraft, which could adversely affect our gross margins. in addition, the cost of fuel is a significant component in transportation costs, so increases in the price of petroleum products can adversely affect our gross margins. our efforts to expand internationally may not be successful and could impair the value of our brands. our current strategies include international expansion in a number of countries around the world through a number of channels and brands. for example, we currently plan to open additional gap stores in europe and china, expand banana republic in europe, open additional outlet stores in canada, europe, and asia, and grow online sales internationally. we have limited experience operating in a number of these countries. in many of these countries, we face major, established competitors. in addition, in many of these countries, the real estate, employment and labor, transportation and logistics, and other operating requirements differ dramatically from those in the places where we have experience. moreover, consumer tastes and trends may differ in many of these countries, and as a result, the sales of our products may not be successful or result in the margins we anticipate. if our international expansion plans are unsuccessful or do not deliver an appropriate return on our investments, our operations and financial results could be materially, adversely affected. we also have entered into franchise agreements with unaffiliated franchisees to operate stores in many countries around the world. under these agreements, third parties operate, or will operate, stores that sell apparel and related products under our brand names. however, prior to fiscal 2006, we had no experience operating through these types of third-party arrangements, and we can provide no assurance that these arrangements will be successful. the effect of these arrangements on our business and results of operations is uncertain and will 11 table of contents depend upon various factors, including the demand for our products in new markets internationally and our ability to successfully identify appropriate third parties to act as franchisees, distributors, or in a similar capacity. in addition, certain aspects of these arrangements are not directly within our control, such as the ability of these third parties to meet their projections regarding store locations, store openings, and sales. other risks that may affect these third parties include general economic conditions in specific countries or markets, changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, and political instability. moreover, while the agreements we have entered into and plan to enter into in the future provide us with certain termination rights, the value of our brands could be impaired to the extent that these third parties do not operate their stores in a manner consistent with our requirements regarding our brand identities and customer experience standards. failure to protect the value of our brands, or any other harmful acts or omissions by a franchisee, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and our reputation. the market for prime real estate is competitive. our ability to effectively obtain real estate to open new stores nationally and internationally depends on the availability of real estate that meets our criteria for traffic, square footage, co-tenancies, lease economics, demographics, and other factors, including our ability to negotiate terms that meet our financial targets. we also must be able to effectively renew our existing store leases. in addition, in recent years, we have been seeking to downsize, consolidate, reposition, or close some of our real estate locations, which in most cases requires a modification of an existing store lease. failure to secure adequate new locations or successfully modify existing locations, or failure to effectively manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, the current economic environment may make it difficult to determine the fair market rent of retail real estate properties within the united states and internationally. this could impact the quality of our decisions to exercise lease options at previously negotiated rents and the quality of our decisions to renew expiring leases at negotiated rents. any adverse effect on the quality of these decisions could impact our ability to retain real estate locations adequate to meet our targets or efficiently manage the profitability of our existing fleet of stores and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we experience fluctuations in our comparable store sales and margins. our success depends in part on our ability to improve sales, in particular at our largest brands. a variety of factors affect comparable store sales, including fashion trends, competition, current economic conditions, the timing of new merchandise releases and promotional events, changes in our merchandise mix, the success of marketing programs, and weather conditions. these factors may cause our comparable store sales results to differ materially from prior periods and from expectations. our comparable store sales have fluctuated significantly in the past on an annual, quarterly, and monthly basis as demonstrated by a decrease of 12 percent in fiscal 2008, a decrease of 3 percent in fiscal 2009, and an increase of 1 percent in fiscal 2010. over the past five years, our reported gross margins have ranged from a high of 40 percent in fiscal 2009 to a low of 36 percent in fiscal 2006. in addition, over the past five years, our reported operating margins have ranged from a high of 13 percent in fiscal 2010 to a low of 8 percent in fiscal 2006. our ability to deliver strong comparable store sales results and margins depends in large part on accurately forecasting demand and fashion trends, selecting effective marketing techniques, providing an appropriate mix of merchandise for our broad and diverse customer base, managing inventory effectively, using effective pricing strategies, and optimizing store performance. failure to meet the expectations of investors, securities analysts, or credit rating agencies in one or more future periods could reduce the market price of our common stock and cause our credit ratings to decline. changes in our credit profile or deterioration in market conditions may limit our access to the capital markets. although we believe our existing cash and cash equivalents combined with future cash flow from our operations will be adequate to satisfy our business operations needs for the foreseeable future, we may require additional cash for unexpected contingencies. 12 g ap i nc . f orm 10-k table of contents there can be no assurance that our current levels of liquidity will continue or that our ability to access the credit or capital markets will not be adversely affected by changes in the financial markets and the global economy. any future reduction in our long-term senior unsecured credit rating could result in reduced access to the credit and capital markets and higher interest costs on future financings. as of january 29, 2011, the company had $1.7 billion in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. for further information on our credit facilities, see the section entitled credit facilities in our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations included as part ii, item 7 of this form 10-k. trade matters may disrupt our supply chain. trade restrictions, including increased tariffs or quotas, embargoes, safeguards, and customs restrictions against apparel items, as well as u.s. or foreign labor strikes, work stoppages, or boycotts, could increase the cost or reduce the supply of apparel available to us and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. we cannot predict whether any of the countries in which our merchandise currently is manufactured or may be manufactured in the future will be subject to additional trade restrictions imposed by the u.s. and other foreign governments, including the likelihood, type, or effect of any such restrictions. in addition, we face the possibility of anti-dumping or countervailing duties lawsuits from u.s. domestic producers. we are unable to determine the impact of the changes to the quota system or the impact that potential tariff lawsuits could have on our global sourcing operations. our sourcing operations may be adversely affected by trade limits or political and financial instability, resulting in the disruption of trade from exporting countries, significant fluctuation in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies, restrictions on the transfer of funds, and/or other trade disruptions. updates or changes to our it systems may disrupt operations. we continue to evaluate and implement upgrades to our it systems. upgrades involve replacing existing systems with successor systems, making changes to existing systems, or cost-effectively acquiring new systems with new functionality. we are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing these systems, including accurately capturing data and system disruptions, and believe we are taking appropriate action to mitigate the risks through testing, training, and staging implementation, as well as ensuring appropriate commercial contracts are in place with third-party vendors supplying such replacement technologies. however, there can be no assurances that we will successfully launch these systems as planned or that they will occur without disruptions to our operations. it system disruptions, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, or failure to successfully implement new or upgraded systems, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our it services agreement with ibm could cause disruptions in our operations and have an adverse effect on our financial results. we have entered into the sixth year of a ten-year non-exclusive services agreement with international business machines corporation ( ibm ) under which ibm operates certain significant aspects of our it infrastructure. under the original agreement, this included supporting our mainframe, server, network and data center, and store operations, as well as help desk, end user support, and some disaster recovery. the agreement was amended effective march 2, 2009 to return to us certain services originally performed by ibm under the agreement. these returned services include services related to management of our server and data center environment, along with disaster recovery. all other services remain with ibm per the original agreement. our ability to realize the expected benefits of this arrangement is subject to various risks, some of which are not within our complete control. these risks include, but are not limited to, disruption in services and the failure to protect the security and integrity of the company data under the terms of the agreement. we are unable to provide assurances that some or all of these risks will not occur. failure to effectively mitigate these risks, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. 13 table of contents failure of our vendors to adhere to our code of vendor conduct could harm our business. we purchase nearly all merchandise from third-party vendors outside of the united states and require those vendors to adhere to a code of vendor conduct and other environmental, labor, health, and safety standards for the benefit of workers. from time to time, contractors may not be in compliance with these standards or applicable local laws. significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more contractors could have a negative impact on our reputation and an adverse effect on our results of operations. changes in the regulatory or administrative landscape could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. laws and regulations at the state, federal, and international levels frequently change, and the ultimate cost of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. in addition, we cannot predict the impact that may result from changes in the regulatory or administrative landscape. any changes in regulations, the imposition of additional regulations, or the enactment of any new or more stringent legislation that impacts employment and labor, trade, product safety, transportation and logistics, health care, tax, privacy, or environmental issues, among others, could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we operate in foreign countries, which exposes us to market risk associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. our risk management policy is to hedge a significant portion of forecasted merchandise purchases denominated primarily in u.s. dollars made by our international subsidiaries whose functional currencies are their local currencies, forecasted intercompany royalty payments, and intercompany obligations that bear foreign exchange risk using foreign exchange forward contracts. these contracts are entered into with large, reputable financial institutions that are monitored for counterparty risk. the principal currencies hedged against changes in the u.s. dollar are euro, british pounds, japanese yen, and canadian dollars. our use of derivative financial instruments represents risk management; we do not enter into derivative financial contracts for trading purposes. additional information is presented in item 8, financial statements and supplementary data, note 6 of notes to consolidated financial statements. our derivative financial instruments are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets at fair value as of the balance sheet dates. as of january 29, 2011, we had foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding to buy the notional amount of $1 billion, 54 million british pounds, and 3 billion japanese yen. we may also use foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge the net assets of international subsidiaries to offset the foreign currency translation and economic exposures related to our investment in the subsidiaries. at january 29, 2011, we had foreign exchange forward contracts outstanding to hedge the net assets of our japanese subsidiary in the notional amount of 3 billion japanese yen. we have performed a sensitivity analysis as of january 29, 2011 based on a model that measures the impact of a hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in the level of foreign currency exchange rates to u.s. dollars (with all other variables held constant) on our underlying exposure, net of derivative financial instruments. the foreign currency exchange rates used in the model were based on the spot rates in effect at january 29, 2011. the sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 10 percent adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would have an unfavorable impact on the underlying cash flow exposure, net of our foreign exchange derivative financial instruments, of $47 million at january 29, 2011. we invest in fixed and variable income investments classified as cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments are placed primarily in money market funds, domestic commercial paper, u.s. treasury bills, and bank deposits, and are classified as held-to-maturity based on our positive intent and ability to hold the securities to maturity. these investments are stated at amortized cost, which approximates market value due to the short maturities. an increase in interest rates of 10 percent would not have a material impact on the value of these investments. however, changes in interest rates would impact the interest income derived from our investments. we earned interest income of $6 million in fiscal 2010. 33 table of contentsrisk factors 8 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34