risk factors. there are a number of business risks and uncertainties that could affect our business. these risks and uncertainties could cause our actual results to differ from past performance or expected results. we consider the following risks and uncertainties to be most relevant to our specific business activities. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, also may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial position. our business relies on home improvement and, to a lesser extent, on new home construction activity, both of which are cyclical. our business relies on home improvement activity, including repair and remodeling projects, and, to a lesser extent, on new home construction activity. macroeconomic conditions in north america and europe, including consumer confidence levels, fluctuations in home prices, unemployment and underemployment levels, consumer income and debt levels, household formation and the availability of home equity loans and mortgages and the interest rates for such loans, affect both consumers' discretionary spending on home improvement projects as well as new home construction activity. although credit availability has improved and financing rates remain low, consumer spending for big ticket remodeling projects and new home construction continues to be below historic levels. the fundamentals driving our business are cyclical, and adverse changes or uncertainty regarding macroeconomic conditions, including an economic slowdown or increased interest rates, could result in a decline in spending on home improvement projects and a decline in demand for new home construction, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. if we do not maintain our strong brands, develop new products or respond to changing purchasing practices and consumer preferences, we could lose market share. our competitive advantage is due, in part, to our ability to maintain our strong brands and to develop and introduce innovative new and improved products. while we continue to invest in brand building and brand awareness, these initiatives may not be successful. the uncertainties associated with developing and introducing new and improved products, such as gauging changing consumer preferences and successfully developing, manufacturing, marketing and selling these products, may impact the success of our product introductions. if we do not introduce new or improved products in a timely manner or if these products do not gain widespread acceptance, we could lose market share, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial position. it is also possible that our competitors may improve their products more rapidly or effectively than we do, which could adversely affect our market share. in recent years, consumer purchasing practices and preferences have shifted and our customers' business models and strategies have changed. as our customers execute their strategies to reach end consumers through multiple channels, they rely on us to support their efforts with our infrastructure, including maintaining robust and user-friendly websites with sufficient content for consumer research and to provide comprehensive supply chain solutions and differentiated product development. if we are unable to successfully provide this support to our customers, our brands may lose market share. if we do not timely and effectively identify and respond to these changing purchasing practices and consumer preferences, our relationships with our customers and with consumers could be harmed, the demand for our brands and products could be reduced and our results of operations and financial position could be negatively affected. we face significant competition. our products face significant competition. we believe that brand reputation is an important factor impacting product selection and that we compete on the basis of product features and innovation, product quality, customer service, warranty and price. we sell many of our products through home center retailers, distributors and independent dealers and rely on these customers to market and promote our products to consumers. our success with our customers is dependent on our ability to provide quality products and timely delivery. in addition, home center retailers, which have historically concentrated their sales efforts on retail consumers and remodelers, are increasingly marketing directly to professional contractors and installers, which may impact our margins on our products that contractors and installers would otherwise buy through our dealers and wholesalers. we also compete with low cost foreign manufacturers and private label brands in a variety of our product groups. as market dynamics change, we may experience a shift in the mix of some products we sell toward more value priced or opening price point products, which may impact our ability to maintain or gain market share and/or our profitability. 7 if we are unable to maintain our competitive position in our industries our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. our sales are concentrated with two significant customers. our sales are concentrated with our two largest customers. in 2016, our net sales to the home depot were $2.5 billion (approximately 34 percent of our consolidated net sales), and our net sales to lowe's were less than ten percent of our consolidated net sales. our reliance on these significant customers may further increase if the mix of our business operations changes, including as a result of acquisitions or divestitures. these home center retailers can significantly affect the prices we receive for our products and the terms and conditions on which we do business with them. additionally, these home center retailers may reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase and could make significant changes in their volume of purchases from us. although other retailers, dealers, distributors and homebuilders represent other channels of distribution for our products and services, we might not be able to quickly replace, if at all, the loss of a substantial portion of our sales to the home depot or the loss of all of our sales to lowe's, and any such loss would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. further, as these home center retailers expand their markets and targeted customers and as consumer purchasing practices change and e commerce increases, conflicts between our existing distribution channels have and will continue to occur, which could impact our results of operations and financial position. our relationships with these customers may be impacted if we increase the amount of business we transact directly with consumers. in addition, these home center retailers request product exclusivity from time to time, which may affect our ability to offer products to other customers and may diminish our ability to leverage economies of scale. we may not achieve all of the anticipated benefits of our strategic initiatives. we continue to pursue our strategic initiatives of investing in our brands, developing innovative products, and focusing on operational excellence through our continued deployment of the masco operating system, our methodology to drive growth and productivity. all of these initiatives are designed to grow revenue, improve profitability and increase shareholder value over the mid to long term. our business performance and results could be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully execute these initiatives, or if we are unable to execute them in a timely and efficient manner. we could also be adversely affected if we have not appropriately prioritized and balanced our initiatives or if we are unable to effectively manage change throughout our organization. pursuing the acquisition of businesses complementary to our portfolio is a component of our strategy for future growth. if we are not able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or consummate potential acquisitions at acceptable terms and prices, our long term competitive positioning may be impacted. even if we are successful in acquiring businesses, we may experience risks in integrating these businesses into our existing business. such risks include difficulties realizing expected synergies and economies of scale, diversion of our resources, unforeseen liabilities, issues with the new or existing customers or suppliers, and difficulties in retaining critical employees of the acquired businesses. future foreign acquisitions may also increase our exposure to foreign currency risks and risks associated with interpretation and enforcement of foreign regulations. our failure to address these risks could cause us to incur additional costs and/or fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. our actions to improve the results of our u.s. window business may not be successful. our u.s. window business, milgard manufacturing incorporated ( milgard ), is experiencing operational issues and production inefficiencies, including difficulty in hiring and retaining qualified labor. in addition, milgard has begun a phased deployment of a new enterprise resource planning ( erp ) system to improve its business processes. the implementation of this erp system is complex and expensive and will require significant oversight and resources. while we have implemented plans to address the operational and erp issues challenging milgard, there is no assurance that our plans will be successful. if we experience unanticipated expenses or additional disruptions to milgard's operations, our results of operations and financial position may be negatively impacted. 8 variability in commodity costs or limited availability of commodities could impact us. we buy various commodities to produce our products, including, among others, brass, resins, titanium dioxide, zinc, wood and glass. in addition, water is a significant component of many of our architectural coatings products and may be subject to restrictions in certain regions. fluctuations in the availability and prices of these commodities could increase our costs to produce our products. our production of products could also be impacted if we are unable to procure our requirements for these commodities or if a shortage of these commodities drives their prices to levels that are not commercially feasible. further, increases in energy costs could increase our production and transportation costs, which could also negatively affect our results of operations and financial position. it can be difficult for us to pass on to customers cost increases to cover our increased commodity and production costs. our existing arrangements with customers, competitive considerations and customer resistance to price increases may delay or make us unable to adjust selling prices. if we are not able to increase the prices of our products or achieve cost savings to offset increased commodity and production costs, our results of operations and financial position could be negatively impacted. if we are able to increase our selling prices, sustained price increases for our products may lead to sales declines and loss of market share, particularly if our competitors do not increase their prices. when commodity prices decline, we have experienced and may in the future receive pressure from our customers to reduce our prices. such reductions could impact our results of operations and financial position. we have entered into long-term agreements with certain significant suppliers to help ensure continued availability of key commodities and to establish firm pricing, but at times these contractual commitments may result in our paying above market prices for commodities during the term of the contract. from time to time, we also may use derivative instruments, including commodity futures and swaps. this strategy increases the possibility that we may make commitments for these commodities at prices that subsequently exceed their market prices, which has and may continue to adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. we are dependent on third-party suppliers. we rely heavily on third party suppliers for many of our products and components, and our ability to offer a wide variety of products depends on our ability to obtain an adequate and/or timely supply of these products and components. failure of our suppliers to provide us quality products on commercially reasonable terms, or to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. resourcing these products and components to another supplier could take time and involve significant costs. accordingly, the loss of critical suppliers, or a substantial decrease in the availability of products or components from our suppliers, could disrupt our business and adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. many of the suppliers upon whom we rely are located in foreign countries. the differences in business practices, shipping and delivery requirements and laws and regulations, together with the limited number of suppliers, have increased the complexity of our supply chain logistics and the potential for interruptions in our production scheduling. if we are unable to effectively manage our supply chain or if there is a disruption in transporting the products or components, our results of operations and financial position could be negatively affected. there are risks associated with international operations and global strategies. approximately 21 percent of our sales are made outside of north america (principally in europe) and are transacted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. in addition to our european operations, we manufacture products in asia and source products and components from third parties globally. risks associated with our international operations include changes in political, monetary and social environments, labor conditions and practices, the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, social and political unrest, terrorist attacks, cultural differences and differences in enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. our results of operations and financial position are also impacted by international economic conditions, primarily in europe. we continue to be negatively impacted by currency conversion rates, particularly the euro, the british pound sterling, the canadian dollar and the chinese yuan renminbi, due to the strength of the u.s. dollar compared to these currencies. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may present challenges in comparing operating performance from period to period. 9 as the situation involving the united kingdom's decision to exit from the european union develops, we could experience volatility in the currency exchange rates and/or a change in the demand for our products and services, particularly in our u.k. and european markets, or there could be disruption of our operations and our customers' and suppliers' businesses. u.s. laws and regulations regarding activities of u.s. companies doing business abroad, including tax laws, laws regulating competition, anti bribery/anti corruption and other business practices, and trade regulations, which may include duties and tariffs, can also affect us. while it is difficult to assess what changes may occur and the relative impact on our international tax structure, it is possible that significant changes in how u.s. and foreign jurisdictions tax cross border transactions could adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. we may not be able to adequately protect or prevent the unauthorized use of our intellectual property. protecting our intellectual property is important to our growth and innovation efforts. we own a number of patents, trade names, brand names and other forms of intellectual property in our products and manufacturing processes throughout the world. there can be no assurance that our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights will prevent violations. our intellectual property may be challenged or infringed upon by third parties, particularly in countries where property rights are not highly developed or protected. in addition, the global nature of our business increases the risk that we may be unable to obtain or maintain our intellectual property rights on reasonable terms. furthermore, others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us. current and former employees, contractors or suppliers have or may have had access to proprietary or confidential information regarding our business operations that could harm us if used by, or disclosed to others, including our competitors. protecting and defending our intellectual property could be costly, time consuming and require significant resources. if we are not able to protect our existing intellectual property rights, or prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property, sales of our products may be affected and we may experience reputational damage to our brand names, increased litigation costs and adverse impact to our competitive position, which could affect our results of operations and financial position. the long-term performance of our businesses relies on our ability to attract, develop and retain talented personnel. to be successful, we must attract, develop and retain highly qualified and talented personnel who have the experience, knowledge and expertise to successfully implement our key business strategies. we compete for employees with a broad range of employers in many different industries, including large multinational firms, and we invest significant resources in recruiting, developing, motivating and retaining them. in certain areas of the u.s., we have experienced and may continue to experience difficulty in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient skilled and unskilled labor, resulting in additional costs related to labor inefficiencies. the failure to attract and retain key employees, or to develop effective succession planning to assure smooth transitions of those employees and the knowledge and expertise they possess, could negatively affect our competitive position and our results of operations and financial position. claims and litigation could be costly. we are involved in various claims and litigation, including class actions and regulatory proceedings, that arise in the ordinary course of our business and that could have a material adverse effect on us. the types of matters may include, among others: competition, product liability, employment, warranty, advertising, contract, personal injury and environmental. given the inherently unpredictable nature of claims and litigation, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any such matter. defending and resolving claims and litigation can be costly and can divert management's attention. we have and may continue to incur significant costs as a result of claims and litigation. we are also subject to product safety regulations, recalls and direct claims for product liability that can result in significant costs and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, create adverse publicity and damage the reputation of our brands and business. also, we rely on other manufacturers to provide products or components for products that we sell. due to the difficulty of controlling the quality of products and components sourced from other manufacturers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products and to limitations on our recourse against such suppliers. we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the risks of loss resulting from claims and litigation. the levels of insurance we maintain may not be adequate to fully cover any and all losses or liabilities. if any significant accident, judgment, claim or other event is not fully insured or indemnified against, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial position. 10 refer to note u to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report for additional information about litigation involving our businesses. compliance with laws, government regulation and industry standards could impact our results of operations and financial position. we are subject to a wide variety of federal, state, local and foreign government laws and regulations, including securities laws, tax laws, anti-bribery/anti-corruption laws and employment laws, as well as those pertaining to health and safety (including protection of employees and consumers), product compliance, competition practices, import and export regulations, climate change and environmental issues. in addition to complying with current requirements and requirements that will become effective at a future date, even more stringent requirements could be imposed on us in the future. additionally, some of our products must be certified by industry organizations. compliance with these laws, regulations and industry standards may require us to alter our product designs, our manufacturing processes, our packaging or our sourcing. compliance activities are costly and require significant management attention and resources. if we do not effectively and timely comply with such regulations and industry standards, our results of operations and financial position could be negatively affected. we rely on information systems and technology, and disruptions to these systems could impact our results of operations and financial position. we rely on a number of information systems and technology to process, transmit, store and manage information to support our business activities. we may be adversely impacted if our information systems are disrupted, are no longer supported or fail. in addition to the disruptions that may occur from interruptions in our systems, increased global cybersecurity vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted attacks pose a risk to our information technology systems. we have established security policies, processes and layers of defense designed to help identify and protect against intentional and unintentional misappropriation or corruption of our systems and information and disruption of our operations. despite these efforts, our systems may be damaged, disrupted, or shut down due to attacks by unauthorized access, malicious software, undetected intrusion, hardware failures, or other events, and in these circumstances our disaster recovery plans may be ineffective or inadequate. these breaches or intrusions could lead to business interruption, exposure of proprietary or confidential information, data corruption, damage to our reputation, exposure to litigation, and increased operational costs. such events could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial position. in addition, we could be adversely affected if any of our significant customers or suppliers experiences any similar events that disrupt their business operations or damage their reputation. we have plans to make significant investments in new technology systems throughout our company over the next several years. we are also in the process of implementing erp systems at select business units. while we are leveraging our experience and engaging consultants to assist as we deploy erp systems, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, unanticipated expenses and disruptions to our operations during these implementations. our results of operations and financial position could be negatively impacted if we do not appropriately select and implement our new technology systems in a timely manner or if we experience significant unanticipated expenses or disruptions in connection with the implementation of erp systems. restrictive covenants in our credit agreement could limit our financial flexibility. we must comply with both financial and nonfinancial covenants in our credit agreement, and in order to borrow under it, we cannot be in default with any of those provisions. our ability to borrow under the credit agreement could be impacted if our earnings significantly decline to a level where we are not in compliance with the financial covenants or if we default on any nonfinancial covenants. in the past, we have been able to amend the covenants in our credit agreement, but there can be no assurance that in the future we would be able to further amend them. if we were unable to borrow under our credit agreement, our financial flexibility would be restricted if we were also unable to obtain alternative financing on acceptable terms and at acceptable rates or if we were not permitted to obtain alternative financing under the terms of our existing financing arrangements. the topbuild spin off could result in substantial tax liability to us and our stockholders. we received an opinion of tax counsel substantially to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the spin off of topbuild corp. ("topbuild") in 2015 and certain related transactions qualify for tax free treatment under certain sections of the internal revenue code. however, if the factual assumptions or representations made by us in connection with the delivery of the opinion are inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, including those relating 11 to the past and future conduct of our business, we will not be able to rely on the opinion. furthermore, the opinion is not binding on the internal revenue service or the courts. if, notwithstanding receipt of the opinion, the spin off transaction and certain related transactions are determined to be taxable, we would be subject to a substantial tax liability. in addition, if the spin off transaction is taxable, each holder of our common stock who received shares of topbuild in connection with the spin off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares received, thereby potentially increasing such holder's tax liability. even if the spin off otherwise qualifies as a tax free transaction, the distribution could be taxable to us (but not to our stockholders) in certain circumstances if future significant acquisitions of our stock or the stock of topbuild are deemed to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the spin off. in this event, the resulting tax liability could be substantial. in connection with the spin off, we entered into a tax matters agreement with topbuild, pursuant to which topbuild agreed to not enter into any transaction that could cause any portion of the spin off to be taxable to us without our consent and to indemnify us for any tax liability resulting from any such transaction. these obligations and potential tax liabilities may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of us. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we have considered the provisions of accounting guidance regarding disclosure of accounting policies for derivative financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments, and disclosure of quantitative and qualitative information about market risk inherent in derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments. we are exposed to the impact of changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity costs in the normal course of business and to market price fluctuations related to our financial investments. we have involvement with derivative financial instruments and use such instruments to the extent necessary to manage exposure to foreign currency fluctuations and commodity fluctuations. refer to note f to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our derivative instruments. at december 31, 2016 , we performed sensitivity analyses to assess the potential loss in the fair values of market risk sensitive instruments resulting from a hypothetical change of 10 percent in foreign currency exchange rates, a 10 percent decline in the market value of our long-term investments, a 10 percent change in commodity costs, or a 10 percent change in interest rates. based upon the analyses performed, such changes would not be expected to materially affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 34risk factors. there are a number of business risks and uncertainties that could affect our business. these risks and uncertainties could cause our actual results to differ from past performance or expected results. we consider the following risks and uncertainties to be most relevant to our specific business activities. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, also may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial position. our business relies on residential repair and remodeling activity and, to a lesser extent, on new home construction activity, both of which are cyclical. our business relies on residential repair and remodeling activity and, to a lesser extent, on new home construction activity. a number of factors affect consumers' spending on home improvement projects as well as new home construction activity, including: consumer confidence levels; fluctuations in home prices; existing home sales; unemployment and underemployment levels; consumer income and debt levels; household formation; the availability of home equity loans and mortgages and the interest rates for and tax deductibility of such loans; the availability of skilled tradespeople for repair and remodeling work; trends in lifestyle and housing design; and weather and natural disasters. the fundamentals driving our business are cyclical, and adverse changes or uncertainty involving the factors listed above could result in a decline in spending on residential repair and remodeling activity and a decline in demand for new home construction, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. we could lose market share if we do not maintain our strong brands, develop new products or respond to changing purchasing practices and consumer preferences or if our reputation is damaged. our competitive advantage is due, in part, to our ability to maintain our strong brands and to develop and introduce innovative new and improved products. while we continue to invest in brand building and brand awareness, these initiatives may not be successful. the uncertainties associated with developing and introducing new and improved products, such as gauging changing consumer preferences and successfully developing, manufacturing, marketing and selling these products, may impact the success of our product introductions. if we do not introduce new or improved products in a timely manner or if these products do not gain widespread acceptance, we could lose market share, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. it is also possible that our competitors may improve their products more rapidly or effectively than we do, which could adversely affect our market share. in recent years, consumer purchasing practices and preferences have shifted and our customers' business models and strategies have changed. as our customers execute their strategies to reach end consumers through multiple channels, they rely on us to support their efforts with our infrastructure, including maintaining robust and user-friendly websites with sufficient content for consumer research and to provide comprehensive supply chain solutions and differentiated product development. if we are unable to successfully provide this support to our customers, our brands may lose market share. if we do not timely and effectively identify and respond to these changing purchasing practices and consumer preferences, our relationships with our customers and with consumers could be harmed, the demand for our brands and products could be reduced and our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. our public image and reputation are important to maintaining our strong brands and could be adversely affected by various factors, including product quality and service, claims and comments in social media or the press, or negative publicity regarding disputes or legal action against us, even if unfounded. damage to our public image or reputation could adversely affect our sales and results of operations and financial position. 7 we face significant competition. our products face significant competition. we believe that brand reputation is an important factor affecting product selection and that we compete on the basis of product features and innovation, product quality, customer service, warranty and price. we sell many of our products through home center retailers, online retailers, distributors and independent dealers and rely on these customers to market and promote our products to consumers. our success with our customers is dependent on our ability to provide quality products and timely delivery. in addition, home center retailers, which have historically concentrated their sales efforts on retail consumers and remodelers, are increasingly marketing directly to professional contractors and installers, which may affect our margins on our products that contractors and installers would otherwise buy through our dealers and wholesalers. we also compete with low cost foreign manufacturers and private label brands sold by our customers in a variety of our product groups. as market dynamics change, we may experience a shift in the mix of some products we sell toward more value priced or opening price point products, which may affect our ability to maintain or gain market share and/or our profitability. if we are unable to maintain our competitive position in our industries , our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. our sales are concentrated with two significant customers. our sales are concentrated with our two largest customers. in 2017, our net sales to the home depot were $2.5 billion (approximately 33 percent of our consolidated net sales), and our net sales to lowe's were less than 10 percent of our consolidated net sales. our reliance on these significant customers may further increase if the mix of our business operations changes, including as a result of acquisitions or divestitures. these home center retailers can significantly affect the prices we receive for our products and the terms and conditions on which we do business with them. additionally, these home center retailers may reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase and could make significant changes in their volume of purchases from us. although other retailers, dealers, distributors and homebuilders represent other channels of distribution for our products and services, we might not be able to quickly replace, if at all, the loss of a substantial portion of our sales to the home depot or the loss of all of our sales to lowe's, and any such loss would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. further, as these home center retailers expand their markets and targeted customers and as consumer purchasing practices change and e commerce increases, conflicts between our existing distribution channels have and will continue to occur, which could affect our results of operations and financial position. our relationships with these customers may be affected if we increase the amount of business we transact directly with consumers and professionals. in addition, these home center retailers are granted product exclusivity from time to time, which increases the complexity of our product offerings and our costs and may affect our ability to offer products to other customers . variability in commodity costs or limited availability of commodities could affect our results of operations and financial position. various commodities, including, among others, brass, resins, titanium dioxide, zinc, wood and glass, are used to produce our products. fluctuations in the availability and prices of these commodities could increase the costs of our products. our production of products could also be affected if we or our suppliers are unable to procure our requirements for these commodities or if a shortage of these commodities drives their prices to levels that are not commercially feasible. further, increases in energy costs could increase our production and transportation costs . in addition, water is a significant component of many of our architectural coatings products and may be subject to restrictions in certain regions. these factors could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. it can be difficult for us to pass on to customers cost increases to cover our increased commodity and production costs. our existing arrangements with customers, competitive considerations and customer resistance to price increases may delay or make us unable to adjust selling prices. if we are not able to increase the prices of our products or achieve cost savings to offset increased commodity and production costs, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. if we are able to increase our selling prices, sustained price increases for our products may lead to sales declines and loss of market share, particularly if our competitors do not increase their prices. when commodity prices decline, we have experienced and may in the future receive pressure from our customers to reduce our prices. such reductions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. 8 from time to time we enter into long-term agreements with certain significant suppliers to help ensure continued availability of key commodities and to establish firm pricing, but at times these contractual commitments may result in our paying above market prices for commodities during the term of the contract. occasionally, we also may use derivative instruments, including commodity futures and swaps. this strategy increases the possibility that we may make commitments for these commodities at prices that subsequently exceed their market prices, which has occurred and could occur in the future and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. we are dependent on third-party suppliers. we are dependent on third party suppliers for many of our products and components, and our ability to offer a wide variety of products depends on our ability to obtain an adequate and/or timely supply of these products and components. failure of our suppliers to timely provide us quality products on commercially reasonable terms, or to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. resourcing these products and components to another supplier could take time and involve significant costs. accordingly, the loss of critical suppliers, or a substantial decrease in the availability of products or components from our suppliers, could disrupt our business and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. many of the suppliers upon whom we rely are located in foreign countries. the differences in business practices, shipping and delivery requirements and laws and regulations, together with the limited number of suppliers, have increased the complexity of our supply chain logistics and the potential for interruptions in our production scheduling. if we are unable to effectively manage our supply chain or if there is a disruption in transporting the products or components, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. there are risks associated with international operations and global strategies. approximately 21 percent of our sales are made outside of north america (principally in europe) and are transacted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. in addition to our european operations, we manufacture products in asia and source products and components from third parties globally. risks associated with our international operations include changes in political, monetary and social environments, labor conditions and practices, the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, social and political unrest, terrorist attacks, cultural differences and differences in enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. our results of operations and financial position are also affected by international economic conditions, primarily in europe. unfavorable currency conversion rates, particularly the euro, the british pound sterling, the canadian dollar and the chinese yuan renminbi, have in the past adversely affected us, and could adversely affect us in the future. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may present challenges in comparing operating performance from period to period. as the situation involving the united kingdom's decision to exit from the european union develops, we could experience volatility in the currency exchange rates and/or a change in the demand for our products and services, particularly in our u.k. and european markets, or there could be disruption of our operations and our customers' and suppliers' businesses. we are also affected by laws applicable to u.s. companies doing business abroad or importing goods and materials. these include tax laws, laws regulating competition, anti bribery/anti corruption and other business practices, and trade regulations, which may include duties and tariffs. while it is difficult to assess what changes may occur and the relative effect on our international tax structure, significant changes in how u.s. and foreign jurisdictions tax cross border transactions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. we may not achieve all of the anticipated benefits of our strategic initiatives. we continue to pursue our strategic initiatives of investing in our brands, developing innovative products, and focusing on operational excellence through our continued deployment of the masco operating system, our methodology to drive growth and productivity into our business units. all of these initiatives are designed to grow revenue, improve profitability and increase shareholder value over the mid to long term. our business performance and results could be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully execute these initiatives or if we are unable to execute these initiatives in a timely and efficient manner. we could also be adversely affected if we have not appropriately prioritized and balanced our initiatives or if we are unable to effectively manage change throughout our organization. 9 we may not be able to successfully execute our acquisition strategy or integrate businesses that we acquire. pursuing the acquisition of businesses complementary to our portfolio is a component of our strategy for future growth. if we are not able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or consummate potential acquisitions at acceptable terms and prices, our long term competitive positioning may be affected. even if we are successful in acquiring businesses, we may experience risks in integrating these businesses into our existing business. such risks include difficulties realizing expected synergies and economies of scale, diversion of our resources, unforeseen liabilities, issues with the new or existing customers or suppliers, and difficulties in retaining critical employees of the acquired businesses. future foreign acquisitions may also increase our exposure to foreign currency risks and risks associated with interpretation and enforcement of foreign regulations. our failure to address these risks could cause us to incur additional costs and/or fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. the long-term performance of our businesses relies on our ability to attract, develop and retain talented personnel. to be successful, we must attract, develop and retain highly qualified , talented and diverse personnel who have the experience, knowledge and expertise to successfully implement our key strategic initiatives. we compete for employees with a broad range of employers in many different industries, including large multinational firms, and we invest significant resources in recruiting, developing, motivating and retaining them. we have been affected by a shortage of qualified personnel in certain geographic areas. our growth, competitive position and results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected by our failure to attract, develop and retain key employees, to build strong leadership teams, or to develop effective succession planning to assure smooth transitions of those employees and the knowledge and expertise they possess, or by a shortage of qualified personnel. we may not experience the anticipated benefits from our investments in new technology. we are making significant investments in new technology systems throughout our company, including concurrent implementations of enterprise resource planning ( erp ) systems at our larger business units. erp implementations are complex and require significant management oversight. while we are leveraging our experience and engaging consultants to assist as we deploy erp systems, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, unanticipated expenses and interruptions to our operations during these implementations. these interruptions could affect our ability to produce and ship goods to our customers or to timely report financial results. our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected if we do not appropriately select and implement our new technology systems in a timely manner or if we experience significant unanticipated expenses or disruptions in connection with the implementation of erp systems. we rely on information systems and technology, and a breakdown of these systems could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. we rely on many information systems and technology to process, transmit, store and manage information to support our business activities. we may be adversely affected if our information systems breakdown, fail, or are no longer supported. in addition to the consequences that may occur from interruptions in our systems, increased global cybersecurity vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted attacks pose a risk to our information technology systems, and a cybersecurity breach could disrupt our operations. we have established security policies, processes and layers of defense designed to help identify and protect against intentional and unintentional misappropriation or corruption of our systems and information and disruption of our operations. despite these efforts, our systems may be damaged, disrupted, or shut down due to attacks by unauthorized access, malicious software, undetected intrusion, hardware failures, or other events, and in these circumstances our disaster recovery plans may be ineffective or inadequate. these breaches or intrusions could lead to business interruption, exposure of proprietary or confidential information, data corruption, damage to our reputation and the reputation of our brands, exposure to litigation, and increased operational costs. such events could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. in addition, we could be adversely affected if any of our significant customers or suppliers experiences any similar events that disrupt their business operations or damage their reputation. 10 we may not be able to sustain the improved results of our u.s. window business. our u.s. window business, milgard manufacturing incorporated ( milgard ), has experienced operational issues and production inefficiencies. in addition, milgard's phased deployment of a new erp system to improve its business processes has been complex and requires significant management oversight and resources. while milgard's results are improving, there is no assurance that we will be able to sustain this improvement or that our turnaround plan will continue to be successful. milgard has also been affected by a shortage of qualified personnel in certain geographic areas. if milgard experiences unanticipated expenses, setbacks or additional disruptions to its operations , our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected . claims and litigation could be costly. we are involved in various claims and litigation, including class actions and regulatory proceedings, that arise in the ordinary course of our business and that could have a material adverse effect on us. the types of matters may include, among others: competition, product liability, employment, warranty, advertising, contract, personal injury , environmental, intellectual property, and insurance coverage. given the inherently unpredictable nature of claims and litigation, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any such matter. defending and resolving claims and litigation can be costly and can divert management's attention. we have and may continue to incur significant costs as a result of claims and litigation. we are also subject to product safety regulations, recalls and direct claims for product liability that can result in significant costs and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, create adverse publicity and damage the reputation of our brands and business. also, we rely on other manufacturers to provide products or components for products that we sell. due to the difficulty of controlling the quality of products and components sourced from other manufacturers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products and to limitations on our recourse against such suppliers. we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the risks of loss resulting from claims and litigation. the levels of insurance we maintain may not be adequate to fully cover any and all losses or liabilities. if any significant accident, judgment, claim or other event is not fully insured or indemnified against, it could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. refer to note to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report for additional information about litigation involving our businesses. compliance with laws, government regulation and industry standards could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. we are subject to a wide variety of federal, state, local and foreign government laws and regulations, including securities laws, tax laws, anti-bribery/anti-corruption laws and employment laws, as well as those pertaining to health and safety (including protection of employees and consumers), product compliance, competition practices, import and export regulations, data privacy and the collection and storage of information, climate change and environmental issues. in addition to complying with current requirements and requirements that will become effective at a future date, even more stringent requirements could be imposed on us in the future. as we sell new types of products or existing products in new geographic areas, our failure to comply with the requirements applicable to those products or regions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. additionally, some of our products must be certified by industry organizations. compliance with these laws, regulations and industry standards may require us to alter our product designs, our manufacturing processes, our packaging or our sourcing. compliance activities are costly and require significant management attention and resources. if we do not effectively and timely comply with such regulations and industry standards, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. we may not be able to adequately protect or prevent the unauthorized use of our intellectual property. protecting our intellectual property is important to our growth and innovation efforts. we own a number of patents, trade names, brand names and other forms of intellectual property in our products and manufacturing processes throughout the world. there can be no assurance that our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights will prevent violations. our intellectual property may be challenged or infringed upon by third parties, particularly in countries where property rights are not highly developed or protected. in addition, the global nature of our business increases the risk that we may be unable to obtain or maintain our intellectual property rights on reasonable terms. furthermore, others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us. current and former employees, contractors or suppliers 11 have or may have had access to proprietary or confidential information regarding our business operations that could harm us if used by, or disclosed to others, including our competitors. protecting and defending our intellectual property could be costly, time consuming and require significant resources. if we are not able to protect our existing intellectual property rights, or prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property, sales of our products may be affected and we may experience reputational damage to our brand names, increased litigation costs and adverse impact to our competitive position, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. restrictive covenants in our credit agreement could limit our financial flexibility. we must comply with both financial and nonfinancial covenants in our credit agreement, and in order to borrow under it, we cannot be in default with any of those provisions. our ability to borrow under the credit agreement could be affected if our earnings significantly decline to a level where we are not in compliance with the financial covenants or if we default on any nonfinancial covenants. in the past, we have been able to amend the covenants in our credit agreement, but there can be no assurance that in the future we would be able to further amend them. if we were unable to borrow under our credit agreement, our financial flexibility could be restricted . quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we have considered the provisions of accounting guidance regarding disclosure of accounting policies for derivative financial instruments and disclosure of quantitative and qualitative information about market risk inherent in derivative financial instruments and other financial instruments. we are exposed to the impact of changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes between the u.s. dollar and the european euro, british pound, and canadian dollar, and to market price fluctuations related to our financial investments. we have involvement with derivative financial instruments and use such instruments to the extent necessary to manage exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. refer to note e to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our derivative instruments. at december 31, 2017 , we performed sensitivity analyses to assess the potential loss in the fair values of market risk sensitive instruments resulting from a hypothetical change of 10 percent in foreign currency exchange rates, a 10 percent decline in the market value of our long-term investments, or a 100 basis point change in interest rates. based upon the analyses performed, such changes would not be expected to materially affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 34risk factors. there are a number of business risks and uncertainties that could affect our business. these risks and uncertainties could cause our actual results to differ from past performance or expected results. we consider the following risks and uncertainties to be most relevant to our specific business activities. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, also may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial position. our business relies on residential repair and remodeling activity and, to a lesser extent, on new home construction activity, both of which are cyclical. our business relies on residential repair and remodeling activity and, to a lesser extent, on new home construction activity. a number of factors affect consumers' spending on home improvement projects as well as new home construction activity, including: consumer confidence levels; fluctuations in home prices; existing home sales; unemployment and underemployment levels; consumer income and debt levels; household formation; the availability of home equity loans and mortgages and the interest rates for and tax deductibility of such loans; the availability of skilled tradespeople for repair and remodeling work; trends in lifestyle and housing design; and weather and natural disasters. the fundamentals driving our business are cyclical, fluctuating with economic cycles. adverse changes or uncertainty involving the factors listed above or an economic downturn in the united states or worldwide could result in a decline in spending on residential repair and remodeling activity and a decline in demand for new home construction, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. we could lose market share if we do not maintain our strong brands, develop new products or respond to changing purchasing practices and consumer preferences or if our reputation is damaged. our competitive advantage is due, in part, to our ability to maintain our strong brands and to develop and introduce innovative new and improved products. while we continue to invest in brand building and brand awareness, these initiatives may not be successful. the uncertainties associated with developing and introducing new and improved products, such as gauging changing consumer preferences and successfully developing, manufacturing, marketing and selling these products, may impact the success of our product introductions. if we do not introduce new or improved products in a timely manner or if these products do not gain widespread acceptance, we could lose market share, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. it is also possible that our competitors may improve their products more rapidly or effectively than we do, which could adversely affect our market share. in recent years, consumer purchasing practices and preferences have shifted and our customers' business models and strategies have changed. as our customers execute their strategies to reach end consumers through multiple channels, they rely on us to support their efforts with our infrastructure, including maintaining robust and user-friendly websites with sufficient content for consumer research and providing comprehensive supply chain solutions and differentiated product development. if we are unable to successfully provide this support to our customers or if our customers are unable to successfully execute their strategies, our brands may lose market share. if we do not timely and effectively identify and respond to changing consumer purchasing practices, including an increase in e-commerce, and consumer preferences, our relationships with our customers and with consumers could be harmed, the demand for our brands and products could be reduced and our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. 6 our public image and reputation are important to maintaining our strong brands and could be adversely affected by various factors, including product quality and service, claims and comments in social media or the press, or negative publicity regarding disputes or legal action against us, even if unfounded. damage to our public image or reputation could adversely affect our sales and results of operations and financial position. we face significant competition and operate in an evolving competitive landscape. our products face significant competition. we believe that brand reputation is an important factor affecting product selection and that we compete on the basis of product features and innovation, product quality, customer service, warranty and price. we sell many of our products through home center retailers, online retailers, distributors and independent dealers and rely on these customers to market and promote our products to consumers. our success with our customers is dependent on our ability to provide quality products and timely delivery. in addition, home center retailers, which have historically concentrated their sales efforts on retail consumers and remodelers, are increasingly selling directly to professional contractors and installers, which may adversely affect our margins on our products that contractors and installers would otherwise buy through our dealers and wholesalers. we also compete with low cost foreign manufacturers and private label brands sold by our customers in a variety of our product groups. as market dynamics change, we may experience a shift in the mix of some products we sell toward more value priced or opening price point products, which may affect our profitability. further, as the e commerce channel expands, greater pricing transparency for consumers, continuing conflicts between our existing distribution channels and a need for different distribution methods could affect our results of operations and financial position. in addition, our relationships with our customers, including our home center customers, may be affected if we increase the amount of business we transact in the e-commerce channel. if we are unable to maintain our competitive position in our industries , our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. our sales are concentrated with two significant customers. our sales are concentrated with our two largest customers. in 2018 , our net sales to the home depot were $2.7 billion (approximately 32 percent of our consolidated net sales), and our net sales to lowe's were less than 10 percent of our consolidated net sales. our reliance on these significant customers may further increase if the mix of our business operations changes, including as a result of acquisitions or divestitures. these home center retailers can significantly affect the prices we receive for our products and the terms and conditions on which we do business with them. additionally, these home center retailers may reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase and could make significant changes in their volume of purchases from us. although other retailers, dealers, distributors and homebuilders represent other channels of distribution for our products and services, we might not be able to quickly replace, if at all, the loss of a substantial portion of our sales to the home depot or the loss of all of our sales to lowe's, and any such loss would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. in addition, these home center retailers are granted product exclusivity from time to time, which affects our ability to sell products to other customers and increases the complexity of our product offerings and our costs. variability in commodity costs, limited availability of commodities and increasing tariffs could affect our results of operations and financial position. various commodities, including, among others, brass, resins, titanium dioxide, zinc, wood and glass, are used to produce our products. fluctuations in the availability and prices of these commodities have in the past and could increase the costs of our products. our production of products could be affected if we or our suppliers are unable to procure our requirements for these commodities or if a shortage of these commodities drives their prices to levels that are not commercially feasible. further, the cost of certain of our raw materials and finished goods is increasing as a result of new tariffs. tariffs and rising energy costs could increase our production and transportation costs . in addition, water is a significant component of our architectural coatings products and may be subject to restrictions in certain regions. these factors could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. 7 it can be difficult for us to pass on to customers our cost increases. our existing arrangements with customers, competitive considerations and customer resistance to price increases may delay or make us unable to adjust selling prices. if we are not able to sufficiently increase the prices of our products or achieve cost savings to offset increased commodity and production costs, including the impact of increasing tariffs, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. if we are able to increase our selling prices, sustained price increases for our products may lead to sales declines and loss of market share, particularly if our competitors do not increase their prices. when commodity prices decline, we have experienced and may in the future receive pressure from our customers to reduce our prices. such reductions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. from time to time we enter into long-term agreements with certain significant suppliers to help ensure continued availability of key commodities and to establish firm pricing, but at times these contractual commitments may result in our paying above market prices for commodities during the term of the contract. occasionally, we may also use derivative instruments, including commodity futures and swaps. this strategy increases the possibility that we may make commitments for these commodities at prices that subsequently exceed their market prices, which has occurred and could occur in the future and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. we are dependent on third-party suppliers. we are dependent on third party suppliers for many of our products and components, and our ability to offer a wide variety of products depends on our ability to obtain an adequate and timely supply of these products and components. failure of our suppliers to timely provide us quality products on commercially reasonable terms, or to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, or our policies regarding our supplier business practices, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position or could damage our reputation. sourcing these products and components from another supplier is time-consuming and costly. accordingly, the loss of critical suppliers, or a substantial decrease in the availability of products or components from our suppliers, could disrupt our business and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. many of the suppliers we rely upon are located in foreign countries. the differences in business practices, shipping and delivery requirements, changes in economic conditions and trade policies and laws and regulations, together with the limited number of suppliers, have increased the complexity of our supply chain logistics and the potential for interruptions in our production scheduling. if we are unable to effectively manage our supply chain or if there is a disruption in transporting the products or components, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. there are risks associated with our international operations and global strategies. in 2018, 19 percent of our sales are made outside of north america (principally in europe) and are transacted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. in addition to our european operations, we manufacture products in asia and source products and components from third parties globally. risks associated with our international operations include changes in political, monetary and social environments, economic conditions, labor conditions and practices, the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, social and political unrest, terrorist attacks, cultural differences and differences in enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. we are also affected by laws applicable to u.s. companies doing business abroad or importing goods and materials. these include tax laws, laws regulating competition, anti bribery/anti corruption and other business practices, and trade regulations, including duties and tariffs. compliance with these laws are costly, and future changes to these laws may require significant management attention and disrupt our operations. additionally, while it is difficult to assess what changes may occur and the relative effect on our international tax structure, significant changes in how u.s. and foreign jurisdictions tax cross border transactions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. our results of operations and financial position are also impacted by changes in currency exchange rates. unfavorable currency exchange rates, particularly the euro, the british pound sterling, the canadian dollar and the chinese yuan renminbi, have in the past adversely affected us, and could adversely affect us in the future. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may present challenges in comparing operating performance from period to period. additionally, as the situation involving the united kingdom's decision to exit from the european union develops, we could experience volatility in the currency exchange rates or a change in the demand for our products and services, particularly in our u.k. and european markets, or there could be disruption of our operations and our customers' and suppliers' businesses. 8 we may not achieve all of the anticipated benefits of our strategic initiatives. we continue to pursue our strategic initiatives of investing in our brands, developing innovative products, and focusing on operational excellence through the masco operating system, our methodology to drive growth and productivity. all of these initiatives are designed to grow revenue, improve profitability and increase shareholder value over the mid to long term. our business performance and results could be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully execute these initiatives or if we are unable to execute these initiatives in a timely and efficient manner. we could also be adversely affected if we have not appropriately prioritized and balanced our initiatives or if we are unable to effectively manage change throughout our organization. we may not be able to successfully execute our acquisition strategy or integrate businesses that we acquire. pursuing the acquisition of businesses complementary to our portfolio is a component of our strategy for future growth. if we are not able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or consummate potential acquisitions at acceptable terms and prices, our long term competitive positioning may be affected. even if we are successful in acquiring businesses, we may experience risks in integrating these businesses into our existing business. such risks include difficulties realizing expected synergies and economies of scale, diversion of our resources, unforeseen liabilities, issues or conflicts with our new or existing customers or suppliers, and difficulties in retaining critical employees of the acquired businesses. future foreign acquisitions may also increase our exposure to foreign currency risks and risks associated with interpretation and enforcement of foreign regulations. our failure to address these risks could cause us to incur additional costs and fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. the long-term performance of our businesses relies on our ability to attract, develop and retain talented personnel. to be successful, we must attract, develop and retain highly qualified , talented and diverse personnel who have the experience, knowledge and expertise to successfully implement our key strategic initiatives. we compete for employees with a broad range of employers in many different industries, including large multinational firms, and we invest significant resources in recruiting, developing, motivating and retaining them. from time to time, we have been affected by a shortage of qualified personnel in certain geographic areas. our growth, competitive position and results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected by our failure to attract, develop and retain key employees, to build strong leadership teams, or to develop effective succession planning to assure smooth transitions of those employees and the knowledge and expertise they possess, or by a shortage of qualified personnel. we rely on information systems and technology, and a breakdown of these systems could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. we rely on many information systems and technology to process, transmit, store and manage information to support our business activities. we may be adversely affected if our information systems breakdown, fail, or are no longer supported. in addition to the consequences that may occur from interruptions in our systems, increased global cybersecurity vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted attacks pose a risk to our information technology systems. we have implemented security policies, processes and layers of defense designed to help identify and protect against intentional and unintentional misappropriation or corruption of our systems and information and disruption of our operations. despite these efforts, our systems have been and in the future may be damaged, disrupted, or shut down due to cybersecurity attacks by unauthorized access, malicious software, undetected intrusion, hardware failures, or other events, and in these circumstances our disaster recovery plans may be ineffective or inadequate. these breaches or intrusions could lead to business interruption, exposure of proprietary or confidential information, data corruption, damage to the reputation of our brands, damage to our relationships with our customers and suppliers, exposure to litigation, and increased operational costs. such events could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. in addition, we could be adversely affected if any of our significant customers or suppliers experiences any similar events that disrupt their business operations or damage their reputation. 9 we may not experience the anticipated benefits from our investments in new technology. we continue to invest in new technology systems throughout our company, including implementations of enterprise resource planning ( erp ) systems at our business units. erp implementations are complex and require significant management oversight. while we are leveraging our experience and engaging consultants to assist as we deploy erp systems, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, unanticipated expenses and interruptions to our operations during these implementations. these interruptions could affect our ability to produce and ship goods to our customers or to timely report financial results and the effectiveness of our internal controls. our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected if we do not appropriately select and implement our new technology systems in a timely manner or if we experience significant unanticipated expenses or disruptions in connection with the implementation of erp systems. claims and litigation could be costly. we are involved in various claims and litigation, including class actions and regulatory proceedings, that arise in the ordinary course of our business and that could have a material adverse effect on us. the types of matters may include, among others: competition, product liability, employment, warranty, advertising, contract, personal injury , environmental, intellectual property, product compliance and insurance coverage. the outcome and effect of these matters are inherently unpredictable, and defending and resolving them can be costly and can divert management's attention. we have and may continue to incur significant costs as a result of claims and litigation. we are also subject to product safety regulations, recalls and direct claims for product liability that can result in significant costs and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, create adverse publicity and damage the reputation of our brands and business. also, we rely on other manufacturers to provide products or components for products that we sell. due to the difficulty of controlling the quality of products and components we source from other manufacturers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products and to limitations on our recourse against such suppliers. we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the risks of loss resulting from claims and litigation. the levels of insurance we maintain may not be adequate to fully cover our losses or liabilities. if any significant accident, judgment, claim or other event is not fully insured or indemnified against, it could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. refer to note t to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report for additional information about litigation involving our businesses. compliance with laws, government regulation and industry standards is costly, and our failure to comply could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. we are subject to a wide variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations pertaining to: securities matters; taxation; anti-bribery/anti-corruption; employment matters; health and safety; the protection of employees and consumers; product compliance; competition practices; trade, including duties and tariffs; data privacy and the collection and storage of information; and climate change and environmental issues. in addition to complying with current requirements and known future requirements, even more stringent requirements could be imposed on us in the future. as we sell new types of products or existing products in new geographic areas, our failure to comply with the requirements applicable to those products or regions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. additionally, some of our products must be certified by industry organizations. compliance with new or changed laws, regulations and industry standards may require us to alter our product designs, our manufacturing processes, our packaging or our sourcing. compliance activities are costly and 10 require significant management attention and resources. if we do not effectively and timely comply with such regulations and industry standards, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. we may not be able to adequately protect or prevent the unauthorized use of our intellectual property. protecting our intellectual property is important to our growth and innovation efforts. we own a number of patents, trade names, brand names and other forms of intellectual property in our products and manufacturing processes throughout the world. there can be no assurance that our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights will prevent violations. our intellectual property may be challenged or infringed upon by third parties, particularly in countries where property rights are not highly developed or protected. in addition, the global nature of our business increases the risk that we may be unable to obtain or maintain our intellectual property rights on reasonable terms. furthermore, others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us. current and former employees, contractors or suppliers have or may have had access to proprietary or confidential information regarding our business operations that could harm us if used by, or disclosed to others, including our competitors. protecting and defending our intellectual property could be costly, time consuming and require significant resources. if we are not able to protect our existing intellectual property rights, or prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property, sales of our products may be affected and we may experience reputational damage to our brand names, increased litigation costs and adverse impact to our competitive position, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. restrictive covenants in our credit agreement could limit our financial flexibility. we must comply with both financial and nonfinancial covenants in our credit agreement, and in order to borrow under it, we cannot be in default with any of those provisions. our ability to borrow under the credit agreement could be affected if our earnings significantly decline to a level where we are not in compliance with the financial covenants or if we default on any nonfinancial covenants. in the past, we have been able to amend the covenants in our credit agreement, but there can be no assurance that in the future we would be able to further amend them. if we were unable to borrow under our credit agreement, our financial flexibility could be restricted . quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we have considered the provisions of accounting guidance regarding disclosure of accounting policies for derivative financial instruments and disclosure of quantitative and qualitative information about market risk inherent in derivative financial instruments and other financial instruments. we are exposed to the impact of changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes between the u.s. dollar and the european euro, british pound, and canadian dollar, and to market price fluctuations related to our financial investments. we have involvement with derivative financial instruments and use such instruments to the extent necessary to manage exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. refer to note f to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our derivative instruments. at december 31, 2018 , we performed sensitivity analyses to assess the potential loss in the fair values of market risk sensitive instruments resulting from a hypothetical change of 10 percent in foreign currency exchange rates, a 10 percent decline in the market value of our long-term investments, or a 100 basis point change in interest rates. based upon the analyses performed, such changes would not be expected to materially affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 33risk factors. there are a number of business risks and uncertainties that could affect our business. these risks and uncertainties could cause our actual results to differ from past performance or expected results. we consider the following risks and uncertainties to be most relevant to our specific business activities. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, also may adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial position. our business relies on residential repair and remodeling activity and, to a lesser extent, on new home construction activity, both of which are impacted by a number of economic factors and the housing market. our business relies on residential repair and remodeling activity and, to a lesser extent, on new home construction activity. a number of factors impact consumers' spending on home improvement projects as well as new home construction activity, including: consumer confidence levels; fluctuations in home prices; existing home sales; unemployment and underemployment levels; consumer income and debt levels; household formation; the availability of home equity loans and mortgages and the interest rates for and tax deductibility of such loans; the availability of skilled tradespeople for repair and remodeling work; trends in lifestyle and housing design; and weather and natural disasters. the fundamentals driving our business are impacted by economic cycles. adverse changes or uncertainty involving the factors listed above or an economic downturn in the united states or worldwide could result in a decline in spending on residential repair and remodeling activity and a decline in demand for new home construction, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. we could lose market share if we do not maintain our strong brands, develop innovative products or respond to changing purchasing practices and consumer preferences or if our reputation is damaged. our competitive advantage is due, in part, to our ability to maintain our strong brands and to develop and introduce innovative new and improved products. our initiatives to invest in brand building, brand awareness and product innovation may not be successful. the uncertainties associated with developing and introducing innovative and improved products, such as gauging changing consumer demands and preferences and successfully developing, manufacturing, marketing and selling these products, may impact the success of our product introductions. if the products we introduce do not gain widespread acceptance or if our competitors improve their products more rapidly or effectively than we do, we could lose market share or be required to reduce our prices, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. in recent years, consumer purchasing practices and preferences have shifted and our customers' business models and strategies have changed. as our customers execute their strategies to reach end consumers through multiple channels, they rely on us to support their efforts with our infrastructure, including maintaining robust and user-friendly websites with sufficient content for consumer research and providing comprehensive supply chain solutions and differentiated product development. if we are unable to successfully provide this support to our customers or if our customers are unable to successfully execute their strategies, our brands may lose market share. if we do not timely and effectively identify and respond to changing consumer preferences, including a shift in consumer purchasing practices toward e-commerce, our relationships with our customers and with consumers could be harmed, the demand for our brands and products could be reduced and our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. our public image and reputation are important to maintaining our strong brands and could be adversely affected by various factors, including product quality and service, claims and comments in social media or the press, or negative publicity regarding disputes or legal action against us, even if unfounded. damage to our public image or reputation could adversely affect our sales and results of operations and financial position. 5 we face significant competition and operate in an evolving competitive landscape. our products face significant competition. we believe that brand reputation is an important factor affecting product selection and that we compete on the basis of product features, innovation, quality, customer service, warranty and price. we sell many of our products through home center retailers, online retailers, distributors and independent dealers and rely on these customers to market and promote our products to consumers. our success with our customers is dependent on our ability to provide quality products and timely delivery. in addition, home center retailers, which have historically concentrated their sales efforts on retail consumers and remodelers, are increasingly selling directly to professional contractors and installers, which may adversely affect our margins on our products that contractors and installers would otherwise buy through our dealers and wholesalers. certain of our customers are increasingly selling products sourced from low cost foreign manufacturers under their own private label brands, which directly compete with our brands. as this trend continues, we may experience lower demand for our products or a shift in the mix of some products we sell toward more value priced or opening price point products, which may affect our profitability. in addition, we face competitive pricing pressure in the marketplace, including sales promotion programs, that could affect our market share or result in price reductions, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. further, the growing e commerce channel brings an increased number of competitors and greater pricing transparency for consumers, as well as conflicts between our existing distribution channels and a need for different distribution methods. these factors could affect our results of operations and financial position. in addition, our relationships with our customers, including our home center customers, may be affected if we increase the amount of business we transact in the e-commerce channel. if we are unable to maintain our competitive position in our industries , our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. our sales are concentrated with two significant customers. as a result of the divestiture of our windows business in 2019 and the expected divestiture of our cabinetry business, the mix of our business operations has changed and the concentration of our sales to our two largest customers has increased and may continue to increase. in 2019 , our net sales from our continuing operations to the home depot were $2.5 billion (approximately 37 percent of our consolidated net sales), and our net sales from our continuing operations to lowe's were less than 10 percent of our consolidated net sales. these home center retailers can significantly affect the prices we receive for our products and the terms and conditions on which we do business with them. additionally, these home center retailers may reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase and could make significant changes in their volume of purchases from us. although other retailers, dealers, distributors and homebuilders represent other channels of distribution for our products and services, we might not be able to quickly replace, if at all, the loss of a substantial portion of our sales to the home depot or the loss of all of our sales to lowe's, and any such loss would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. in addition, these home center retailers are granted product exclusivity from time to time, which affects our ability to sell products to other customers and increases the complexity of our product offerings and our costs. variability in the cost of our raw materials, component parts and finished goods, including the imposition of tariffs could affect our results of operations and financial position. we purchase substantial amounts of raw materials, component parts and finished goods from outside sources, including international sources, and we manufacture certain of our products outside of the united states. increases in the cost of the materials we purchase have in the past and may in the future increase the prices for our products, including as a result of new significant tariffs. for example, the recent trade dispute between the united states and china has resulted in increased tariffs which raised the cost of certain of our materials. there is a risk that additional tariffs on imports from china or new tariffs could be imposed, which could further increase the cost of the materials we purchase or import or the products we manufacture internationally. further, our production could be affected if we or our suppliers are unable to procure our requirements for various commodities, including, among others, brass, resins, titanium dioxide and zinc, or if a shortage of these commodities results in significantly increased costs. rising energy costs could also increase our production and transportation costs . in addition, water is a significant component of our architectural coatings products and may be subject to restrictions in certain regions. these factors could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. 6 it can be difficult for us to pass on to customers our cost increases. our existing arrangements with customers, competitive considerations and customer resistance to price increases may delay or make us unable to adjust selling prices. if we are not able to sufficiently increase the prices of our products or achieve cost savings to offset increased material and production costs, including the impact of increasing tariffs, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. increased selling prices for our products have and may in the future lead to sales declines and loss of market share, particularly if those prices are not competitive. when our material costs decline, we have experienced and may in the future receive pressure from our customers to reduce our prices. such reductions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. from time to time we enter into long-term agreements with certain significant suppliers to help ensure continued availability of the commodities we require to produce our products and to establish firm pricing, but at times these contractual commitments may result in our paying above market prices for commodities during the term of the contract. occasionally, we may also use derivative instruments, including commodity futures and swaps. this strategy increases the possibility that we may make commitments for these commodities at prices that subsequently exceed their market prices, which has occurred and could occur in the future and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. we are dependent on third-party suppliers. we are dependent on third party suppliers for many of our products and components, and our ability to offer a wide variety of products depends on our ability to obtain an adequate and timely supply of these products and components. failure of our suppliers to timely provide us quality products on commercially reasonable terms, or to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, or our policies regarding our supplier business practices, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position or could damage our reputation. sourcing these products and components from alternate suppliers, including suppliers from new geographic regions, is time-consuming and costly and could result in inefficiencies or delays in our business operations. accordingly, the loss of critical suppliers, or a substantial decrease in the availability of products or components from our suppliers, could disrupt our business and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. many of the suppliers we rely upon are located in foreign countries. the differences in business practices, shipping and delivery requirements, changes in economic conditions and trade policies and laws and regulations, together with the limited number of suppliers, have increased the complexity of our supply chain logistics and the potential for interruptions in our production scheduling. if we are unable to effectively manage our supply chain or if there is a disruption in transporting the products or components, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. there are risks associated with our international operations and global strategies. in 2019, 21 percent of our sales from continuing operations were made outside of north america (principally in europe) and transacted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. in addition to our european operations, we manufacture products in asia and source products and components from third parties globally. risks associated with our international operations include changes in political, monetary and social environments, economic conditions, labor conditions and practices, the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, social and political unrest, terrorist attacks, cultural differences and differences in enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. we are also affected by domestic and international laws applicable to companies doing business abroad or importing and exporting goods and materials. these include tax laws, laws regulating competition, anti bribery/anti corruption and other business practices, and trade regulations, including duties and tariffs. compliance with these laws is costly, and future changes to these laws may require significant management attention and disrupt our operations. additionally, while it is difficult to assess what changes may occur and the relative effect on our international tax structure, significant changes in how u.s. and foreign jurisdictions tax cross border transactions could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. our results of operations and financial position are also impacted by changes in currency exchange rates. unfavorable currency exchange rates, particularly the euro, the british pound sterling, the canadian dollar and the chinese yuan renminbi, have in the past adversely affected us, and could adversely affect us in the future. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may present challenges in comparing operating performance from period to period. additionally, as the situation involving the united kingdom's decision to exit from the european union continues to develop, we could experience volatility in the currency exchange rates or a change in the demand for our products and services, particularly in our u.k. and european markets, or there could be disruption of our operations and our customers' and suppliers' businesses. 7 we may not achieve all of the anticipated benefits of our strategic initiatives. we continue to pursue our strategic initiatives of investing in our brands, developing innovative products, and focusing on operational excellence through the masco operating system, our methodology to drive growth and productivity. these initiatives are designed to grow revenue, improve profitability and increase shareholder value over the mid to long term. our business performance and results could be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully execute these initiatives or if we are unable to execute these initiatives in a timely and efficient manner. we could also be adversely affected if we have not appropriately prioritized and balanced our initiatives or if we are unable to effectively manage change throughout our organization. we may not be able to successfully execute our acquisition strategy or integrate businesses that we acquire. pursuing the acquisition of businesses complementary to our portfolio is a component of our strategy for future growth. if we are not able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or consummate potential acquisitions within a desired time frame or at acceptable terms and prices, our long term competitive positioning may be affected. even if we are successful in acquiring businesses, the businesses we acquire may not be able to achieve the revenue, profitability or growth we anticipate, or we may experience challenges and risks in integrating these businesses into our existing business. such risks include: difficulties realizing expected synergies and economies of scale; diversion of management attention and our resources; unforeseen liabilities; issues or conflicts with our new or existing customers or suppliers; and difficulties in retaining critical employees of the acquired businesses. future foreign acquisitions may also increase our exposure to foreign currency risks and risks associated with interpretation and enforcement of foreign regulations. our failure to address these risks could cause us to incur additional costs and fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. the long-term performance of our businesses relies on our ability to attract, develop and retain talented personnel. to be successful, we must invest significant resources to attract, develop and retain highly qualified , talented and diverse employees at all levels, who have the experience, knowledge and expertise to implement our strategic initiatives. we compete for employees with a broad range of employers in many different industries, including large multinational firms, and we may fail in recruiting, developing, motivating and retaining them, particularly with low unemployment levels in the united states. from time to time, we have been affected by a shortage of qualified personnel in certain geographic areas. our growth, competitive position and results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected by our failure to attract, develop and retain key employees, to build strong leadership teams, or to develop effective succession planning to assure smooth transitions of those employees and the knowledge and expertise they possess, or by a shortage of qualified employees. we rely on information systems and technology, and a breakdown of these systems could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. we rely on many information systems and technology to process, transmit, store and manage information to support our business activities. we may be adversely affected if our information systems breakdown, fail, or are no longer supported. in addition to the consequences that may occur from interruptions in our systems, increased global cybersecurity vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted attacks pose a risk to our information technology systems. we have implemented security policies, processes and layers of defense designed to help identify and protect against intentional and unintentional misappropriation or corruption of our systems and information and disruption of our operations. despite these efforts, our systems have been and may in the future be damaged, disrupted, or shut down due to cybersecurity attacks by unauthorized access, malware, ransomware, undetected intrusion, hardware failures, or other events, and in these circumstances our disaster recovery plans may be ineffective or inadequate. these breaches or intrusions have led and could in the future lead to business interruption, production or operational downtime, product shipment delays, exposure or loss of proprietary, confidential, personal or financial information, data corruption, an inability to report our financial results in a timely manner, damage to the reputation of our brands, damage to our relationships with our customers and suppliers, exposure to litigation, and increased costs associated with the remediation and mitigation of such attacks. such events could adversely affect our results of operations and 8 financial position. in addition, we could be adversely affected if any of our significant customers or suppliers experiences any similar events that disrupt their business operations or damage their reputation. we may not experience the anticipated benefits from our investments in new technology. we continue to invest in new technology systems throughout our company, including implementations of enterprise resource planning ( erp ) systems at our business units. erp implementations are complex and require significant management oversight, and we have experienced, and may continue to experience, unanticipated expenses and interruptions to our operations during these implementations. our results of operations and financial position, as well as the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, could be adversely affected if we do not appropriately select and implement our new technology systems in a timely manner or if we experience significant unanticipated expenses or disruptions in connection with the implementation of erp systems. claims and litigation could be costly. we are involved in various claims and litigation, including class actions, mass torts and regulatory proceedings, that arise in the ordinary course of our business and that could have a material adverse effect on us. the types of matters may include, among others: competition, product liability, employment, warranty, advertising, contract, personal injury , environmental, intellectual property, product compliance and insurance coverage. the outcome and effect of these matters are inherently unpredictable, and defending and resolving them can be costly and can divert management's attention. we have and may continue to incur significant costs as a result of claims and litigation. we are also subject to product safety regulations, product recalls and direct claims for product liability that can result in significant costs and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, create adverse publicity and damage the reputation of our brands and business. also, we rely on other manufacturers to provide products or components for products that we sell. due to the difficulty of controlling the quality of products and components we source from other manufacturers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products and to limitations on our recourse against such suppliers. we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of the risks of loss resulting from claims and litigation. the levels of insurance we maintain may not be adequate to fully cover our losses or liabilities. if any significant accident, judgment, claim or other event is not fully insured or indemnified against, it could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. refer to note t to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report for additional information about litigation involving our businesses. compliance with laws, government regulation and industry standards is costly, and our failure to comply could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. we are subject to a wide variety of federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations pertaining to: securities matters; taxation; anti-bribery/anti-corruption; employment matters; minimum wage requirements; health and safety; the protection of employees and consumers; product compliance; competition practices; trade, including duties and tariffs; data privacy and the collection and storage of information; and climate change and environmental issues. in addition to complying with current requirements and known future requirements, even more stringent requirements could be imposed on us in the future. as we sell new types of products or existing products in new geographic areas or channels or for new applications, we are subject to the requirements applicable to those sales. additionally, some of our products must be certified by industry organizations. compliance with new or changed laws, regulations and industry standards may require us to alter our product designs, our manufacturing processes, our packaging or our sourcing. these compliance activities are costly and require significant management attention and resources. if we do not effectively and timely comply with such regulations and industry standards, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. 9 we may not be able to adequately protect or prevent the unauthorized use of our intellectual property. protecting our intellectual property is important to our growth and innovation efforts. we own a number of patents, trade names, brand names and other forms of intellectual property in our products and manufacturing processes throughout the world. there can be no assurance that our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights will prevent violations. our intellectual property has been and may again be challenged or infringed upon by third parties, particularly in countries where property rights are not highly developed or protected. in addition, the global nature of our business increases the risk that we may be unable to obtain or maintain our intellectual property rights on reasonable terms. furthermore, others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us. current and former employees, contractors, customers or suppliers have or may have had access to proprietary or confidential information regarding our business operations that could harm us if used by them, or disclosed to others, including our competitors. protecting and defending our intellectual property could be costly, time consuming and require significant resources. if we are not able to protect our existing intellectual property rights, or prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property, sales of our products may be affected and we may experience reputational damage to our brand names, increased litigation costs and adverse impact to our competitive position, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. restrictive covenants in our credit agreement could limit our financial flexibility. we must comply with both financial and nonfinancial covenants in our credit agreement, and in order to borrow under it, we cannot be in default with any of those provisions. our ability to borrow under the credit agreement could be affected if our earnings significantly decline to a level where we are not in compliance with the financial covenants or if we default on any nonfinancial covenants. in the past, we have been able to amend the covenants in our credit agreement, but there can be no assurance that in the future we would be able to further amend them. if we were unable to borrow under our credit agreement, our financial flexibility could be restricted . quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we have considered the provisions of accounting guidance regarding disclosure of accounting policies for derivative financial instruments and disclosure of quantitative and qualitative information about market risk inherent in derivative financial instruments and other financial instruments. we are exposed to the impact of changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes between the u.s. dollar and the european euro, british pound, and canadian dollar, and to market price fluctuations related to our financial investments. we have insignificant involvement with derivative financial instruments and use such instruments to the extent necessary to manage exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. at december 31, 2019 , we performed sensitivity analyses to assess the potential loss in the fair values of market risk sensitive instruments resulting from a hypothetical change of 10 percent in foreign currency exchange rates, a 10 percent decline in the market value of our long-term investments, or a 100 basis point change in interest rates. based upon the analyses performed, such changes would not be expected to materially affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 30risk factors. there are a number of business risks and uncertainties that have affected and may continue to affect our business. these risks and uncertainties have negatively impacted our current results and could cause our future results to differ from past performance or expected results, including results described in statements elsewhere in this report that constitute forward-looking statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. the effect on us of certain of these risk factors is discussed below under item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, also may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. these risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following, which we consider to be most relevant to our specific business activities. 7 table of contents a significant portion of our business relies on home improvement and new home construction activity levels, both of which have experienced a significant downturn. a significant portion of our business relies on home improvement (including repair and remodeling) and new home construction activity levels, principally in north america and europe. the new home construction market, which is cyclical in nature, has undergone a significant downturn marked by declines in the demand for new homes, an oversupply of new and existing homes on the market and a reduction in the availability of financing for homebuyers. the oversupply of existing homes held for sale has been exacerbated by a growing number of home mortgage foreclosures, which has contributed to the downward pressure on home prices. unlike most previous cyclical declines in new home construction, this economic decline has also adversely affected our home improvement businesses. low levels of consumer confidence and the downward pressure on home prices have made it much more difficult for homeowners to make additional investments in their homes, such as kitchen and bath remodeling projects. further, disruptions in the credit markets have limited the ability of consumers to finance home improvements. we believe that, during the third and fourth quarters of 2009, there have been some signs of stabilization in our markets and we continue to believe that the long-term outlook for the home improvement and new home construction markets is favorable. however, we cannot predict the type, timing or strength of a recovery in our markets. depressed activity levels in consumer spending for home improvements and new home construction have adversely affected our results of operations and our financial position. furthermore, the economic turmoil has caused certain shifts in consumer preferences and purchasing practices and has resulted in changes in the business models and strategies of our customers. such shifts, which may or may not be long-term, have altered the nature and prices of products demanded by the end-consumer and our customers. if we do not timely and effectively respond to these changing consumer preferences, our relationships with our customers could be adversely affected, the demand for our products could be reduced and our market share could be negatively affected. a prolonged economic downturn could reduce our financial resources and flexibility. the valuation of assets on our balance sheet, particularly goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets, is largely dependent upon the expectations for future performance of our businesses. a further decline in the expectation of our future performance or a continuation of the adverse conditions in the new home construction markets may cause us to recognize non-cash impairment charges, which are not determinable at this time, for certain long-lived assets, including goodwill, and could result in a reduction in our shareholders equity in the future. such a reduction in our shareholders equity may limit our borrowing capacity under our existing five-year revolving credit agreement. we rely on key customers and may encounter conflicts within and between our distribution channels. the size and importance of individual customers to our businesses has increased as customers in our major distribution channels have consolidated or exited the business. larger customers can make significant changes in their volume of purchases and can otherwise significantly affect the prices we receive for our products and services, our costs of doing business with them and the terms and conditions on which we do business. sales of our home improvement and building products to home center retailers are substantial. in 2009, sales to our largest customer, the home depot, were $2.1 billion (approximately 26 percent of our consolidated net sales). lowe is our second largest customer. in 2009, our sales to lowe were less than 10 percent of our consolidated net sales. although homebuilders, dealers and other retailers represent other channels of distribution for our products and services, the loss of a substantial portion of our sales to the home depot or the loss of our sales to lowe would have a material adverse effect on our business. as some of our customers expand their markets and their targeted customers, conflicts between our existing distribution channels have occurred, and will continue to occur. in addition, we may undermine the 8 table of contents business relationships we have with customers who purchase our products through traditional wholesale channels as we increase the amount of business we transact directly with our larger customers. in addition, our large retail customers are increasingly requesting product exclusivity, which may affect the products we can offer to other customers. our principal markets are highly competitive. the major geographic markets for our products and services are highly competitive and, in recent years, competition has intensified significantly. competition is further intensified during economic downturns. home center retailers are increasing their purchases of products directly from manufacturers, particularly low-cost suppliers in asia, for sale as private label and house brand merchandise. also, home center retailers, which have historically concentrated their sales efforts on retail consumers and remodelers, are increasingly turning their marketing efforts directly toward professional contractors and installers. we believe that competition in our industries is based largely on price, product and service quality, brand reputation, customer service and product features and innovation. although the relative importance of such factors varies among customers and product categories, price is often a primary factor. in addition to the challenges we have faced as a result of the economic downturn in our markets, our ability to maintain our competitive positions in our markets and to grow our businesses depends to a large extent upon successfully maintaining our relationships with major customers, implementing growth strategies in our existing markets and entering new geographic markets, capitalizing on and strengthening our brand names, managing our cost structure, accommodating shorter life-cycles for our products and product development and innovation. the cost and availability of materials and the performance of our supply chain affect our operating results. it has been, and likely will continue to be, difficult for us to pass on to customers cost increases for commodities or other materials that are major components of our products or services. in addition, we may incur substantial costs as part of our strategy to hedge against price volatility of certain commodities we purchase and we may make commitments to purchase supplies at prices that subsequently exceed their market prices. delays in adjusting, or in our inability to adjust, selling prices may be due to factors such as our existing arrangements with customers, competitive considerations and customer resistance to price increases. further, when commodity prices decline, we receive pressure from our customers to reduce prices for our products and services. changes in energy costs and certain commodities not only impact our production costs, but also the cost to transport our products. we manufacture products in asia and source products and components from third parties in asia. the distances involved in these arrangements, together with differences in business practices, shipping and delivery requirements, the limited number of suppliers, and laws and regulations, have increased the difficulty of managing our supply chain, the complexity of our supply chain logistics and the potential for interruptions in our production scheduling. we rely heavily or exclusively on outside suppliers for certain of our products or key components. if there is an interruption in these sources of supply, we may experience difficulty or delay in substituting alternatives and our business may be disrupted. international political, monetary, economic and social developments affect our business. over 21 percent of our sales are derived outside of north america (principally in europe) and are transacted in currencies other than u.s. dollars (principally european euros and great britain pounds). in addition, we manufacture products in asia and source products and components from third parties in asia. our international business faces risks associated with changes in political, monetary, economic and social environments, labor conditions and practices, the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, cultural differences and differences in enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. u.s. laws affecting activities of u.s. companies doing business abroad, including tax laws and laws regulating various 9 table of contents business practices, also impact our international business. our international operating results may be influenced, when compared to our north american results, in part due to relative economic conditions in the european markets and due to competitive pricing pressures on certain products. the financial reporting of our consolidated operating results is affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may present challenges in comparing operating performance from period to period and in forecasting future performance. we have financial commitments and investments in financial assets, including assets that are not readily marketable and involve financial risk. we have maintained investments in available-for-sale securities (including marketable and auction rate securities) and a number of private equity funds, although we are reducing such investments. since there is no active trading market for investments in private equity funds, they are for the most part illiquid. these investments, by their nature, can also have a relatively higher degree of business risk, including financial leverage, than other financial investments. future changes in market conditions, the future performance of the underlying investments or new information provided by private equity fund managers could affect the recorded values of such investments or the amounts realized upon liquidation. in addition, we have commitments that require us to contribute additional capital to these private equity funds upon receipt of a capital call from the private equity fund. the decline in economic conditions in 2008 resulted in the decline in the value of our investments in debt and equity securities, including assets held in our pension plans. at december 31, 2009, the fair value of such investments and assets remains at reduced levels. claims and litigation could be costly. we are, from time to time, involved in various claims, litigation matters and regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business and which could have a material adverse effect on us. these matters may include contract disputes, personal injury claims, warranty disputes, environmental claims or proceedings, other tort claims, employment and tax matters and other proceedings and litigation, including class actions. in recent years, we have experienced class action lawsuits predicated upon claims for antitrust violations, product liability and wage and hour issues. we have generally denied liability and have vigorously defended these cases. due to their scope and complexity, however, such lawsuits are particularly costly to resolve and significant exposures have been alleged. we are subject to product safety regulations, recalls and direct claims for product liability that can result in significant liability and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, can be costly to defend. also, we increasingly rely on other manufacturers to provide us with products or components for products that we sell. as a result of the difficulty of controlling the quality of products or components sourced from other manufacturers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products and to limitations on our recourse against such suppliers. increasingly, homebuilders, including our customers, are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims in the ordinary course of their business. our contractual arrangements with these customers typically include the agreement to indemnify them against liability for the performance of our products or services or the performance of other products that we install. these claims, often asserted several years after completion of construction, frequently result in lawsuits against the homebuilders and many of their subcontractors, including us, and require us to incur defense costs even when our products or services are not the principal basis for the claims. although we intend to defend all claims and litigation matters vigorously, given the inherently unpredictable nature of claims and litigation, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or litigation matter, and there can be no assurance as to the ultimate outcome of any such matter. we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks of loss resulting from claims and litigation. we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the 10 table of contents risks presented. the levels of insurance we maintain may not be adequate to fully cover any and all losses or liabilities. if any significant accident, judgment, claim or other event is not fully insured or indemnified against, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. see note to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report for additional information about litigation involving our businesses. government and industry responses to environmental and health and safety concerns could impact our capital expenditures and operating results. government regulations pertaining to health and safety (including protection of employees as well as consumers) and environmental concerns continue to emerge, domestically as well as internationally. in addition to having to comply with current requirements (including requirements that do not become effective until a future date), even more stringent requirements could be imposed on our industries in the future. compliance with these regulations (such as the restrictions on lead content in plumbing products and on volatile organic compounds and formaldehyde emissions that are applicable to certain of our businesses) may require us to alter our manufacturing and installation processes and our sourcing. such actions could adversely impact our operating results, and our ability to effectively and timely meet such regulations could adversely impact our competitive position. the long-term performance of our businesses relies on our ability to attract, develop and retain talented management. to be successful, we must attract, develop and retain highly qualified and talented personnel in management, sales, marketing and product design and innovation and, as we consider entering new international markets, skilled personnel familiar with these markets. we compete with multinational firms for these employees and we invest significant resources in recruiting, developing, motivating and retaining them. the failure to attract, develop, motivate and retain key employees could negatively affect our competitive position and our operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we have considered the provisions of accounting guidance regarding disclosure of accounting policies for derivative financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments, and disclosure of quantitative and qualitative information about market risk inherent in derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments. we are exposed to the impact of changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates in the normal course of business and to market price fluctuations related to our marketable securities and other investments. we have limited involvement with derivative financial instruments and use such instruments to the extent necessary to manage exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations and from time to time commodity fluctuations. see note f to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our derivative instruments. at december 31, 2009, we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts to manage exposure to currency fluctuations related primarily to the european euro and the u.s. dollar. at december 31, 2009, we performed sensitivity analyses to assess the potential loss in the fair values of market risk sensitive instruments resulting from a hypothetical change of 10 percent in foreign currency exchange rates or a 10 percent decline in the market value of our long-term investments. based upon the analyses performed, such changes would not be expected to materially affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 36 table of contentsrisk factors. there are a number of business risks and uncertainties that could affect our business. these risks and uncertainties could cause our actual results to differ from past performance or expected results. we consider the following risks and uncertainties to be most relevant to our specific business activities. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, also may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 7 table of contents a significant portion of our business relies on home improvement and new home construction activity levels, both of which are experiencing a prolonged and substantial downturn. a significant portion of our business relies on home improvement (including repair and remodeling) and new home construction activity levels, principally in north america and europe. the new home construction market, which is cyclical in nature, is experiencing a prolonged and substantial downturn marked by continued softness in the demand for new homes, an oversupply of new and existing homes on the market and more stringent standards for homebuyers seeking financing. the oversupply of existing homes held for sale is exacerbated by a growing number of home mortgage foreclosures as well as uncertainties in the home foreclosure process, which are contributing to the downward pressure on home prices. unlike most previous cyclical declines in new home construction, this economic decline is also adversely affecting our home improvement businesses. continued low levels of consumer confidence, high levels of unemployment and the downward pressure on home prices have made consumers increasingly reluctant to make additional investments in existing homes, such as kitchen and bath remodeling projects. the increasing number of households with negative equity in their homes and more conservative lending practices, including for home equity loans which are often used to finance repairs and remodeling, are limiting the ability of consumers to finance home improvements. although we believe that the long-term outlook for the home improvement and new home construction markets is favorable, we cannot predict the type, timing or strength of a recovery in our markets. prolonged depressed activity levels in consumer spending for home improvements and new home construction will continue to adversely affect our results of operations and our financial position and may disproportionately affect certain of our business segments that are most heavily dependent on new home construction markets and large consumer investments in home remodeling projects. a prolonged economic downturn may reduce our financial resources and flexibility. our credit agreement contains various financial covenants we must comply with, including covenants regarding debt to total capitalization. at december 31, 2010, we had additional borrowing capacity, subject to availability, of up to $113 million; alternatively, we could absorb a reduction in shareholders equity of $61 million and remain in compliance with this covenant. we have recently amended our credit agreement to allow for the add-back to shareholders equity of the impairment charges we took in 2010 for financial investments, goodwill and other intangible assets and changes to the valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets included in income tax expense aggregating $986 million, after tax. the amendment (deemed to be effective and applicable as of december 31, 2010) also allows us to add-back, if incurred, up to $350 million, in the aggregate, of future non-cash charges. we currently have borrowing capacity approximating $1 billion available under the credit agreement. see footnote k for a detailed discussion of the terms of our credit facility and the recent amendment. the valuation of assets on our balance sheet, particularly goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets, is largely dependent upon the expectations for future performance of our businesses. a further decline in the expectation of our future performance, or a further deterioration in expectations regarding the timing and the extent of the recovery of the new home construction market, may cause us to recognize additional non-cash, pre-tax impairment charges, which are not determinable at this time, for certain long-lived assets, including goodwill. this could result in additional impairment charges for goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets or other long-lived assets and a further reduction in shareholders equity. such charges and potential reduction in shareholders equity may limit our borrowing capacity under our credit agreement. there can be no assurance that we would be able to further amend the credit agreement or to obtain alternative financing, that any such financing would be on acceptable terms or that we would be permitted to do so under the terms of our existing financing arrangements. 8 table of contents the volatile and challenging economic conditions of the past two years have caused shifts in consumer preferences and purchasing practices. the volatile and challenging economic environment of the past two years has caused shifts in consumer preferences and purchasing practices and changes in the business models and strategies of our customers. such shifts, which may or may not be long-term, have altered the type and prices of products demanded by the end-consumer and our customers. over the past two years, we have seen a downward trend in the size of the new homes being built, resulting in smaller kitchens and baths. in addition, consumers have shown an increasing interest in lower-cost products. if we do not timely and effectively identify and respond to these changing consumer preferences, our relationships with our customers could be harmed, the demand for our products could be reduced and our market share could be negatively affected. our response to the prolonged downturn has been to continue our focus on implementation of cost savings initiatives, which have been costly and may not be effective. during the current downturn in the home improvement and new home construction markets, we have focused on cost saving initiatives, including rationalizing our businesses through business consolidations, plant closures, headcount reductions, system implementations and other cost saving initiatives. during 2010 and 2009, we incurred pre-tax costs and charges of $208 million and $94 million, respectively, related to these initiatives. in the future, we may incur costs and charges relating to additional cost savings initiatives. we may not fully achieve the anticipated cost savings from these initiatives. if we do not effectively balance our focus on cost savings with the need to maintain a strong sales presence for our brands, we could lose market share. if the eventual recovery of our markets is fast-paced and robust, we may not be able to replace our reduced manufacturing and installation capacity in a timely fashion and our ability to respond to increased demand could be limited. we rely on key customers and may encounter conflicts within and between our distribution channels. the size and importance of individual customers to our businesses has increased as customers in our major distribution channels have consolidated or exited the business. larger customers can make significant changes in their volume of purchases and can otherwise significantly affect the prices we receive for our products and services, our costs of doing business with them and the terms and conditions on which we do business. sales of our home improvement and building products to home centers are substantial. in 2010, sales to our largest customer, the home depot, were $2.0 billion (approximately 26 percent of our consolidated net sales). lowe is our second largest customer. in 2010, our sales to lowe were less than ten percent of our consolidated net sales. although homebuilders, dealers and other retailers represent other channels of distribution for our products and services, the loss of a substantial portion of our sales to the home depot or the loss of our sales to lowe would have a material adverse effect on our business. as some of our customers expand their markets and their targeted customers, conflicts between our existing distribution channels have and will continue to occur. in addition, we may undermine the business relationships we have with customers who purchase our products through traditional wholesale channels as we increase the amount of business we transact directly with our larger customers. in addition, our large retail customers are increasingly requesting product exclusivity, which may affect our ability to offer products to other customers. our principal markets are highly competitive. the major geographic markets for our products and services are highly competitive and, in recent years, competition has intensified significantly. competition is further intensified during economic downturns. home centers are increasing their purchases of products directly from low-cost overseas suppliers for sale as private label and house brand merchandise. additionally, home centers, which have historically concentrated their sales efforts on retail consumers and remodelers, are increasingly turning their marketing efforts directly 9 table of contents toward professional contractors and installers. we believe that competition in our industries is based on price, product and service quality, brand reputation, customer service and product features and innovation. in addition to the challenges we have faced as a result of the economic downturn, our ability to maintain our competitive positions in our markets and to grow our businesses depends to a large extent upon successfully maintaining our relationships with major customers, implementing growth strategies in our existing markets and entering new geographic markets, capitalizing on and strengthening our brand names, managing our cost structure, accommodating shorter life-cycles for our products and product development and innovation. the cost and availability of materials and the performance of our supply chain affect our operating results. it has been, and likely will continue to be, difficult for us to pass on to customers cost increases for commodities or other materials that are major components of our products or services. in addition, we may incur substantial costs as part of our strategy to hedge against price volatility of certain commodities we purchase and we may make commitments to purchase supplies at prices that subsequently exceed their market prices. delays in adjusting, or in our inability to adjust, selling prices may be due to factors such as our existing arrangements with customers, competitive considerations and customer resistance to price increases. further, when commodity prices decline, we receive pressure from our customers to reduce prices for our products and services. changes in energy costs and certain commodities not only impact our production costs, but also the cost to transport our products. we manufacture products in asia and source products and components from third parties in asia. the distances involved in these arrangements, together with differences in business practices, shipping and delivery requirements, the limited number of suppliers, and laws and regulations, have increased the difficulty of managing our supply chain, the complexity of our supply chain logistics and the potential for interruptions in our production scheduling. we rely heavily or, in certain cases, exclusively on outside suppliers for certain of our products or key components. generally, these products and components are obtainable from various sources and in sufficient quantities. however, the loss of, or a substantial decrease in the availability of products or components from our suppliers, or the loss of key supplier arrangements may disrupt our business and could adversely impact our financial condition, operating results and cash flows. international political, monetary, economic and social developments affect our business. over 20 percent of our sales are made outside of north america (principally in europe) and are transacted in currencies other than u.s. dollars (principally the euro and the british pound sterling). increased international sales make up an important part of our future strategic plans. in addition, we manufacture products in asia and source products and components from third parties in asia. our international business faces risks associated with changes in political, monetary, economic and social environments, labor conditions and practices, the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, cultural differences and differences in enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. u.s. laws affecting activities of u.s. companies doing business abroad, including tax laws and laws regulating various business practices, also impact our international business. our international operating results may be influenced, when compared to our north american results, in part due to relative economic conditions in the european markets and due to competitive pricing pressures on certain products. the financial reporting of our consolidated operating results is affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may present challenges in comparing operating performance from period to period and in forecasting future performance. 10 table of contents we have financial commitments and investments in financial assets, including assets that are not readily marketable and involve financial risk. we continue to reduce our investment in private equity funds. since there is no active trading market for investments in private equity funds, they are for the most part illiquid. these investments, by their nature, can also have a relatively higher degree of business risk, including financial leverage, than other financial investments. future changes in market conditions, the future performance of the underlying investments or new information provided by private equity fund managers could affect the recorded values of such investments or the amounts realized upon liquidation. in addition, we have commitments that require us to contribute additional capital to these private equity funds upon receipt of a capital call from the private equity fund. claims and litigation could be costly. we are, from time to time, involved in various claims, litigation matters and regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business and which could have a material adverse effect on us. these matters may include contract disputes, automobile liability and other personal injury claims, warranty disputes, environmental claims or proceedings, other tort claims, employment and tax matters and other proceedings and litigation, including class actions. we are subject to product safety regulations, recalls and direct claims for product liability that can result in significant liability and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, can be costly to defend or manage. also, we increasingly rely on other manufacturers to provide us with products or components for products that we sell. due to the difficulty of controlling the quality of products or components sourced from other manufacturers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products and to limitations on our recourse against such suppliers. we have also experienced class action lawsuits in recent years predicated upon claims for antitrust violations, product liability and wage and hour issues. we have generally denied liability and have vigorously defended these cases. due to their scope and complexity, however, these lawsuits are particularly costly to resolve and significant exposures have been alleged. increasingly, our homebuilder customers are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims in the ordinary course of their business. our contractual arrangements with these customers may include our agreement to defend and indemnify them against various liabilities caused by our negligence. these claims, often asserted several years after completion of construction, can result in complex lawsuits or claims against the homebuilders and many of their subcontractors, including us, and may require us to incur defense and indemnity costs even when our products or services are not the principal basis for the claims. although we intend to defend all claims and litigation matters vigorously, given the inherently unpredictable nature of claims and litigation, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or litigation matter. we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks of loss resulting from claims and litigation. we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. the levels of insurance we maintain may not be adequate to fully cover any and all losses or liabilities. if any significant accident, judgment, claim or other event is not fully insured or indemnified against, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. see note to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report for additional information about litigation involving our businesses. government and industry responses to environmental and health and safety concerns could impact our capital expenditures and operating results. we are subject to u.s. and foreign government regulations pertaining to health and safety (including protection of employees and consumers), climate disruption and environmental issues. in addition to 11 table of contents complying with current requirements and requirements that will become effective at a future date, even more stringent requirements could be imposed on our industries in the future. compliance with these regulations may require us to alter our manufacturing and installation processes and our sourcing. such actions could adversely impact our operating results, and our ability to effectively and timely meet such regulations could adversely impact our competitive position. the long-term performance of our businesses relies on our ability to attract, develop and retain talented personnel. to be successful, we must attract, develop and retain highly qualified and talented personnel and, as we consider entering new international markets, skilled personnel familiar with these markets. we compete for employees with a broad range of employers in many different industries, including large multinational firms, and we invest significant resources in recruiting, developing, motivating and retaining them. the failure to attract, develop, motivate and retain key employees could negatively affect our competitive position and our operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we have considered the provisions of accounting guidance regarding disclosure of accounting policies for derivative financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments, and disclosure of quantitative and qualitative information about market risk inherent in derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments. we are exposed to the impact of changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity costs in the normal course of business and to market price fluctuations related to our marketable securities and other investments. we have limited involvement with derivative financial instruments and use such instruments to the extent necessary to manage exposure to foreign currency fluctuations and from time to time commodity fluctuations. see note f to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our derivative instruments. at december 31, 2010, we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts to manage exposure to currency fluctuations related primarily to the european euro and the u.s. dollar. at december 31, 2010, we have also entered into several contracts to manage our exposure to increases in the price of copper and zinc. at december 31, 2010, we performed sensitivity analyses to assess the potential loss in the fair values of market risk sensitive instruments resulting from a hypothetical change of 10 percent in foreign currency exchange rates, a 10 percent decline in the market value of our long-term investments or a 10 percent change in commodity costs. based upon the analyses performed, such changes would not be expected to materially affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 40 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk the company has considered the provisions of financial reporting release no. 48, "disclosure of accounting policies for derivative financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments, and disclosure of quantitative and qualitative information about market risk inherent in derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments." the company had no significant holdings of derivative financial or commodity-based instruments at december 31, 2002. a review of the company's other financial instruments and risk exposures at that date revealed that the company had exposure to interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate risks. the company also had market price risk related to its marketable equity securities, bond funds and other investments. at december 31, 2002, the company performed sensitivity analyses to assess these risks and concluded that the effects of hypothetical changes of 200 basis points in average interest rates, a 10 percent change in foreign currency exchange rates or a 10 percent decline in the market value of the company's long-term investments would not be expected to materially affect the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 28quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company has considered the provisions of financial reporting release no. 48, "disclosure of accounting policies for derivative financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments, and disclosure of quantitative and qualitative information about market risk inherent in derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments." the company is exposed to the impact of changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates in the normal course of business and to market price fluctuations related to its marketable equity securities, bond funds and other investments. the company has limited involvement with derivative financial instruments and uses such instruments only to the extent necessary to manage exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations. the company does not use derivatives for trading purposes. see note g to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the company's derivative instruments. the derivatives used by the company for the year ended december 31, 2003 consist of interest rate swaps entered into late in 2003, for the purpose of effectively converting a portion of fixed-rate debt to floating-rate debt which is expected to reduce interest expense, given current interest rates. certain of the company's european operations also entered into foreign exchange forward contracts for the purpose of managing exposure to currency fluctuations related to the united states dollar and the great britain pound. at december 31, 2003, the company performed sensitivity analyses to assess the potential loss in the fair values of market risk sensitive instruments resulting from a hypothetical change of 200 basis points in average interest rates, a 10 percent change in foreign currency exchange rates or a 10 percent decline in the market value of the company's long-term investments. based on the analyses performed, such changes would not be expected to materially affect the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 26quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company has considered the provisions of financial reporting release no. 48, "disclosure of accounting policies for derivative financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments, and disclosure of quantitative and qualitative information about market risk inherent in derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments." the company is exposed to the impact of changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates in the normal course of business and to market price fluctuations related to its marketable equity securities and other investments. the company has limited involvement with derivative financial instruments and uses such instruments only to the extent necessary to manage exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations. the company does not use derivatives for trading purposes. see note g to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the company's derivative instruments. the derivatives used by the company for the year ended december 31, 2004 consist of interest rate swap agreements entered into in 2003 and 2004, for the purpose of effectively converting a portion of fixed-rate debt to variable-rate debt, which is expected to reduce interest expense, given current interest rates. certain of the company's european operations also entered into foreign currency forward contracts for the purpose of managing exposure to currency fluctuations related primarily to the united states dollar and the great britain pound. at december 31, 2004, the company performed sensitivity analyses to assess the potential loss in the fair values of market risk sensitive instruments resulting from a hypothetical change of 200 basis points in average interest rates, a 10 percent change in foreign currency exchange rates or a 10 percent decline in the market value of the company's long-term investments. based on the analyses performed, such changes would not be expected to materially affect the company's financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 28risk factors. there are a number of business risks and uncertainties that may affect our operations. these risks and uncertainties could cause future results to differ from past performance or expected results, including results described in statements elsewhere in this report that constitute "forward-looking statements" under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. the impact on our operations of certain of these risk factors is discussed below under item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial also may adversely impact our business. should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. these risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following, which we consider to be most relevant to our specific business activities. a significant portion of our business relies on residential construction activity. our results of operations are affected by levels of home improvement and residential construction activity, principally in north america and europe (including repair and remodeling and new construction). interest rates, energy costs, consumer confidence, general and regional economic conditions, and weather conditions and natural disasters can significantly impact levels of home improvement and residential construction activity. historically, the company has largely offset the impact on its reve- 6 nues of cyclical declines in the new construction and home improvement markets through new product introductions, acquisitions and market share gains. we have increased our emphasis on new product development in recent years, but we have reduced our prior focus on growth through acquisitions in favor of organic growth. consequently, our financial performance will, in part, reflect our success in implementing our growth strategies in our existing markets and in introducing new products or entering new geographic markets. we rely on our key customers. the size and importance of individual customers has increased because customers in our major distribution channels have consolidated. larger customers can effect significant changes in their volume of purchases and can otherwise significantly affect the terms and conditions on which we do business. further, as these same customers expand their markets and targeted customers, conflicts occur, and in some instances we also become their competitors. our relationships with home centers are particularly important because sales of our home improvement and building products to home center retailers are substantial. in 2005, sales to the company's largest customer, the home depot, were $2.7 billion (approximately 21 percent of total sales). although builders, dealers and other retailers represent other channels of distribution for the company's products, the loss of a substantial portion of our sales to the home depot would have a material adverse impact on the company. we face significant competition in the u.s. and global markets. the major markets for our products and services are highly competitive and in recent years global competition has increased significantly. competition in our home improvement and building product lines is based largely on performance, quality, brand reputation, style, delivery, customer service, exclusivity and price. competition in the markets for our service businesses is based primarily on price, customer service, scope of capabilities, installation quality and financial strength. although the relative importance of such factors varies between customers and among product categories, price is often a primary factor. our ability to maintain our leadership positions in our markets and to grow our businesses depends to a large extent upon our success in maintaining our relationships with our major customers, managing our cost structure and introducing new products. our operating results are affected by the cost and availability of raw material. when we incur cost increases for raw materials, energy and other commodities, it may be difficult for us to completely offset the impact with price increases on a timely basis due to outstanding commitments to our customers, competitive considerations and our customers' resistance to accepting such price increases. some of our operations, including the installation and other services segment, encounter shortages or unusual price increases in raw materials from time to time. a substantial decrease in the availability of products from our suppliers or the loss of key supplier arrangements could adversely impact our results of operations. our international business has different risks from those of our north american business. over 15 percent of our sales are derived outside of north america (principally in europe) and are transacted in currencies other than u.s. dollars (principally euros and great britain pounds). our international business faces political, monetary, economic and other risks that vary from country to country. our international operating results have been adversely influenced in recent years, in part due to softness in the european markets and competitive pricing pressures on certain products. our operating results can fluctuate based on changes in u.s. dollar exchange rates, which also presents difficulty in comparing operating performance from period to period. 7 we have financial commitments and investments in financial assets, including assets that are not readily marketable and involve financial risk. we maintain investments in a number of private equity funds and in marketable securities. since there is no active trading market for investments in private equity funds, they are for the most part illiquid. these investments, by their nature, can also have a relatively higher degree of business risk, including financial leverage, than other financial investments. future changes in market conditions, the future performance of the underlying investments or new information provided by private equity fund managers could affect the recorded values of such investments and the amounts realized upon liquidation. in addition, we have commitments that require us, when requested, to contribute additional capital to these private equity funds. product liability claims and other litigation could be costly. increasingly, homebuilders (including our customers) are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims in the ordinary course of their business. our contractual commitments to these customers typically include our agreement to indemnify them for liability for the performance of our products or services or the performance of other products that we install. we are also subject to product safety recalls and direct claims for product liability, including putative class actions, which can result in significant liability and be costly to defend. see note u to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report for additional information about litigation involving our businesses. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company has considered the provisions of financial reporting release no. 48, "disclosure of accounting policies for derivative financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments, and disclosure of quantitative and qualitative information about market risk inherent in derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments." the company is exposed to the impact of changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates in the normal course of business and to market price fluctuations related to its marketable securities and other investments. the company has limited involvement with derivative financial instruments and uses such instruments to the extent necessary to manage exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations. see note f to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the company's derivative instruments. the derivatives used by the company for the year ended december 31, 2005 consist of interest rate swap agreements entered into in 2004 for the purpose of effectively converting a portion of fixed-rate debt to variable-rate debt. the company, including certain european operations, also entered into foreign currency forward contracts to manage exposure to currency fluctuations related primarily to the united states dollar and the great britain pound. at december 31, 2005, the company performed sensitivity analyses to assess the potential loss in the fair values of market risk sensitive instruments resulting from a hypothetical change of 200 basis points in average interest rates, a 10 percent change in foreign currency exchange rates or a 10 percent decline in the market value of the company's long-term investments. based on the analyses performed, such changes would not be expected to materially affect the company's consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 31risk factors. there are a number of business risks and uncertainties that may affect our company. these risks and uncertainties could cause future results to differ from past performance or expected results, including results described in statements elsewhere in this report that constitute forward-looking statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. the impact on our company of certain of these risk factors is discussed below under item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, also may adversely impact our company. should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. these risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following, which we consider to be most relevant to our specific business activities. a significant portion of our business relies on residential construction activity. our results of operations are affected by levels of home improvement and residential construction activity, including repair, remodeling and new home construction, principally in north america and europe. significant factors that impact demand for home improvement and residential construction include interest rates, energy costs, consumer confidence, general and regional economic conditions, weather conditions and natural disasters. the ability of contractors and builders to supply construction projects and the timing of such projects, and thereby their purchases of our products and services, can be affected significantly by the availability of building materials and skilled labor. demographic factors, such as changes in population growth and household formation, affect levels of home improvement and residential construction over the longer term. we have increased our emphasis on new product development in recent years and we have reduced our prior focus on growth through acquisitions and are concentrating instead on organic growth. consequently, our financial performance will, in part, reflect our success in implementing our growth strategies in our existing markets and in introducing new products or entering new geographic markets. see management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under item 7 of this report for discussion of the impact of residential construction activities on the company operating results. we rely on key customers. the size and importance of individual customers has increased because customers in our major distribution channels have consolidated. larger customers can effect significant changes in their volume 6 table of contents of purchases and can otherwise significantly affect the terms and conditions on which we do business. these customers are increasing their purchases of products directly from manufacturers for sale as private label and house brand merchandise. as some of our customers expand their markets and targeted customers, conflicts occur and in some instances we may also become their competitor. sales of our home improvement and building products to home center retailers are substantial. in 2006, sales to the company largest customer, the home depot, were $2.5 billion (approximately 20 percent of net sales). although builders, dealers and other retailers represent other channels of distribution for the company products, the loss of a substantial portion of our sales to the home depot would have a material adverse impact on the company. we face significant competition in the u.s. and global markets. the major markets for our products and services are highly competitive and in recent years global competition has increased significantly. competition in home improvement and building product lines is based largely on performance, quality, brand reputation, style, delivery, customer service, exclusivity and price. competition in the markets for our service businesses is based primarily on price, customer service, scope of capabilities, installation quality and financial strength. although the relative importance of such factors varies between customers and among product categories, price is often a primary factor. home center retailers, which have historically concentrated their sales efforts on retail consumers and small contractors, may in the future intensify their marketing efforts directly to professional homebuilders. our ability to maintain our leadership positions in the markets we serve and to grow the businesses depends to a large extent upon our success in maintaining our relationships with major customers, managing our cost structure and introducing new products that appeal to changing consumer preferences. our operating results are affected by the cost and availability of labor and materials. when we incur cost increases for raw materials, such as copper, brass and particle board, and for energy and other commodities, it may be difficult for us to completely offset the impact with price increases on a timely basis due to outstanding commitments to customers, competitive considerations and our customers resistance to accepting such price increases. some of our operations, including the installation and other services segment, encounter shortages or unusual price increases in raw materials, including insulation, from time to time. a substantial decrease in the availability of raw materials from suppliers or the loss of key supplier arrangements could adversely impact our results of operations. although the availability of qualified employees is important throughout the entire company, this is particularly applicable to our installation and other services segment, because of its labor-intensive installation business. significant changes in federal, state and local regulations addressing immigration and wages, as well as collective bargaining arrangements affecting wages and working conditions, could adversely affect the performance of our businesses. international developments have an increasing impact on our business. over 17 percent of our sales are derived outside of north america (principally in europe) and are transacted in currencies other than u.s. dollars (principally european euros and great britain pounds). our international business faces risks associated with changes in political, monetary, economic and social environments, local labor conditions and practices, the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, cultural differences and differences in enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. u.s. laws affecting activities of u.s. companies abroad, including tax laws and laws regulating various business practices, also impact our international business. our international operating results have been adversely influenced in the past when compared to our north american results, in part due to relative softness in the european markets and competitive pricing pressures on certain products. increasingly, we are sourcing products from outside north america, principally in asia, and selling products in international markets. differing international business practices, shipping and delivery requirements, and laws and regulations applicable to our business in these markets have raised the 7 table of contents complexity of managing our supply chain logistics and the potential for interruptions in our production scheduling. our operating results can fluctuate based on changes in currency exchange rates, which presents difficulty in comparing operating performance from period to period. we have financial commitments and investments in financial assets, including assets that are not readily marketable and involve financial risk. we have maintained investments in marketable securities and a number of private equity funds. since there is no active trading market for investments in private equity funds, they are for the most part illiquid. these investments, by their nature, can also have a relatively higher degree of business risk, including financial leverage, than other financial investments. future changes in market conditions, the future performance of the underlying investments or new information provided by private equity fund managers could affect the recorded values of such investments and the amounts realized upon liquidation. in addition, we have commitments that require us to contribute additional capital to these private equity funds upon receipt of a capital call from the private equity fund. product liability claims and other litigation could be costly. increasingly, homebuilders, including our customers, are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims in the ordinary course of their business. our contractual commitments to these customers typically include the agreement to indemnify them against liability for the performance of our products or services or the performance of other products that we install. we are also subject to product safety regulations, recalls and direct claims for product liability, including putative class actions. product liability claims can result in significant liability and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, can be costly to defend. also, we increasingly rely on other manufacturers to provide us with products or components for products we sell. because we do not have direct control over the quality of such products, we are exposed to the risks relating to the quality of such products and to limitations on our recourse against such suppliers. see note t to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report for additional information about litigation involving our businesses. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company has considered the provisions of financial reporting release no. 48, disclosure of accounting policies for derivative financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments, and disclosure of quantitative and qualitative information about market risk inherent in derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments. the company is exposed to the impact of changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates in the normal course of business and to market price fluctuations related to its marketable securities and other investments. the company has limited involvement with derivative financial instruments and uses such instruments to the extent necessary to manage exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations. see note f to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the company derivative instruments. the derivatives used by the company for the year ended december 31, 2006 consist of interest rate swap agreements entered into in 2004 for the purpose of effectively converting a portion of fixed-rate debt to variable-rate debt. the company, including certain european operations, also entered into foreign currency forward contracts to manage exposure to currency fluctuations related primarily to the european euro and the great britain pound. at december 31, 2006, the company performed sensitivity analyses to assess the potential loss in the fair values of market risk sensitive instruments resulting from a hypothetical change of 200 basis points in average interest rates, a 10 percent change in foreign currency exchange rates or a 10 percent decline in the market value of the company long-term investments. based upon the analyses performed, such changes would not be expected to materially affect the company consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 31 table of contentsrisk factors. there are a number of business risks and uncertainties that may affect our company. these risks and uncertainties could cause future results to differ from past performance or expected results, including results described in statements elsewhere in this report that constitute forward-looking statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. the impact on our company of certain of these risk factors is discussed below under item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, also may adversely impact our company. should any risks or uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. these risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following, which we consider to be most relevant to our specific business activities. 6 table of contents a significant portion of our business relies on residential construction activity and general economic conditions. a significant part of our business is affected by levels of home improvement (including repair and remodeling) and new home construction activity, principally in north america and europe. demographic factors, such as changes in population growth and household formations, affect levels of home improvement and new home construction over the long term. significant factors that impact demand for home improvement and new home construction in the short term include the inventory levels of unsold new and existing homes, general and regional economic conditions, consumer confidence and credit, terms and availability of financing, affordability of homes, interest rates, energy costs, and, on a more localized basis, weather conditions and natural disasters. the new home construction market, in particular, is cyclical in nature. a discussion of the impact of the decline in new home construction and in consumer spending for home improvement items on our various segments and on the company operating results is located under management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under item 7 of this report. we rely on key customers and may encounter conflicts within and between our distribution channels. the size and importance of individual customers to our businesses has increased as customers in our major distribution channels have consolidated. larger customers can effect significant changes in their volume of purchases and can otherwise significantly affect the terms and conditions on which we do business. further, during downturns in our markets, declines in the financial condition and creditworthiness of significant customers may impact the volume of our business, the credit risk involved and our terms of doing business with them. sales of our home improvement and building products to home center retailers are substantial. in 2007, sales to the company largest customer, the home depot, were $2.4 billion (approximately 20 percent of the company consolidated net sales). although builders, dealers and other retailers represent other channels of distribution for the company products and services, the loss of a substantial portion of our sales to the home depot would have a material adverse impact on the company. as some of our customers expand their markets and their targeted customers, conflicts occur and in some instances we may also become their competitor. increasingly, we are transacting business directly with our larger customers. these arrangements may undermine the business relationships we have with customers who purchase our products through traditional wholesale means. in addition, our large retail customers are increasingly requesting product exclusivity, which may impact our product offerings to other customers. our principal markets are becoming more competitive. the major geographic markets for our products and services are highly competitive and, in recent years, competition has intensified significantly. competition is further exacerbated during economic downturns. home center retailers are increasing their purchases of products directly from manufacturers, particularly low-cost suppliers in asia, for sale as private label and house brand merchandise. also, home center retailers, which have historically concentrated their sales efforts on retail consumers and remodelers, are increasingly turning their marketing efforts directly toward professional contractors and installers. the company believes that competition in our industries is based largely on price, product and service quality, brand reputation, customer service and product features. although the relative importance of such factors varies among customers and product categories, price is often a primary factor. although we view the long term demographic trends for our markets as generally favorable, our markets are mature, cyclical and growing slowly. additionally, our market position in and the competitive composition of our traditional markets affect our ability to expand our market share. in recent years, we have directed our strategic focus to organic growth and on developing new products and 7 table of contents expanding our services, rather than on growth through acquisitions. however, our ability to maintain our competitive positions in our markets and to grow our businesses is challenged since it depends to a large extent upon successfully maintaining our relationships with major customers, implementing growth strategies in our existing markets and entering new geographic markets, capitalizing on and strengthening our brand names, managing our cost structure, accommodating shorter life-cycles for our products and identifying and effectively responding to changing consumer preferences and spending patterns through product development and innovation. the importance of sophisticated information technology to our industry is increasing. in order to remain competitive and respond to customer requirements and changes in their business processes, such as inventory replenishment, merchandise ordering, transportation and payment processing, the company must be able to identify and implement comprehensive enterprise resource planning ( erp ) systems. erp systems are also critical to our supply chain management and logistics capabilities. the successful implementation of erp systems also requires significant investment by the company of both time and capital. difficulties encountered in the deployment of significant new systems and other technology could be disruptive to the operation of our businesses. the cost and availability of materials and labor and the performance of our supply chain affect our operating results. when we incur cost increases for commodities or materials that are major components of our products or services, such as brass, insulation or titanium dioxide, it can be difficult for us to offset the impact on our operating results on a timely basis. delays in adjusting or inability to adjust prices may be due to such factors as our existing arrangements with customers, competitive considerations, or customer resistance to such price increases. when the number of available sources for raw materials is limited, price volatility is more likely to occur and with longer duration when demand exceeds supply. in addition to their impact on our production expenses, increased costs of energy and other commodities, such as crude oil, can significantly affect the cost to transport our products and adversely affect our results of operations. see installation and other services for a discussion of the impact of cost of raw materials and availability of labor and materials on that segment of our business. we may also be adversely affected if our homebuilder customers encounter difficulty or delays in obtaining required materials from their other suppliers or if they encounter labor shortages. this is particularly likely to occur during periods of rapid growth in the new home construction market. under such circumstances, homebuilders may delay their construction schedules and, as a result, may reduce or delay their purchase of products and services from us. we rely heavily or exclusively on outside suppliers for certain of our products or key components. if there is an interruption in these sources of supply, we may experience difficulty or delay in substituting alternatives and our business may be disrupted. international political, economic and social developments impact our business. over 20 percent of our sales are derived outside of north america (principally in europe) and are transacted in currencies other than u.s. dollars (principally european euros and great britain pounds). our international business faces risks associated with changes in political, monetary, economic and social environments, local labor conditions and practices, the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, cultural differences and differences in enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. the financial reporting of our consolidated operating results is affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may present challenges in comparing operating performance from period to period and in forecasting future performance. u.s. laws affecting activities of u.s. companies doing business abroad, including tax laws and laws regulating various business practices, also impact our international business. our international operating results may be influenced, when compared to our north american results, in part due to relative economic conditions in the european markets and due to competitive pricing pressures on certain products. 8 table of contents increasingly, we are manufacturing in asia and sourcing products and components from third parties in asia. the distances involved in these arrangements, together with differences in business practices, shipping and delivery requirements, the limited number of suppliers, and laws and regulations, have increased the difficulty of managing our supply chain, the complexity of our supply chain logistics and the potential for interruptions in our production scheduling. we have financial commitments and investments in financial assets, including assets that are not readily marketable and involve financial risk. we have maintained investments in available-for-sale securities (including marketable and auction rate securities) and a number of private equity funds. since there is no active trading market for investments in private equity funds, they are for the most part illiquid. these investments, by their nature, can also have a relatively higher degree of business risk, including financial leverage, than other financial investments. future changes in market conditions, the future performance of the underlying investments or new information provided by private equity fund managers could affect the recorded values of such investments or the amounts realized upon liquidation. in addition, we have commitments that require us to contribute additional capital to these private equity funds upon receipt of a capital call from the private equity fund. product liability claims and other litigation could be costly. increasingly, homebuilders, including our customers, are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims in the ordinary course of their business. our contractual arrangements with these customers typically include the agreement to indemnify them against liability for the performance of our products or services or the performance of other products that we install. these claims frequently result in lawsuits against the homebuilders and many of their subcontractors, including the company, and require defense costs even when such products or services are not the principal basis for the claims. we are also subject to product safety regulations, recalls and direct claims for product liability, including putative class actions. product liability claims can result in significant liability and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, can be costly to defend. also, we increasingly rely on other manufacturers to provide us with products or components for products that we sell. because of the difficulty of controlling the quality of products or components sourced from other manufacturers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products and to limitations on our recourse against such suppliers. the company has experienced an increase in the number of putative class action lawsuits in recent years predicated upon claims for antitrust violations, product liability, wage and hour issues and other matters. the company has generally denied liability and vigorously defends these cases. however, even when there is no basis for imposing liability on the company, such lawsuits are particularly costly to resolve due to their scope, complexity and the potentially significant exposure that is alleged. see note t to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report for additional information about litigation involving our businesses. government and industry responses to environmental and health and safety concerns could impact our capital expenditures and operating results. government and other regulations pertaining to health and safety (including protection of employees as well as consumers) and environmental concerns continue to emerge, domestically as well as internationally. in addition to having to comply with current requirements (including requirements that do not become effective until a future date), even more stringent requirements could be imposed on our industries in the future. compliance with these regulations (such as the restrictions on lead content in plumbing products and on volatile organic compounds and formaldehyde emissions that are applicable to certain of our businesses), may require us to alter our manufacturing and installation processes and our sourcing. such actions could adversely impact our operating results, and our ability to effectively and timely meet such regulations could adversely impact our competitive position. 9 table of contents the long-term performance of our businesses relies on our ability to attract, develop and retain talented management. to be successful, we must attract, develop and retain highly qualified and talented personnel in management, sales, marketing, research and development and, as we enter new international markets, skilled personnel familiar with these markets. we compete with multinational firms in manufacturing and other industries for these employees and we invest significant resources in recruiting, developing and motivating them. the failure to attract, motivate, develop and retain key managers and other key employees could negatively affect our competitive position and our operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company has considered the provisions of financial reporting release no. 48, disclosure of accounting policies for derivative financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments, and disclosure of quantitative and qualitative information about market risk inherent in derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments. the company is exposed to the impact of changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates in the normal course of business and to market price fluctuations related to its marketable securities and other investments. the company has limited involvement with derivative financial instruments and uses such instruments to the extent necessary to manage exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations. see note f to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the company derivative instruments. the derivatives used by the company for the year ended december 31, 2007 consist of interest rate swap agreements entered into in 2004 for the purpose of effectively converting a portion of fixed-rate debt to variable-rate debt. the company, including certain european operations, also entered into foreign currency forward contracts to manage exposure to currency fluctuations related primarily to the european euro, the great britain pound and the u.s. dollar. at december 31, 2007, the company performed sensitivity analyses to assess the potential loss in the fair values of market risk sensitive instruments resulting from a hypothetical change of 200 basis points in average interest rates, a 10 percent change in foreign currency exchange rates or a 10 percent decline in the market value of the company long-term investments. based upon the analyses performed, such changes would not be expected to materially affect the company consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 37 table of contentsrisk factors. there are a number of business risks and uncertainties that have affected and may continue to affect our business. these risks and uncertainties have negatively impacted our current results and could cause future results to differ from past performance or expected results, including results described in statements elsewhere in this report that constitute forward-looking statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. the effect on us of certain of these risk factors is discussed below under item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, also may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. these risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following, which we consider to be most relevant to our specific business activities. a significant portion of our business relies on home improvement and new home construction activity levels, both of which are experiencing a significant downturn. a significant portion of our business relies on home improvement (including repair and remodeling) and new home construction activity levels, principally in north america and europe. the new home construction market, which is cyclical in nature, is undergoing a significant downturn marked by declines in the demand for new homes, an oversupply of new and existing homes on the market and a reduction in the availability of financing for homebuyers. the oversupply of existing homes has been exacerbated by a growing number of home mortgage foreclosures, which is further contributing to downward pressure on home prices. unlike most previous cyclical declines in new home construction in which we did not experience comparable declines in our home improvement businesses, the current economic decline is adversely affecting our home improvement businesses as well. low levels of consumer confidence and the downward pressure on home prices have made it much more difficult for homeowners to make additional investments in existing homes, such as kitchen and bath remodeling projects. further, recent disruptions in credit markets have limited the ability of consumers to finance home improvements. although we believe the long-term outlook for the home improvement and new home construction markets is favorable, we cannot provide any assurances that current market conditions will not deteriorate further and we cannot predict the timing or strength of a recovery in these markets. continued depressed activity levels in consumer spending for home improvement and new home construction will continue to adversely affect our results of operations and our financial position. furthermore, continued economic turmoil may cause unanticipated shifts in consumer preferences and purchasing practices and in the business models and strategies of our customers. such shifts may alter the nature and prices of products demanded by the end consumer and our customers and could adversely affect our operating performance. continued disruption in the financial markets could harm our business. we, our customers and end consumers rely on stable and efficient financial markets. the credit markets and the financial services industry have experienced significant disruptions, characterized by 7 table of contents the bankruptcy and failure of several financial institutions and severe limitations on credit availability. the disruptions in the financial markets have adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, our operations in a variety of ways. the financial stability of certain of our customers has been negatively impacted, which has resulted in increased bad debt expense for us. a prolonged continuation of adverse economic conditions would cause additional financial distress for our customers and could compromise the financial condition of our suppliers, which could result in non-performance by certain of our suppliers. in addition, our own borrowing costs are increasing and our access to capital markets may be reduced. in december 2008, our senior debt ratings were lowered by two credit rating agencies, including by one agency to below investment grade. as a result of the general deterioration in financial markets, as well as the lowering of our credit ratings, costs under our existing credit facilities have increased and may continue to increase, and it may become more difficult for us to obtain financing to fund operations or to refinance our existing debt obligations. further, the dramatic deterioration in general economic conditions over the past several months has resulted in the decline in the value of our investments in debt and equity securities, including the assets held in our pension plans. a prolonged economic downturn would reduce our financial resources and flexibility. the valuation of assets on our balance sheet, particularly goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets is largely dependent upon the expectations for future performance of our businesses. the reduced expectations of future performance have caused us to recognize impairment charges for certain long-lived assets, including goodwill, and a continuation of the adverse conditions in our markets may result in additional impairment charges and a reduction in our shareholders equity in the future. such a reduction in our shareholders equity and other adverse effects of a prolonged economic downturn on our results of operations and financial position would reduce our financial resources and flexibility and increase the relative impact on the company of other developments that otherwise affect us. we rely on key customers and may encounter conflicts within and between our distribution channels. the size and importance of individual customers to our businesses has increased as customers in our major distribution channels have consolidated or exited the business. larger customers can effect significant changes in their volume of purchases and can otherwise significantly affect the prices we receive for our products and services, our costs of doing business with them and the terms and conditions on which we do business. further, as discussed above, during downturns in our markets, declines in the financial condition and creditworthiness of customers may impact the volume of our business, the credit risk involved and our terms of doing business with them. sales of our home improvement and building products to home center retailers are substantial. in 2008, sales to our largest customer, the home depot, were $2.1 billion (approximately 21 percent of our consolidated net sales). lowe is our second largest customer. in 2008, our sales to lowe were less than 10 percent of our consolidated net sales. although homebuilders, dealers and other retailers represent other channels of distribution for our products and services, the loss of a substantial portion of our sales to the home depot or the loss of our sales to lowe would have a material adverse effect on our business. as some of our customers expand their markets and their targeted customers, conflicts between our existing distribution channels have occurred, and will continue to occur. in addition, we may undermine the business relationships we have with customers who purchase our products through traditional wholesale channels as we increase the amount of business we transact directly with our larger customers. in addition, our large retail customers are increasingly requesting product exclusivity, which may affect the products we can offer to other customers. 8 table of contents our principal markets are highly competitive. the major geographic markets for our products and services are highly competitive and, in recent years, competition has intensified significantly. competition is further exacerbated during economic downturns. home center retailers are increasing their purchases of products directly from manufacturers, particularly low-cost suppliers in asia, for sale as private label and house brand merchandise. also, home center retailers, which have historically concentrated their sales efforts on retail consumers and remodelers, are increasingly turning their marketing efforts directly toward professional contractors and installers. we believe that competition in our industries is based largely on price, product and service quality, brand reputation, customer service and product features and innovation. although the relative importance of such factors varies among customers and product categories, price is often a primary factor. in addition to the challenges we are facing as a result of the current economic downturn, our ability to maintain our competitive positions in our markets and to grow our businesses depends to a large extent upon successfully maintaining our relationships with major customers, implementing growth strategies in our existing markets and entering new geographic markets, capitalizing on and strengthening our brand names, managing our cost structure, accommodating shorter life-cycles for our products and product development and innovation. the cost and availability of materials and the performance of our supply chain affect our operating results. it has been, and likely will continue to be, difficult for us to pass on to customers cost increases for commodities or other materials that are major components of our products or services. in addition, we may incur substantial costs as part of our strategy to hedge against price volatility of certain commodities we purchase and we may make commitments to purchase supplies at prices that subsequently exceed their market prices. delays in adjusting, or in our inability to adjust, selling prices may be due to factors such as our existing arrangements with customers, competitive considerations and customer resistance to price increases. further, when commodity prices decline, we receive pressure from our customers to reduce prices for our products and services. changes in energy costs and certain commodities not only impact our production costs, but also the cost to transport our products. we manufacture products in asia and source products and components from third parties in asia. the distances involved in these arrangements, together with differences in business practices, shipping and delivery requirements, the limited number of suppliers, and laws and regulations, have increased the difficulty of managing our supply chain, the complexity of our supply chain logistics and the potential for interruptions in our production scheduling. we rely heavily or exclusively on outside suppliers for certain of our products or key components. if there is an interruption in these sources of supply, we may experience difficulty or delay in substituting alternatives and our business may be disrupted. international political, monetary, economic and social developments affect our business. over 20 percent of our sales are derived outside of north america (principally in europe) and are transacted in currencies other than u.s. dollars (principally european euros and great britain pounds). in addition, we manufacture products in asia and source products and components from third parties in asia. our international business faces risks associated with changes in political, monetary, economic and social environments, labor conditions and practices, the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, cultural differences and differences in enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. u.s. laws affecting activities of u.s. companies doing business abroad, including tax laws and laws regulating various business practices, also impact our international business. our international operating results may be influenced, when compared to our north american results, in part due to relative economic conditions in the european markets and due to competitive pricing pressures on certain products. the financial reporting of our consolidated operating results is affected by fluctuations 9 table of contents in currency exchange rates, which may present challenges in comparing operating performance from period to period and in forecasting future performance. we have financial commitments and investments in financial assets, including assets that are not readily marketable and involve financial risk. we have maintained investments in available-for-sale securities (including marketable and auction rate securities) and a number of private equity funds. since there is no active trading market for investments in private equity funds, they are for the most part illiquid. these investments, by their nature, can also have a relatively higher degree of business risk, including financial leverage, than other financial investments. future changes in market conditions, the future performance of the underlying investments or new information provided by private equity fund managers could affect the recorded values of such investments or the amounts realized upon liquidation. in addition, we have commitments that require us to contribute additional capital to these private equity funds upon receipt of a capital call from the private equity fund. product liability claims and other litigation could be costly. we are subject to product safety regulations, recalls and direct claims for product liability, including putative class actions. product liability claims can result in significant liability and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, can be costly to defend. also, we increasingly rely on other manufacturers to provide us with products or components for products that we sell. as a result of the difficulty of controlling the quality of products or components sourced from other manufacturers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products and to limitations on our recourse against such suppliers. we have experienced putative class action lawsuits in recent years predicated upon claims for antitrust violations, product liability and wage and hour issues. we have generally denied liability and have vigorously defended these cases. however, even when there is no basis for imposing liability, such lawsuits are particularly costly to resolve due to their scope and complexity and the potentially significant exposure that is alleged. increasingly, homebuilders, including our customers, are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims in the ordinary course of their business. our contractual arrangements with these customers typically include the agreement to indemnify them against liability for the performance of our products or services or the performance of other products that we install. these claims, often asserted several years after completion of construction, frequently result in lawsuits against the homebuilders and many of their subcontractors, including us, and require us to incur defense costs even when our products or services are not the principal basis for the claims. see note u to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report for additional information about litigation involving our businesses. government and industry responses to environmental and health and safety concerns could impact our capital expenditures and operating results. government regulations pertaining to health and safety (including protection of employees as well as consumers) and environmental concerns continue to emerge, domestically as well as internationally. in addition to having to comply with current requirements (including requirements that do not become effective until a future date), even more stringent requirements could be imposed on our industries in the future. compliance with these regulations (such as the restrictions on lead content in plumbing products and on volatile organic compounds and formaldehyde emissions that are applicable to certain of our businesses) may require us to alter our manufacturing and installation processes and our sourcing. such actions could adversely impact our operating results, and our ability to effectively and timely meet such regulations could adversely impact our competitive position. 10 table of contents the long-term performance of our businesses relies on our ability to attract, develop and retain talented management. to be successful, we must attract, develop and retain highly qualified and talented personnel in management, sales, marketing and product design and innovation and, as we consider entering new international markets, skilled personnel familiar with these markets. we compete with multinational firms for these employees and we invest significant resources in recruiting, developing, motivating and retaining them. the failure to attract, develop, motivate and retain key employees could negatively affect our competitive position and our operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company has considered the provisions of financial reporting release no. 48, disclosure of accounting policies for derivative financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments, and disclosure of quantitative and qualitative information about market risk inherent in derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments . the company is exposed to the impact of changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates in the normal course of business and to market price fluctuations related to its marketable securities and other investments. the company has limited involvement with derivative financial instruments and uses such instruments to the extent necessary to manage exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency fluctuations. see note f to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the company derivative instruments. the derivatives used by the company for the year ended december 31, 2008 consist of two interest rate swap agreements entered into in 2004 for the purpose of effectively converting a portion of fixed-rate debt to variable-rate debt; in october 2008, the company terminated the two interest rate swap agreements. the company, including certain european operations, also entered into foreign currency forward contracts to manage exposure to currency fluctuations related primarily to the european euro and the u.s. dollar. at december 31, 2008, the company had also entered into foreign currency exchange contracts to hedge currency fluctuations related to intercompany loans denominated in non-functional currencies. at december 31, 2008, the company performed sensitivity analyses to assess the potential loss in the fair values of market risk sensitive instruments resulting from a hypothetical change of 10 percent in foreign currency exchange rates or a 10 percent decline in the market value of the company long-term investments. based upon the analyses performed, such changes would not be expected to materially affect the company consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 39 table of contentsrisk factors. there are a number of business risks and uncertainties that could affect our business. these risks and uncertainties could cause our actual results to differ from past performance or expected results. we consider the following risks and uncertainties to be most relevant to our specific business activities. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, also may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. a significant portion of our business relies on home improvement and new home construction activity, both of which are cyclical. a significant portion of our business relies on home improvement, including spending on repair and remodeling projects, and new home construction activity, principally in north america and europe. macroeconomic conditions including consumer confidence levels, fluctuations in home prices, unemployment and underemployment levels, and the availability of home equity loans and mortgages and the interest rates for such loans, affect both consumers' discretionary spending on home improvement projects as well as new home construction activity. adverse changes or uncertainty regarding these macroeconomic conditions could result in a decline in spending on home improvement projects and a decline in demand for new home construction, both of which could adversely affect our results of operations and our financial position. while improving, both new home construction and consumer spending for big ticket remodeling projects continues to be well below historic average levels, which affect our results of operations. if we do not maintain strong brands or respond to changing consumer preferences and purchasing practices, we could lose share and our results could be adversely affected. our competitive advantage is due, in part, to our ability to maintain our strong brands and to develop and introduce innovative new and improved products. while we continue to invest in brand building and brand awareness, these initiatives may not be successful. the uncertainties associated with developing and introducing new and improved products, such as gauging changing consumer preferences and successfully developing, manufacturing, marketing and selling these products, may impact the success of our product introductions. if we do not introduce new or improved products in a timely manner or if these products do not gain widespread acceptance, we could lose share, which could negatively impact our operating results. the volatile and challenging economic environment of recent years has caused shifts in consumer preferences and purchasing practices and changes in the business models and strategies of our customers. for example, consumers are increasingly using the internet and mobile technology to research home improvement products and to inform and enhance their purchasing and ownership experience for these products, particularly with consumer-initiated messaging. e-business is a rapidly developing area, and development of a successful e-business strategy involves significant time, investment and resources. if we are unable to successfully execute our e-business strategy, our brands may lose share. similarly, the quantity, type and prices of products demanded by consumers and our customers have shifted. for example, demand has increased for multi-family housing units such as apartments and condominiums, which typically have smaller kitchens and smaller and fewer bathrooms, each with fewer cabinets and faucets, as well less insulation, than single-family houses. while the economy is recovering, we are experiencing growth in certain channels for lower price point products. these shifts have negatively impacted our sales and/or our profitability, and it is uncertain whether these shifts represent long-term changes in consumer preferences. if we do not timely and effectively identify and respond to these changing consumer preferences and purchasing practices, our relationships with our customers and with consumers could be harmed, the 8 table of contents demand for our brands and products could be reduced and our results of operations could be negatively affected. our actions to improve our underperforming businesses have been costly and may not yield all of the anticipated benefits. the downturn in home improvement and new home construction activity during the recent recession impacted our results, particularly in our cabinets and related products and installation and other services segments and certain businesses in our plumbing products segment. in response, we implemented initiatives to reduce costs and increase sales; however, there is no assurance that our efforts will yield all of the anticipated benefits. our cost-saving initiatives, including rationalizing our businesses, closing plants and reducing headcount have been complex, time-consuming and expensive. the consolidation of our north american cabinet businesses, in particular, has involved the integration of multiple manufacturing processes and information technology platforms. while we have experienced positive results from these initiatives, there is no assurance that these benefits will continue. our strategy to increase our sales in the cabinets and related products segment through brand building and new product introductions requires time to develop, implement and assess. further, this segment faces pricing pressures, competition from low-cost manufacturers and a shift in the mix of products in certain channels to more value-priced products. if we cannot successfully implement these initiatives or respond to these changing market dynamics, our results of operations may continue to be negatively impacted. further, if the economy recovers faster than expected, we may not be able to increase our manufacturing and installation capacity to support demand, which could result in lost share and, ultimately, could negatively impact our operating results. our sales are concentrated with two significant customers. the size and importance of individual customers to our businesses continues to increase. in 2013, sales to our largest customer, the home depot, were $2.3 billion (approximately 28 percent of consolidated net sales). lowe's is our second largest customer. in 2013, sales to lowe's were less than ten percent of our consolidated net sales. these home center customers may reduce the number of vendors they purchase from and can make significant changes in their volume of purchases. additionally, home centers can significantly affect the prices we receive for our products and services, our cost of doing business with them and the terms and conditions on which we do business. although homebuilders, dealers and other retailers represent other channels of distribution for our products and services, the loss of a substantial portion of our sales to the home depot or the loss of our sales to lowe's would have a material adverse effect on our business. further, as some of our customers expand their markets and their targeted customers, conflicts between our existing distribution channels have and will continue to occur, which could impact our results of operations. in addition, we may undermine the business relationships we have with our current customers if we increase the amount of business we transact directly with consumers. in addition, our large retail customers are increasingly requesting product exclusivity, which may affect our ability to offer products to other customers and may diminish our ability to leverage economies of scale. we face significant competition. our products and services face significant competition. we believe that we compete on the basis of price, product and service quality, brand reputation, customer service and product features and innovation. home centers continue to purchase select products in our segments directly from low-cost foreign manufacturers for sale as private label and house brand merchandise. additionally, home 9 table of contents centers, which have historically concentrated their sales efforts on retail consumers and remodelers, are increasingly marketing directly to professional contractors and installers, which may impact our margins on our products that contractors and installers would otherwise buy through our dealers and wholesalers. in our other distribution channels, we compete with foreign manufacturers in a variety of our product groups. these foreign manufacturers are putting downward pressures on price, particularly in the emerging markets we are entering. in some of our segments, we are experiencing a shift in the mix of products we sell toward more value-priced or opening price point products, which may impact our ability to maintain or gain share and our profitability. our ability to maintain our competitive position in our industries and to grow our businesses depends upon successfully maintaining our relationships with major customers, implementing growth strategies and entering new geographic areas, including successful international penetration, developing a successful e-business strategy, maintaining strong brands, managing our cost structure, accommodating shorter life-cycles for our products, and developing and innovating products, none of which is assured. if we experience increased commodity costs or limited availability of commodities, our operating results could be negatively impacted. we buy various commodities to manufacture our products, including, among others, wood, brass (made of copper and zinc), titanium dioxide and resins. fluctuations in the availability and prices of these commodities could increase our costs to manufacture our products. further, increases in energy costs could increase our production costs as well as our transportation costs, each of which could negatively affect our financial condition and operating results. it has been, and likely will continue to be, difficult for us to pass on to customers cost increases to cover our increased commodity and production costs. our existing arrangements with customers, competitive considerations and customer resistance to price increases may delay or make us unable to adjust selling prices. if we are not able to increase the prices of our products or achieve cost savings to offset increased commodity and production costs, our financial condition and operating results could be negatively impacted. if we are able to increase our selling prices, sustained price increases for our products may lead to sales declines and loss of share, particularly if our competitors do not increase their prices. when commodity prices decline, we may receive pressure from our customers to reduce our prices. to minimize price volatility associated with certain anticipated commodity purchases, we use derivative instruments, including commodity futures and swaps. this strategy may increase the possibility that we may make commitments to purchase these commodities at prices that subsequently exceed their market prices, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. we are dependent on third-party suppliers and manufacturers, and the loss of a key supplier or manufacturer could negatively affect our operating results. our ability to offer a wide variety of products depends on our ability to obtain an adequate supply of products and components from manufacturers and other suppliers. we rely heavily or, in certain cases, exclusively, on third-party suppliers for some of our products and key components. failure by our suppliers to provide us quality products on commercially reasonable terms, or to comply with applicable legal requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. resourcing these products and components to another supplier could take time and involve significant costs. accordingly, the loss of a key supplier, or a substantial decrease in the availability of products or components from our suppliers, could disrupt our business and adversely impact our operating results. further, we manufacture products in asia and source products and components from third parties in asia. the distances involved in these arrangements, together with differences in business practices, 10 table of contents shipping and delivery requirements, the limited number of suppliers, and laws and regulations, have increased the complexity of our supply chain logistics and the potential for interruptions in our production scheduling. if we are unable to effectively manage our supply chain, our operating results could be negatively affected. international political, monetary, economic and social developments affect our business. approximately 20 percent of our sales are made outside of north america (principally in europe) and are transacted in currencies other than u.s. dollars (principally the euro and the british pound sterling). increased international sales make up an important part of our future strategic plans. in addition, we manufacture products in asia and source products, components and raw materials from third parties in asia. we face risks associated with changes in political, monetary, economic and social environments, labor conditions and practices, the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, cultural differences and differences in enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. u.s. laws and regulations affecting activities of u.s. companies doing business abroad, including tax laws, laws regulating various business practices, and trade regulations which may include duties and tariffs can also impact us. our international operating results may also be influenced by economic conditions in europe. the financial reporting of our consolidated operating results is affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may present challenges in comparing operating performance from period to period. the long-term performance of our businesses relies on our ability to attract, develop and retain talented personnel. to be successful, we must attract, develop and retain highly qualified and talented personnel who have the experience, knowledge and expertise to successfully implement our key business strategies. we compete for employees with a broad range of employers in many different industries, including large multinational firms, and we invest significant resources in recruiting, developing, motivating and retaining them. the failure to attract and retain key employees, or to develop effective succession planning to assure smooth transitions of those employees and the knowledge and expertise they possess, could negatively affect our competitive position and our operating results. further, as the economy continues to recover, if we are unable to recruit, train and retain sufficient skilled labor, we may not be able to adequately satisfy increased demand for our products and services, which could impact our operating results. claims and litigation could be costly. we are, from time to time, involved in various claims, litigation matters and regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business and which could have a material adverse effect on us. these matters may include contract disputes, automobile liability and other personal injury claims, warranty disputes, environmental claims or proceedings, other tort claims, employment and tax matters and other proceedings and litigation, including class actions. we are subject to product safety regulations, recalls and direct claims for product liability that can result in significant liability and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, can be costly to defend or manage. also, we rely on other manufacturers to provide us with products or components for products that we sell. due to the difficulty of controlling the quality of products or components sourced from other manufacturers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products and to limitations on our recourse against such suppliers. we have also experienced class action lawsuits in recent years predicated upon claims for antitrust violations, product liability and wage and hour issues. we have generally denied liability and have vigorously defended these cases. due to their scope and complexity, however, these lawsuits can be 11 table of contents particularly costly to defend and resolve, and we have and may continue to incur significant costs as a result of these types of lawsuits. our homebuilder customers are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims in the ordinary course of their business. our contractual arrangements with these customers may include our agreement to defend and indemnify them against various liabilities. these claims, often asserted several years after completion of construction, can result in complex lawsuits or claims against the homebuilders and many of their subcontractors, including us, and may require us to incur defense and indemnity costs even when our products or services are not the principal basis for the claims. although we intend to defend all claims and litigation matters vigorously, given the inherently unpredictable nature of claims and litigation, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or litigation matter. we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks of loss resulting from claims and litigation. we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. the levels of insurance we maintain may not be adequate to fully cover any and all losses or liabilities. if any significant accident, judgment, claim or other event is not fully insured or indemnified against, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. see note u to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report for additional information about litigation involving our businesses. if we are required to take additional significant non-cash charges, our financial resources could be reduced and our financial flexibility may be negatively affected. we have recorded significant goodwill and other intangible assets related to prior business combinations on our balance sheet. the valuation of these assets is largely dependent upon the expectations for future performance of our businesses. in recent years, we have recorded significant non-cash impairment charges for financial investments, goodwill and other intangible assets. while new home construction and home improvement activity are improving, the extent of the recovery remains uncertain. expectations about the recovery may impact whether we are required to recognize additional non-cash, pre-tax impairment charges for goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets or other long-lived assets. if the value of our goodwill or other intangible assets is further impaired, our earnings and shareholders' equity would be adversely affected. we have also recorded a valuation allowance related to our deferred tax assets. a return to sustainable profitability in our u.s. operations is required before we would change our judgment regarding the need for this valuation allowance. while we believe that we may reverse all or a portion of the valuation allowance as early as the second half of 2014, this is not assured. until such time, the profits from our u.s. operations will be offset by the net operating loss carryforward, resulting in a lower u.s. effective tax rate than we would normally incur. further, our credit agreement contains financial covenants we must comply with, including covenants regarding limits on our debt to total capitalization ratio. if we are required to record additional non-cash impairment charges, our shareholders' equity would be reduced, and our borrowing capacity under our credit agreement may be limited. in the past we have negotiated amendments to our credit agreement to allow for the add-back to shareholders' equity for impairment charges we have taken. there can be no assurance that in the future we would be able to further amend our credit agreement, that alternative financing would be available on acceptable terms and at acceptable rates, or that we would be permitted to obtain alternative financing under the terms of our existing financing arrangements. 12 table of contents compliance with government regulation and industry standards could impact our capital expenditures and operating results. we are subject to u.s. and foreign government regulations, particularly those pertaining to health and safety (including protection of employees and consumers), climate disruption and environmental issues. in addition to complying with current requirements and requirements that will become effective at a future date, even more stringent requirements could be imposed on our industries in the future. additionally, some of our products must be certified by industry organizations. compliance with these regulations and industry standards may require us to alter our manufacturing and installation processes and our sourcing, which could adversely impact our competitive position. further, if we do not effectively and timely comply with such regulations and industry standards, our operating results could be negatively affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we have considered the provisions of accounting guidance regarding disclosure of accounting policies for derivative financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments, and disclosure of quantitative and qualitative information about market risk inherent in derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments. we are exposed to the impact of changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity costs in the normal course of business and to market price fluctuations related to our financial investments. we have involvement with derivative financial instruments and use such instruments to the extent necessary to manage exposure to foreign currency fluctuations and commodity fluctuations. see note f to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our derivative instruments. at december 31, 2013, we performed sensitivity analyses to assess the potential loss in the fair values of market risk sensitive instruments resulting from a hypothetical change of 10 percent in foreign currency exchange rates, a 10 percent decline in the market value of our long-term investments, a 10 percent change in commodity costs, or a 10 percent change in interest rates. based upon the analyses performed, such changes would not be expected to materially affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 38 table of contentsrisk factors. there are a number of business risks and uncertainties that could affect our business. these risks and uncertainties could cause our actual results to differ from past performance or expected results. we consider the following risks and uncertainties to be most relevant to our specific business activities. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, also may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. risks related to our business a significant portion of our business relies on home improvement and new home construction activity, both of which are cyclical. a significant portion of our business relies on home improvement, including spending on repair and remodeling projects, and new home construction activity, principally in north america and europe. macroeconomic conditions, including consumer confidence levels, fluctuations in home prices, unemployment and underemployment levels, student loan debt, household formation and the availability of home equity loans and mortgages and the interest rates for such loans, affect both consumers' discretionary spending on home improvement projects as well as new home construction activity. adverse changes or uncertainty regarding these macroeconomic conditions could result in a decline in spending on home improvement projects and a decline in demand for new home construction, both of which could adversely affect our results of operations and our financial position. while improving, both new home construction and consumer spending for big ticket remodeling projects continue to be below historic average levels. if we do not maintain strong brands or respond to changing consumer preferences and purchasing practices, we could lose share and our results could be adversely affected. our competitive advantage is due, in part, to our ability to maintain our strong brands and to develop and introduce innovative new and improved products. while we continue to invest in brand building and brand awareness, these initiatives may not be successful. the uncertainties associated with developing and introducing new and improved products, such as gauging changing consumer preferences and successfully developing, manufacturing, marketing and selling these products, may impact the success of our product introductions. if we do not introduce new or improved products in a timely manner or if these products do not gain widespread acceptance, we could lose share, which could negatively impact our operating results. the challenging economic environment of recent years has caused shifts in consumer preferences and purchasing practices and changes in the business models and strategies of our customers. consumers are increasingly using the internet and mobile technology to research home improvement products and to inform and provide feedback on their purchasing and ownership experience for these products. e-business is a rapidly developing area, and development of a successful e-business strategy involves significant time, investment and resources. if we are unable to successfully execute our e-business strategy, our brands may lose share. similarly, the quantity, type and prices of products demanded by consumers and our customers have shifted. for example, demand has increased for multi-family housing units such as apartments and condominiums, which typically have smaller kitchens and smaller and fewer bathrooms, each with fewer cabinets and faucets, as well as less insulation, than single-family houses. while the economy is recovering, we are experiencing growth in certain channels for lower price point products. in some of our segments, these shifts have negatively impacted our sales and/or our profitability, and it is uncertain whether these shifts represent long-term changes in consumer preferences. 8 table of contents if we do not timely and effectively identify and respond to these changing consumer preferences and purchasing practices, our relationships with our customers and with consumers could be harmed, the demand for our brands and products could be reduced and our results of operations could be negatively affected. we may not achieve all of the anticipated benefits of our strategic and operational initiatives or our actions to improve our underperforming cabinetry businesses. in 2014, we announced new strategic initiatives, which are designed to increase shareholder value over the mid- to long-term. our business performance and results could be adversely affected if we are unable to execute these strategic initiatives, or if we are unable to execute them in a timely and efficient manner. we have also identified a number of operational initiatives, which include making significant investments in technology systems that are key to managing our business. we could be adversely affected if we do not effectively implement our operational initiatives in a timely manner. the downturn in home improvement and new home construction activity during the recent recession impacted our results, particularly at our cabinetry businesses. in response, we have implemented initiatives to reduce costs and increase sales; however, there is no assurance that our efforts will yield all of the anticipated benefits. our initiatives to improve our cabinetry operations, including rationalizing our businesses, closing plants and reducing headcount, have been complex, time-consuming and expensive. the consolidation of our north american cabinet businesses, in particular, involved the integration of multiple manufacturing processes and information technology platforms and continues to affect our operations. our strategy to increase our cabinetry businesses' sales through brand building, enhanced customer relationships and new product introductions requires time to implement, execute and assess. further, these businesses continue to face pricing pressures, competition from low-cost manufacturers and a shift in the mix of products in certain channels to more value-priced products. if our strategy to increase our sales is not successful, our results of operations may continue to be negatively impacted. our sales are concentrated with two significant customers. the size and importance of individual customers to our businesses continues to increase. in 2014, net sales to our largest customer, the home depot, were $2.3 billion (approximately 27 percent of consolidated net sales). lowe's is our second largest customer. in 2014, sales to lowe's were less than ten percent of our consolidated net sales. these home center customers may reduce the number of vendors they purchase from and can make significant changes in their volume of purchases. additionally, home centers can significantly affect the prices we receive for our products and services, our cost of doing business with them and the terms and conditions on which we do business. if the mix of our business operations significantly changes, including as a result of acquisitions or divestitures, our reliance on these significant customers may increase. although homebuilders, dealers and other retailers represent other channels of distribution for our products and services, the loss of a substantial portion of our sales to the home depot or the loss of our sales to lowe's would have a material adverse effect on our business. further, as some of our customers expand their markets and their targeted customers, conflicts between our existing distribution channels have and will continue to occur, which could impact our results of operations. we may undermine the business relationships we have with our current customers if we increase the amount of business we transact directly with consumers. in addition, our large retail customers are increasingly requesting product exclusivity, which may affect our ability to offer products to other customers and may diminish our ability to leverage economies of scale. 9 table of contents we face significant competition. our products and services face significant competition. we believe that we compete on the basis of price, product and service quality, brand reputation, customer service and product features and innovation. home centers continue to purchase select products in our segments directly from low-cost foreign manufacturers for sale as private label and house brand merchandise. additionally, home centers, which have historically concentrated their sales efforts on retail consumers and remodelers, are increasingly marketing directly to professional contractors and installers, which may impact our margins on our products that contractors and installers would otherwise buy through our dealers and wholesalers. in our other distribution channels, we compete with foreign manufacturers in a variety of our product groups. these foreign manufacturers are putting downward pressures on price. in some of our segments, we are continuing to experience a shift in the mix of some products we sell toward more value-priced or opening price point products, which may impact our ability to maintain or gain share and our profitability. our ability to maintain our competitive position in our industries and to grow our businesses depends upon successfully maintaining our relationships with major customers, implementing growth strategies and entering new geographic areas, including successful international penetration, developing a successful e-business strategy, maintaining strong brands, managing our cost structure, accommodating shorter life-cycles for our products, and developing and innovating products, none of which is assured. if we experience increased commodity costs or limited availability of commodities, our operating results could be negatively impacted. we buy various commodities to manufacture our products, including, among others, wood, brass (made of copper and zinc), titanium dioxide and resins. fluctuations in the availability and prices of these commodities could increase our costs to manufacture our products. further, increases in energy costs could increase our production costs as well as our transportation costs, each of which could negatively affect our financial condition and operating results. it has been, and likely will continue to be, difficult for us to pass on to customers cost increases to cover our increased commodity and production costs. our existing arrangements with customers, competitive considerations and customer resistance to price increases may delay or make us unable to adjust selling prices. if we are not able to increase the prices of our products or achieve cost savings to offset increased commodity and production costs, our financial condition and operating results could be negatively impacted. if we are able to increase our selling prices, sustained price increases for our products may lead to sales declines and loss of share, particularly if our competitors do not increase their prices. when commodity prices decline, we may receive pressure from our customers to reduce our prices. to help reduce price volatility associated with certain anticipated commodity purchases, we use derivative instruments, including commodity futures and swaps. this strategy may increase the possibility that we may make commitments to purchase these commodities at prices that subsequently exceed their market prices, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. we are dependent on third-party suppliers and manufacturers, and the loss of a key supplier or manufacturer could negatively affect our operating results. our ability to offer a wide variety of products depends on our ability to obtain an adequate supply of products and components from manufacturers and other suppliers. we rely heavily or, in certain cases, exclusively, on third-party suppliers for some of our products and key components. failure by our suppliers to provide us quality products on commercially reasonable terms, or to comply with applicable legal requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. resourcing these products and components to another supplier could take time and involve significant 10 table of contents costs. accordingly, the loss of a key supplier, or a substantial decrease in the availability of products or components from our suppliers, could disrupt our business and adversely impact our operating results. further, we manufacture products in asia and source products and components from third parties in asia. the distances involved in these arrangements, together with differences in business practices, shipping and delivery requirements, the limited number of suppliers, and laws and regulations, have increased the complexity of our supply chain logistics and the potential for interruptions in our production scheduling. if we are unable to effectively manage our supply chain, our operating results could be negatively affected. if we cannot adequately protect or prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property we may be adversely affected. protecting our intellectual property is critical to our innovation efforts. we own a number of patents, trade names, brand names and other forms of intellectual property in our products and manufacturing processes throughout the world. there can be no assurance that our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights will prevent violations. our intellectual property may be challenged or infringed upon by third parties, particularly in countries where property rights are not highly developed or protected. in addition, the global nature of our business increases the risk that we may be unable to obtain or maintain our intellectual property rights on reasonable terms. furthermore, others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us. if we are not able to protect our existing intellectual property rights, or prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property, sales of our products may be affected and we may experience reputational damage to our brand names, increased litigation costs and adverse impact to our competitive position, which could affect our results of operations. international political, monetary, economic and social developments affect our business. approximately 19 percent of our sales are made outside of north america (principally in europe) and are transacted in currencies other than u.s. dollars (principally the euro and the british pound sterling). increasing our international sales is an important part of our future strategic plans. in addition, we manufacture products in asia and source products, components and raw materials from third parties in asia. we face risks associated with changes in political, monetary, economic and social environments, labor conditions and practices, the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, cultural differences and differences in enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. u.s. laws and regulations affecting activities of u.s. companies doing business abroad, including tax laws, laws regulating various business practices, and trade regulations which may include duties and tariffs can also impact us. our international operating results may also be influenced by economic conditions in europe. in addition, our financial results could be adversely affected by the currency conversion rate if the u.s. dollar strengthens in value relative to foreign currencies, particularly the euro, and fluctuations in currency exchange rates may present challenges in comparing operating performance from period to period. the long-term performance of our businesses relies on our ability to attract, develop and retain talented personnel. to be successful, we must attract, develop and retain highly qualified and talented personnel who have the experience, knowledge and expertise to successfully implement our key business strategies. we compete for employees with a broad range of employers in many different industries, including large multinational firms, and we invest significant resources in recruiting, developing, motivating and retaining them. the failure to attract and retain key employees, or to develop effective succession planning to assure smooth transitions of those employees and the knowledge and expertise they possess, could negatively affect our competitive position and our operating results. further, as the economy continues to recover, if we are unable to recruit, train and retain sufficient skilled labor, we may not be able to 11 table of contents adequately satisfy increased demand for our products and services, which could impact our operating results. claims and litigation could be costly. we are, from time to time, involved in various claims, litigation matters and regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business and which could have a material adverse effect on us. these matters may include contract disputes, automobile liability and other personal injury claims, warranty disputes, environmental claims or proceedings, other tort claims, employment and tax matters and other proceedings and litigation, including class actions. we are subject to product safety regulations, recalls and direct claims for product liability that can result in significant liability and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, can be costly to defend or manage. also, we rely on other manufacturers to provide us with products or components for products that we sell. due to the difficulty of controlling the quality of products or components sourced from other manufacturers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products and to limitations on our recourse against such suppliers. we have also experienced class action lawsuits in recent years predicated upon claims for antitrust violations, product liability and wage and hour issues. we have generally denied liability and have vigorously defended these cases. due to their scope and complexity, however, these lawsuits can be particularly costly to defend and resolve, and we have and may continue to incur significant costs as a result of these types of lawsuits. our homebuilder customers are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims in the ordinary course of their business. our contractual arrangements with these customers may include our agreement to defend and indemnify them against various liabilities. these claims, often asserted several years after completion of construction, can result in complex lawsuits or claims against the homebuilders and many of their subcontractors, including us, and may require us to incur defense and indemnity costs even when our products or services are not the principal basis for the claims. although we intend to defend all claims and litigation matters vigorously, given the inherently unpredictable nature of claims and litigation, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or litigation matter. we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks of loss resulting from claims and litigation. we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. the levels of insurance we maintain may not be adequate to fully cover any and all losses or liabilities. if any significant accident, judgment, claim or other event is not fully insured or indemnified against, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. see note u to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report for additional information about litigation involving our businesses. if we are required to take additional significant non-cash charges, our financial resources could be reduced and our financial flexibility may be negatively affected. we have recorded significant goodwill and other intangible assets related to prior business combinations on our balance sheet. the valuation of these assets is largely dependent upon the expectations for future performance of our businesses. expectations about the growth of new home construction and home improvement activity may impact whether we are required to recognize additional non-cash, pre-tax impairment charges for goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets or other long-lived assets. if the value of our goodwill or other intangible assets is further impaired, our earnings and shareholders' equity would be adversely affected. 12 table of contents further, our credit agreement contains financial covenants we must comply with, including covenants regarding limits on our debt to total capitalization ratio. if we are required to record additional non-cash impairment charges, our shareholders' equity would be reduced, and our borrowing capacity under our credit agreement may be limited. we have negotiated amendments to our credit agreement to allow for the add-back to shareholders' equity for impairment charges we have taken. there can be no assurance that in the future we would be able to further amend our credit agreement, that alternative financing would be available on acceptable terms and at acceptable rates, or that we would be permitted to obtain alternative financing under the terms of our existing financing arrangements. compliance with government regulation and industry standards could impact our operating results. we are subject to federal, state and foreign government regulations, particularly those pertaining to health and safety (including protection of employees and consumers), climate disruption and environmental issues. in addition to complying with current requirements and requirements that will become effective at a future date, even more stringent requirements could be imposed on us in the future. additionally, some of our products must be certified by industry organizations. compliance with these regulations and industry standards may require us to alter our product designs, our manufacturing and installation processes or our sourcing. such actions could divert our attention and resources to compliance activities, and could cause us to incur higher costs. further, if we do not effectively and timely comply with such regulations and industry standards, our results of operations could be negatively affected. our operations may be adversely affected by information systems interruptions or intrusions. we rely on a number of information technology systems to process, transmit, store and manage information to support our business activities. increased global cybersecurity vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted attacks pose a risk to our information technology systems. we have established security policies, processes and layers of defense designed to help identify and protect against intentional and unintentional misappropriation or corruption of our systems and information and disruption of our operations. despite these efforts, our systems may be damaged, disrupted, or shut down due to attacks by unauthorized access, malicious software, undetected intrusion, hardware failures, or other events, and in these circumstances our disaster recovery planning may be ineffective or inadequate. these breaches or intrusions could lead to business interruption, exposure of proprietary or confidential information, data corruption, damage to our reputation, exposure to litigation, and increased operational costs. such events could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operation. in addition, we could be adversely affected if any of our significant customers or suppliers experience any similar events that disrupt their business operations or damage their reputation. risks related to our proposed spin-off transaction we are pursuing a plan to spin-off our installation and other services segment (our "services business"). we are incurring significant costs in connection with this transaction, which also requires considerable time and attention of our management, and we may not be able to complete the transaction or, if the transaction is completed, realize the anticipated benefits. in september 2014, we announced a plan to separate our services business from our other businesses through a spin-off transaction in which we would distribute the common stock of the services business to our existing shareholders in a tax-free transaction. completion of the transaction will be contingent upon approval by our board of directors, our receipt of an opinion from tax counsel, the 13 table of contents effectiveness of a registration statement on form 10, and certain other conditions. additionally, our ability to complete the spin-off in a timely manner, if at all, could be affected by several factors, including: our ability to obtain sufficient financing for the newly-created entity on acceptable terms; our ability to obtain any necessary consents or approvals; changes in the underlying businesses, contracts, or customers; and political and economic conditions at the time of the transaction. for these and other reasons, we may not be able to complete the spin-off within the expected time frame or at all. even if the transaction is completed, we may not realize some or all of the anticipated benefits from the spin-off. we have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs in connection with this transaction, which will affect our profitability and operating results through completion of the transaction. executing the proposed spin-off also requires considerable time and attention from management, which could distract them from other tasks in operating our business and executing our other strategic initiatives. the proposed spin-off of our services business could result in substantial tax liability to us and our stockholders. among the conditions to completing the spin-off will be our receipt of an opinion of tax counsel substantially to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the spin-off and certain related transactions will qualify for tax-free treatment under certain sections of the internal revenue code. however, if the factual assumptions or representations made by us in connection with the delivery of the opinion are inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business, we will not be able to rely on the opinion. furthermore, the opinion will not be binding on the internal revenue service ("irs") or the courts. if, notwithstanding receipt of the opinion, the spin-off transaction and certain related transactions are determined to be taxable, we would be subject to a substantial tax liability. in addition, if the spin-off transaction is taxable, each holder of our common stock who receives shares of the new services business company would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares received, thereby potentially increasing such holder's tax liability. even if the spin-off otherwise qualifies as a tax-free transaction, the distribution could be taxable to us (but not to our stockholders) in certain circumstances if future significant acquisitions of our stock or the stock of the new services business company are deemed to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the spin-off. in this event, the resulting tax liability could be substantial. in connection with the spin-off, we expect to enter into a tax matters agreement with the new services business company, under which it will agree not to enter into any transaction without our consent that could cause any portion of the spin-off to be taxable to us and to indemnify us for any tax liability resulting from any such transaction. these obligations and potential tax liabilities may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of us or of the new services business company. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we have considered the provisions of accounting guidance regarding disclosure of accounting policies for derivative financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments, and disclosure of quantitative and qualitative information about market risk inherent in derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments. we are exposed to the impact of changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity costs in the normal course of business and to market price fluctuations related to our financial investments. we have involvement with derivative financial instruments and use such instruments to the extent necessary to manage exposure to foreign currency fluctuations and commodity fluctuations. see note f to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our derivative instruments. at december 31, 2014, we performed sensitivity analyses to assess the potential loss in the fair values of market risk sensitive instruments resulting from a hypothetical change of 10 percent in foreign currency exchange rates, a 10 percent decline in the market value of our long-term investments, a 10 percent change in commodity costs, or a 10 percent change in interest rates. based upon the analyses performed, such changes would not be expected to materially affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 38 table of contentsrisk factors. there are a number of business risks and uncertainties that could affect our business. these risks and uncertainties could cause our actual results to differ from past performance or expected results. we consider the following risks and uncertainties to be most relevant to our specific business activities. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, also may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. our business relies on home improvement and new home construction activity, both of which are cyclical. a significant portion of our business relies on home improvement, including repair and remodeling projects, of which our reliance has increased following the spin off of topbuild corp. ("topbuild") in 2015. our business also relies on new home construction activity. macroeconomic conditions in the u.s. and europe, including consumer confidence levels, fluctuations in home prices, unemployment and underemployment levels, consumer income and debt levels, household formation and the availability of home equity loans and mortgages and the interest rates for such loans, affect both consumers' discretionary spending on home improvement projects as well as new home construction activity. while improving, both consumer spending for big ticket remodeling projects and new home construction continue to be below historic average levels. adverse changes or uncertainty regarding these macroeconomic conditions could result in a decline in spending on home improvement projects and a decline in demand for new home construction, both of which could adversely affect our results of operations and our financial position. if we do not maintain strong brands, develop new products or respond to changing purchasing practices and consumer preferences we could lose market share. our competitive advantage is due, in part, to our ability to maintain our strong brands and to develop and introduce innovative new and improved products. while we continue to invest in brand building and brand awareness, these initiatives may not be successful. the uncertainties associated with developing and introducing new and improved products, such as gauging changing consumer preferences and successfully developing, manufacturing, marketing and selling these products, may impact the success of our product introductions. if we do not introduce new or improved products in a timely manner or if these products do not gain widespread acceptance, we could lose market share, which could negatively impact our operating results. in recent years, consumer purchasing practices and preferences have shifted and our customers' business models and strategies have changed. consumers are increasingly using the internet and mobile technology to research home improvement products and to inform and provide feedback on their purchasing and ownership experience for these products. e-business is a rapidly developing area, and the refinement and execution of a successful e-business strategy involves significant time, investment and resources. if we are unable to successfully execute our e-business strategy, our brands may lose market share. while u.s. demand for single-family houses is increasing, the demand for multi-family housing units such as apartments and condominiums continues to be elevated compared to historic levels. multi-family units typically are smaller than single-family houses and require fewer kitchen and bathroom cabinets than single-family houses. if this demand mix remains, it may limit our growth opportunities. if we do not timely and effectively identify and respond to these changing purchasing practices and consumer preferences, our relationships with our customers and with consumers could be harmed, the demand for our brands and products could be reduced and our results of operations could be negatively affected. 8 table of contents we face significant competition. our products face significant competition. we believe that brand reputation is an important factor impacting product selection and that we compete on the basis of product features and innovation, product quality, customer service, warranty and price. home center retailers continue to purchase products in our segments directly from low-cost foreign manufacturers for sale as private label merchandise. additionally, home center retailers, which have historically concentrated their sales efforts on retail consumers and remodelers, are increasingly marketing directly to professional contractors and installers, which may impact our margins on our products that contractors and installers would otherwise buy through our dealers and wholesalers. we sell many of our products through distributors and independent dealers and we rely on these customers to market and promote our products to consumers. our success with these customers is dependent on our ability to provide quality products and timely delivery. additionally, in these channels as well as at home center retailers, we compete with foreign manufacturers in a variety of our product groups. some of these foreign manufacturers are putting downward pressures on price. as market dynamics change, we may experience a shift in the mix of some products we sell toward more value-priced or opening price point products, which may impact our ability to maintain or gain market share and/or our profitability. our ability to maintain our competitive position in our industries depends upon maintaining strong brands, developing and innovating products, maintaining strong relationships with our customers, managing our cost structure, executing a successful e-business strategy, accommodating customer demands for new and improved products on a shorter cycle, implementing growth strategies and entering new domestic and international areas, none of which is assured. our sales are concentrated with two significant customers. as a result of the spin off of topbuild in 2015, the mix of our business operations has changed and the concentration of our sales to our two largest customers has increased and may continue to increase. in 2015, net sales to our largest customer, the home depot, were $2.4 billion (approximately 33 percent of our consolidated net sales). in 2015, net sales to lowe's, our second largest customer, were less than ten percent of our consolidated net sales. if the mix of our business operations continues to change, including as a result of acquisitions or divestitures, our reliance on these significant customers may further increase. these home center retailers can significantly affect the prices we receive for our products and the terms and conditions on which we do business with them. additionally, these home center customers may reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase and could make significant changes in their volume of purchases. although other retailers, dealers, distributors and homebuilders represent other channels of distribution for our products and services, the loss of a substantial portion of our sales to the home depot or the loss of all of our sales to lowe's would have a material adverse effect on our business. further, as some of these home center retailers expand their markets and targeted customers and as consumer purchasing practices change and e-commerce increases, conflicts between our existing distribution channels have and will continue to occur, which could impact our results of operations. our relationships with our customers may be impacted if we increase the amount of business we transact directly with consumers. in addition, our large retail customers request product exclusivity from time to time, which may affect our ability to offer products to other customers and may diminish our ability to leverage economies of scale. we may not achieve all of the anticipated benefits of our strategic initiatives. we continue to pursue our strategic initiatives, which are designed to increase shareholder value over the mid- to long-term. our business performance and results could be adversely affected if we are 9 table of contents unable to successfully execute these initiatives, or if we are unable to execute them in a timely and efficient manner. we could also be adversely affected if we are unable to effectively manage change throughout our organization. pursuing the acquisition of businesses complementary to our portfolio is a component of our strategy for future growth. if we are not able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or consummate potential acquisitions, our long-term competitive positioning may be impacted. even if we are successful in acquiring businesses, we may experience risks in integrating these businesses into our existing business. such risks include difficulties realizing expected synergies and economies of scale, diversion of our resources, unforeseen liabilities, issues with the new or existing customers or suppliers, and difficulties in retaining critical employees of the acquired businesses. future foreign acquisitions may also increase our exposure to foreign currency risks and risks associated with interpretation and enforcement of foreign regulations. our failure to address these risks could cause us to incur additional costs and/or fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions and could adversely affect our results of operations. we may not be able to sustain the turnaround in our cabinetry businesses. our initiatives to improve our cabinetry operations have been complex, time-consuming and expensive. although the operating results of our cabinetry businesses improved in 2015, we continue to focus on obtaining profitable sales, reducing our cost structure and improving production efficiencies. our strategies in these areas require time to implement, execute and assess and may not be successful. if the improvement in our cabinetry businesses cannot be sustained or if the pace of the improvement slows, our results of operations may be negatively impacted. variability in commodity costs or limited availability of commodities could impact us. we buy various commodities to manufacture our products, including, among others, brass, resins, titanium dioxide, zinc, wood and glass. in addition, water is a significant component of many of our architectural coatings products and may be subject to restrictions in certain regions. fluctuations in the availability and prices of these commodities could increase our costs to manufacture our products. further, increases in energy costs could increase our production costs as well as our transportation costs, each of which could negatively affect our financial condition and operating results. it has been, and likely will continue to be, difficult for us to pass on to customers cost increases to cover our increased commodity and production costs. our existing arrangements with customers, competitive considerations and customer resistance to price increases may delay or make us unable to adjust selling prices. if we are not able to increase the prices of our products or achieve cost savings to offset increased commodity and production costs, our financial condition and operating results could be negatively impacted. if we are able to increase our selling prices, sustained price increases for our products may lead to sales declines and loss of market share, particularly if our competitors do not increase their prices. when commodity prices decline, we have experienced and may in the future receive pressure from our customers to reduce our prices. such reductions could impact our operating results. to help reduce price volatility associated with certain anticipated commodity purchases, we use derivative instruments, including commodity futures and swaps. this strategy increases the possibility that we may make commitments to purchase these commodities at prices that subsequently exceed their market prices, which has and may continue to adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. we also have agreements with certain significant suppliers to help assure continued availability. 10 table of contents we are dependent on third-party suppliers. we rely heavily on third-party suppliers for many of our products and components, and our ability to offer a wide variety of products depends on our ability to obtain an adequate supply of these products and components. failure by our suppliers to provide us quality products on commercially reasonable terms, or to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. resourcing these products and components to another supplier could take time and involve significant costs. accordingly, the loss of critical suppliers, or a substantial decrease in the availability of products or components from our suppliers, could disrupt our business and adversely impact our operating results. many of the suppliers upon whom we rely are located in foreign countries. the differences in business practices, shipping and delivery requirements and laws and regulations, together with the limited number of suppliers, have increased the complexity of our supply chain logistics and the potential for interruptions in our production scheduling. if we are unable to effectively manage our supply chain, our operating results could be negatively affected. there are risks associated with international operations and global strategies. approximately 21 percent of our sales are made outside of north america (principally in europe) and are transacted in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. following the topbuild spin off, a greater proportion of our sales occurs outside of the u.s., and increasing our international sales is an important part of our strategic plans. in addition to our european operations, we manufacture products in asia and source products and components from third parties globally. risks associated with our international operations include changes in political, monetary and social environments, labor conditions and practices, the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, social and political unrest, terrorist attacks, cultural differences and differences in enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. our operating results are also impacted by international economic conditions, primarily in europe. as our sales made outside of the u.s. have increased, we have experienced a greater negative impact from currency conversion rates, particularly the euro, the canadian dollar and the british pound sterling, on our results of operations due to the strength of the u.s. dollar compared to foreign currencies. fluctuations in currency exchange rates may present challenges in comparing operating performance from period to period. u.s. laws and regulations regarding activities of u.s. companies doing business abroad, including tax laws, laws regulating competition, anti-bribery/anti-corruption and other business practices, and trade regulations, which may include duties and tariffs, can also affect us. while it is difficult to assess what changes may occur and the relative impact on our international tax structure, it is possible that significant changes in how u.s. and foreign jurisdictions tax cross-border transactions could adversely impact our financial results. we may not be able to adequately protect or prevent the unauthorized use of our intellectual property. protecting our intellectual property is critical to our growth and innovation efforts. we own a number of patents, trade names, brand names and other forms of intellectual property in our products and manufacturing processes throughout the world. there can be no assurance that our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights will prevent violations. our intellectual property may be challenged or infringed upon by third parties, particularly in countries where property rights are not highly developed or protected. in addition, the global nature of our business increases the risk that we may be unable to obtain or maintain our intellectual property rights on reasonable terms. furthermore, others may assert intellectual property infringement claims against us. protecting and defending our intellectual property could be costly, time consuming and require significant resources. if we are not able to protect our existing 11 table of contents intellectual property rights, or prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property, sales of our products may be affected and we may experience reputational damage to our brand names, increased litigation costs and adverse impact to our competitive position, which could affect our results of operations. the long-term performance of our businesses relies on our ability to attract, develop and retain talented personnel. to be successful, we must attract, develop and retain highly qualified and talented personnel who have the experience, knowledge and expertise to successfully implement our key business strategies. we compete for employees with a broad range of employers in many different industries, including large multinational firms, and we invest significant resources in recruiting, developing, motivating and retaining them. the failure to attract and retain key employees, or to develop effective succession planning to assure smooth transitions of those employees and the knowledge and expertise they possess, could negatively affect our competitive position and our operating results. if we are unable to recruit, train and retain sufficient skilled and unskilled labor, we may not be able to adequately satisfy increased demand for our products and services, and our operating results could be adversely affected. claims and litigation could be costly. we are involved in various claims, litigation matters and regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business and which could have a material adverse effect on us. these matters may include competition, products liability, employment, warranty disputes, advertising claims, contract disputes, personal injury claims, environmental claims or proceedings, and other proceedings and litigation, including class actions. we are subject to product safety regulations, recalls and direct claims for product liability that can result in significant liability and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, can damage the reputation of our brands and business and can be costly to defend or manage. also, we rely on other manufacturers to provide us with products or components for products that we sell. due to the difficulty of controlling the quality of products or components sourced from other manufacturers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products and to limitations on our recourse against such suppliers. we intend to defend all claims and litigation matters vigorously; however, given the inherently unpredictable nature of claims and litigation, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or litigation matter. in recent years, we have experienced class action lawsuits predicated upon claims for product liability and wage and hour issues, and we may be subject to other consumer claims in the future. we have generally denied liability and have vigorously defended these cases. due to their scope and complexity, however, these lawsuits can be particularly costly to defend and resolve, and we have and may continue to incur significant costs as a result of these types of lawsuits. we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks of loss resulting from claims and litigation. we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. the levels of insurance we maintain may not be adequate to fully cover any and all losses or liabilities. if any significant accident, judgment, claim or other event is not fully insured or indemnified against, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may also experience increased costs for insurance coverage that could impact our financial results. see note u to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report for additional information about litigation involving our businesses. 12 table of contents compliance with laws, government regulation and industry standards could impact our operating results. we are subject to federal, state and foreign government regulations, particularly those pertaining to health and safety (including protection of employees and consumers), product compliance, competition practices, import and export regulations, climate disruption and environmental issues. in addition to complying with current requirements and requirements that will become effective at a future date, even more stringent requirements could be imposed on us in the future. additionally, some of our products must be certified by industry organizations. compliance with these laws, regulations and industry standards may require us to alter our product designs, our manufacturing processes or our sourcing. further, compliance activities are costly and require significant management attention and resources. if we do not effectively and timely comply with such regulations and industry standards, our results of operations could be negatively affected. we rely on information systems and technology, and disruptions to these systems could impact our operating results. we rely on a number of information systems and technology to process, transmit, store and manage information to support our business activities, and we have plans to make significant investments in new technology systems. we may be adversely impacted if our information systems are disrupted or fail, or if we do not appropriately select and implement our new technology systems in a timely manner. in addition to the disruptions that may occur from interruptions in our systems, increased global cybersecurity vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted attacks pose a risk to our information technology systems. we have established security policies, processes and layers of defense designed to help identify and protect against intentional and unintentional misappropriation or corruption of our systems and information and disruption of our operations. despite these efforts, our systems may be damaged, disrupted, or shut down due to attacks by unauthorized access, malicious software, undetected intrusion, hardware failures, or other events, and in these circumstances our disaster recovery plans may be ineffective or inadequate. these breaches or intrusions could lead to business interruption, exposure of proprietary or confidential information, data corruption, damage to our reputation, exposure to litigation, and increased operational costs. such events could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. in addition, we could be adversely affected if any of our significant customers or suppliers experiences any similar events that disrupt their business operations or damage their reputation. restrictive covenants in our credit agreement could limit our financial flexibility. we must comply with both financial and nonfinancial covenants in our credit agreement, and in order to borrow under it, we cannot be in default with any of those provisions. our ability to borrow under the credit agreement could be impacted if our earnings significantly decline to a level where we are not in compliance with the financial covenants or if we default on any nonfinancial covenants. in the past, we have been able to amend the covenants in our credit agreement, but there can be no assurance that in the future we would be able to further amend them. if we were unable to borrow under our credit agreement, our financial flexibility would be restricted if we were also unable to obtain alternative financing on acceptable terms and at acceptable rates or if we were not permitted to obtain alternative financing under the terms of our existing financing arrangements. the topbuild spin off could result in substantial tax liability to us and our stockholders. we received an opinion of tax counsel substantially to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the spin off and certain related transactions qualify for tax-free treatment under certain sections of the internal revenue code. however, if the factual assumptions or representations made by us in connection with the delivery of the opinion are inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, including 13 table of contents those relating to the past and future conduct of our business, we will not be able to rely on the opinion. furthermore, the opinion is not binding on the internal revenue service or the courts. if, notwithstanding receipt of the opinion, the spin off transaction and certain related transactions are determined to be taxable, we would be subject to a substantial tax liability. in addition, if the spin off transaction is taxable, each holder of our common stock who received shares of topbuild in connection with the spin off would generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares received, thereby potentially increasing such holder's tax liability. even if the spin off otherwise qualifies as a tax-free transaction, the distribution could be taxable to us (but not to our stockholders) in certain circumstances if future significant acquisitions of our stock or the stock of topbuild are deemed to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the spin off. in this event, the resulting tax liability could be substantial. in connection with the spin off, we entered into a tax matters agreement with topbuild, pursuant to which topbuild agreed to not enter into any transaction that could cause any portion of the spin off to be taxable to us without our consent and to indemnify us for any tax liability resulting from any such transaction. these obligations and potential tax liabilities may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of us. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we have considered the provisions of accounting guidance regarding disclosure of accounting policies for derivative financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments, and disclosure of quantitative and qualitative information about market risk inherent in derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments. we are exposed to the impact of changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity costs in the normal course of business and to market price fluctuations related to our financial investments. we have involvement with derivative financial instruments and use such instruments to the extent necessary to manage exposure to foreign currency fluctuations and commodity fluctuations. see note f to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our derivative instruments. at december 31, 2015, we performed sensitivity analyses to assess the potential loss in the fair values of market risk sensitive instruments resulting from a hypothetical change of 10 percent in foreign currency exchange rates, a 10 percent decline in the market value of our long-term investments, a 10 percent change in commodity costs, or a 10 percent change in interest rates. based upon the analyses performed, such changes would not be expected to materially affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 38 table of contentsrisk factors. there are a number of business risks and uncertainties that could affect our business. these risks and uncertainties could cause our actual results to differ from past performance or expected results. we consider the following risks and uncertainties to be most relevant to our specific business activities. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, also may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. a significant portion of our business relies on home improvement and new home construction activity levels, both of which are experiencing a prolonged and substantial downturn. a significant portion of our business relies on home improvement (including repair and remodel) and new home construction activity levels, principally in north america and europe. the current economic decline has adversely affected our home improvement businesses. continued low levels of consumer confidence, high levels of unemployment, and the downward pressure on home prices have limited consumers discretionary spending and have made consumers reluctant to make additional investments in existing homes, including large kitchen and bath remodeling projects. the increasing number of households with negative equity in their homes, and more conservative residential lending practices for home equity loans that are often used to finance repairs and remodeling, are limiting the ability of consumers to finance home improvements. additionally, sales of existing homes, which significantly impact our home improvement business, have decreased significantly in the past few years. new home construction, which is cyclical in nature, is experiencing a prolonged and substantial downturn marked by continued softness in the demand for new homes, an oversupply of existing 8 table of contents homes on the market and more stringent standards for homebuyers seeking financing. the oversupply of existing homes held for sale is exacerbated by slower household formation growth rates, the significant number of short sales and home mortgage foreclosures, as well as uncertainties in the home foreclosure process, all of which continue to contribute to the downward pressure on home prices. further, the expiration or scaling back of homebuyer tax credits and other government programs has also negatively impacted home sales. it is uncertain when, and to what extent, these trends and factors might reverse or improve. although we believe that the long-term outlook for home improvement and new home construction is favorable, we cannot predict the type, timing or strength of a recovery in these areas. the large number of borrowers who remain at risk of potentially losing their homes through foreclosures or short sales, coupled with the voluntary and involuntary halts of foreclosure proceedings by lenders due to legal challenges, could prolong the downturn in home improvement and new home construction activity. prolonged depressed activity levels in consumer spending for home improvements and new home construction will continue to adversely affect our results of operations and our financial position and may disproportionately affect our business segments that are most heavily dependent on new home construction and large consumer investments in home remodeling projects. the prolonged economic downturn could result in our taking additional significant non-cash charges, which may reduce our financial resources and flexibility and could negatively affect our earnings and reduce shareholders equity. we have recorded significant goodwill and other intangible assets related to prior business combinations on our balance sheet. the valuation of these assets is largely dependent upon the expectations for future performance of our businesses. in recent years, we have recorded significant non-cash impairment charges for financial investments and goodwill and other intangible assets. we have also recorded a valuation allowance related to our deferred tax assets. a further decline in the expectation of our future performance, or a further deterioration in expectations regarding the timing and the extent of the recovery of the new home construction and home improvement segments, may cause us to recognize additional non-cash, pre-tax impairment charges for goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets or other long-lived assets, which are not determinable at this time. if the value of goodwill or other intangible assets is impaired, our earnings and shareholders equity would be adversely affected. further, our credit agreement contains financial covenants we must comply with, including covenants regarding limits on our debt to total capitalization ratio. if we are required to record additional non-cash impairment charges, which would reduce our shareholders equity, our borrowing capacity under our credit agreement may be limited. we recently amended our credit agreement to allow for the add-back to shareholders equity for impairment charges we have taken. there can be no assurance that we would be able to further amend the credit agreement in the future or that alternative financing would be available on acceptable terms and at acceptable rates, or that we would be permitted to obtain alternative financing under the terms of our existing financing arrangements. if we do not maintain strong brands, develop new products or respond to changing consumer preferences and purchasing practices, our results could be adversely affected. our competitive advantage is due, in part, to our ability to maintain our strong brands and to develop and introduce innovative new and improved products. we have increased our focus on investment in brand building and brand awareness, as well as new product development and product innovation. the uncertainties associated with developing and introducing new and improved products, such as gauging changing consumer preferences and successfully developing, manufacturing, marketing and selling new or improved products may impact the success of our new product introductions. if our new products do not gain widespread market acceptance, we could lose market share, which could negatively impact our operating results. 9 table of contents further, the volatile and challenging economic environment of recent years has caused shifts in consumer preferences and purchasing practices and changes in the business models and strategies of our customers. for example, the size of new homes has decreased, and demand has increased for multi-family housing units such as apartments and condominiums, which are often smaller than single-family housing units. the effect of these trends has resulted in smaller kitchens and smaller and fewer bathrooms, each with fewer cabinets and faucets, as well as the use of less insulation. such shifts, which may or may not be long-term, have altered the quantity, type and prices of products demanded by the end-consumer and our customers. additionally, consumers are increasingly using the internet and mobile technology to research home improvement products and enhance their purchasing experience for these products. if we do not timely and effectively identify and respond to these changing consumer preferences and purchasing practices, our relationships with our customers could be harmed, the demand for our products could be reduced and our market share could be negatively affected. our response to the prolonged economic downturn has been to continue our focus on implementation of cost-savings initiatives, which have been costly and may not be effective. during the current downturn in home improvement and new home construction, we have focused on cost-saving initiatives, including rationalizing our businesses, particularly the consolidation of our cabinet businesses, as well as plant closures, headcount reductions, and system implementations. the consolidation of our cabinet businesses has involved the integration of multiple manufacturing processes and information technology platforms, which has been complex, time-consuming and expensive. if we cannot successfully implement this consolidation or our other cost-savings initiatives, or if it becomes more expensive to make future cost-savings changes, we may not fully achieve the anticipated benefits from these initiatives. further, if we do not effectively balance our focus on cost savings with the need to maintain a strong sales presence for our brands, we could lose market share. in the future, we will need to continually evaluate our productivity to assess opportunities to reduce costs, and we may incur additional costs and charges relating to further cost-savings initiatives. however, gaining additional efficiencies may become increasingly difficult over time. if the eventual recovery of our markets is fast-paced and robust, we may not be able to replace our reduced manufacturing and installation capacity in a timely fashion and our ability to respond to increased demand could be limited, which could result in lost market share and, ultimately, could negatively impact our operating results. we rely on key customers and may encounter conflicts within and between our distribution channels. the size and importance of individual customers to our businesses has increased as customers in our major distribution channels have consolidated or exited the business. larger customers can make significant changes in their volume of purchases and can otherwise significantly affect the prices we receive for our products and services, our costs of doing business with them and the terms and conditions on which we do business. sales of our home improvement and building products to home centers are substantial. in 2011, sales to our largest customer, the home depot, were $2.0 billion (approximately 27 percent of our consolidated net sales). lowe is our second largest customer. in 2011, our sales to lowe were less than ten percent of our consolidated net sales. although homebuilders, dealers and other retailers represent other channels of distribution for our products and services, the loss of a substantial portion of our sales to the home depot or the loss of our sales to lowe would have a material adverse effect on our business. as some of our customers expand their markets and their targeted customers, conflicts between our existing distribution channels have and will continue to occur. in addition, we may undermine the business relationships we have with customers who purchase our products through traditional wholesale channels as we increase the amount of business we transact directly with our customers. in 10 table of contents addition, our large retail customers are increasingly requesting product exclusivity, which may affect our ability to offer products to other customers and may diminish our ability to leverage economies of scale. our principal markets are highly competitive. the major geographic markets for our products and services are highly competitive. competition is further intensified during economic downturns. home centers are increasing their purchases of products directly from low-cost overseas suppliers for sale as private label and house brand merchandise. additionally, home centers, which have historically concentrated their sales efforts on retail consumers and remodelers, are increasingly turning their marketing efforts directly toward professional contractors and installers. we believe that competition in our industries is based on price, product and service quality, brand reputation, customer service and product features and innovation. in addition to the challenges we have faced as a result of the economic downturn, our ability to maintain our competitive positions in our markets and to grow our businesses depends to a large extent upon successfully maintaining our relationships with major customers, implementing growth strategies in our existing markets and entering new geographic markets, including successful penetration of international markets, capitalizing on and strengthening our brand names, managing our cost structure, accommodating shorter life-cycles for our products and product development and innovation. increased commodity costs and limited availability of commodities could affect our operating results. we buy various commodities to manufacture our products, including, among others, wood, brass (made of copper and zinc), titanium dioxide and resins. fluctuations in the availability and prices of these commodities could increase our costs to manufacture our products. further, increases in energy costs not only increase our production costs, but also the cost to transport our products, each of which could negatively affect our financial condition and operating results. it has been, and likely will continue to be, difficult for us to pass on to customers cost increases to cover our increased commodity and production costs. our existing arrangements with customers, competitive considerations and customer resistance to price increases may delay or make us unable to adjust selling prices. if we are not able to increase the prices of our products or achieve cost savings to offset increased commodity and production costs, our financial condition and operating results could be negatively impacted. if we are able to increase our selling prices, sustained price increases for our products may lead to sales declines and loss of market share, particularly if our competitors do not increase their prices. when commodity prices decline, we may receive pressure from our customers to reduce prices for our products and services. to reduce the price volatility associated with certain anticipated commodity purchases, we use derivative instruments, including commodity futures and swaps. we may incur net substantial costs as part of our strategy to hedge against price volatility of certain commodities we purchase and we may make commitments to purchase these commodities at prices that subsequently exceed their market prices, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. we are dependent on third-party suppliers and manufacturers, and the loss of a key supplier or manufacturer could negatively affect our operating results. our ability to offer a wide variety of products depends on our ability to obtain an adequate supply of products and components from manufacturers and other suppliers. we rely heavily or, in certain cases, exclusively, on outside suppliers for some of our products and key components. failure by our suppliers to provide us quality products on commercially reasonable terms, and to comply with legal requirements for business practices, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or 11 table of contents operating results. although these products and components are generally obtainable in sufficient quantities from other sources, resourcing them to another supplier could take time and could involve significant costs. accordingly, the loss of a key supplier, or a substantial decrease in the availability of products or components from our suppliers, could disrupt our business and adversely impact our operating results. further, we manufacture products in asia and source products and components from third parties in asia. the distances involved in these arrangements, together with differences in business practices, shipping and delivery requirements, the limited number of suppliers, and laws and regulations, have increased the difficulty of managing our supply chain, the complexity of our supply chain logistics and the potential for interruptions in our production scheduling. if we are unable to effectively manage our supply chain, our operating results could be negatively affected. international political, monetary, economic and social developments affect our business. over 20 percent of our sales are made outside of north america (principally in europe) and are transacted in currencies other than u.s. dollars (principally the euro and the british pound sterling). increased international sales make up an important part of our future strategic plans. in addition, we manufacture products in asia and source products and components from third parties in asia. our international business faces risks associated with changes in political, monetary, economic and social environments, labor conditions and practices, the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, cultural differences and differences in enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. u.s. laws affecting activities of u.s. companies doing business abroad, including tax laws and laws regulating various business practices, also impact our international business. our international operating results may be influenced, when compared to our north american results, in part by relative economic conditions in the european markets, including uncertainty regarding the european sovereign debt crisis, and competitive pricing pressures on certain products. the financial reporting of our consolidated operating results is affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may present challenges in comparing operating performance from period to period and in forecasting future performance. we have financial commitments and investments in financial assets, including assets that are not readily marketable and involve financial risk. we continue to reduce our investment in private equity funds. since there is no active trading market for investments in private equity funds, they are for the most part illiquid. these investments, by their nature, can also have a relatively higher degree of business risk, including financial leverage, than other financial investments. future changes in market conditions, the future performance of the underlying investments or new information provided by private equity fund managers could affect the recorded values of such investments or the amounts realized upon liquidation. in addition, we have commitments that require us to contribute additional capital to these private equity funds upon receipt of a capital call from the private equity fund. claims and litigation could be costly. we are, from time to time, involved in various claims, litigation matters and regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business and which could have a material adverse effect on us. these matters may include contract disputes, automobile liability and other personal injury claims, warranty disputes, environmental claims or proceedings, other tort claims, employment and tax matters and other proceedings and litigation, including class actions. we are subject to product safety regulations, recalls and direct claims for product liability that can result in significant liability and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, can be costly to defend or manage. also, we increasingly rely on other manufacturers to provide us with products or components for 12 table of contents products that we sell. due to the difficulty of controlling the quality of products or components sourced from other manufacturers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products and to limitations on our recourse against such suppliers. we have also experienced class action lawsuits in recent years predicated upon claims for antitrust violations, product liability and wage and hour issues. we have generally denied liability and have vigorously defended these cases. due to their scope and complexity, however, these lawsuits are particularly costly to resolve and significant exposures have been alleged. increasingly, our homebuilder customers are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims in the ordinary course of their business. our contractual arrangements with these customers may include our agreement to defend and indemnify them against various liabilities caused by our negligence. these claims, often asserted several years after completion of construction, can result in complex lawsuits or claims against the homebuilders and many of their subcontractors, including us, and may require us to incur defense and indemnity costs even when our products or services are not the principal basis for the claims. although we intend to defend all claims and litigation matters vigorously, given the inherently unpredictable nature of claims and litigation, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or litigation matter. we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks of loss resulting from claims and litigation. we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. the levels of insurance we maintain may not be adequate to fully cover any and all losses or liabilities. if any significant accident, judgment, claim or other event is not fully insured or indemnified against, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. see note to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report for additional information about litigation involving our businesses. government and industry responses to environmental and health and safety concerns could impact our capital expenditures and operating results. we are subject to u.s. and foreign government regulations pertaining to health and safety (including protection of employees and consumers), climate disruption and environmental issues. in addition to complying with current requirements and requirements that will become effective at a future date, even more stringent requirements could be imposed on our industries in the future. additionally, some of our products must be certified by industry organizations. compliance with these regulations and industry standards may require us to alter our manufacturing and installation processes and our sourcing, which could adversely impact our competitive position. further, if we do not effectively and timely comply with such regulations and industry standards, our operating results could be negatively affected. the long-term performance of our businesses relies on our ability to attract, develop and retain talented personnel. to be successful, we must attract, develop and retain highly qualified and talented personnel and, as we consider entering new international markets, skilled personnel familiar with these markets. we compete for employees with a broad range of employers in many different industries, including large multinational firms, and we invest significant resources in recruiting, developing, motivating and retaining them. the failure to attract, develop, motivate and retain key employees could negatively affect our competitive position and our operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we have considered the provisions of accounting guidance regarding disclosure of accounting policies for derivative financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments, and disclosure of quantitative and qualitative information about market risk inherent in derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments. we are exposed to the impact of changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity costs in the normal course of business and to market price fluctuations related to our financial investments. we have involvement with derivative financial instruments and use such instruments to the extent necessary to manage exposure to foreign currency fluctuations and commodity fluctuations. see note f to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our derivative instruments. at december 31, 2011, we had entered into foreign currency forward contracts to manage exposure to currency fluctuations related primarily to the european euro and the u.s. dollar, several metals contracts to manage our exposure to increases in the price of copper and zinc and interest rate swap agreements to hedge the volatility in interest payments associated with our expected debt issuance in 2012. at december 31, 2011, we performed sensitivity analyses to assess the potential loss in the fair values of market risk sensitive instruments resulting from a hypothetical change of 10 percent in foreign currency exchange rates, a 10 percent decline in the market value of our long-term investments, a 10 percent change in commodity costs, or a 10 percent change in interest rates. based upon the analyses performed, such changes would not be expected to materially affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 41 table of contentsrisk factors. there are a number of business risks and uncertainties that could affect our business. these risks and uncertainties could cause our actual results to differ from past performance or expected results. 7 table of contents we consider the following risks and uncertainties to be most relevant to our specific business activities. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, also may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. a significant portion of our business relies on home improvement and new home construction activity, both of which remain at low levels. a significant portion of our business relies on home improvement (including repair and remodel) and new home construction activity, principally in north america and europe. the economic decline in the past four years adversely affected our home improvement businesses. persistent low levels of consumer confidence and depressed home prices, and elevated levels of unemployment and underemployment, have limited consumers discretionary spending and have made consumers reluctant to make investments in existing homes, including large kitchen and bath remodeling projects. the significant number of households with negative equity in their homes, and more conservative residential lending practices for home equity loans often used to finance repairs and remodeling, have limited the ability of consumers to finance home improvements. additionally, sales of existing homes, which significantly impact our home improvement business, continue to be below normal levels. new home construction is cyclical in nature. although home construction is improving and is expected to continue to improve, the demand for new homes remains below the historic average, and stringent standards continue to be imposed on homebuyers seeking financing. we cannot predict the type or timing of a recovery in home improvement, nor the strength of a recovery in new home construction. depressed consumer spending for home improvements and continued below-normal levels of new home construction may adversely affect our results of operations and our financial position. continued uncertainty regarding an economic recovery could result in our taking additional significant non-cash charges, which may reduce our financial resources and flexibility and could negatively affect our earnings and reduce shareholders equity. we have recorded significant goodwill and other intangible assets related to prior business combinations on our balance sheet. the valuation of these assets is largely dependent upon the expectations for future performance of our businesses. in recent years, we have recorded significant non-cash impairment charges for financial investments, goodwill and other intangible assets. we have also recorded valuation allowances related to our deferred tax assets. a further decline in the expectation of our future performance, or a further deterioration in expectations regarding the timing and the extent of the recovery of new home construction and home improvement, may cause us to recognize additional non-cash, pre-tax impairment charges for goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets or other long-lived assets, which are not determinable at this time. if the value of goodwill or other intangible assets is impaired, our earnings and shareholders equity would be adversely affected. further, our credit agreement contains financial covenants we must comply with, including covenants regarding limits on our debt to total capitalization ratio. if we are required to record additional non-cash impairment charges, our shareholders equity would be reduced, and our borrowing capacity under our credit agreement may be limited. in the past we have negotiated amendments to our credit agreement to allow for the add-back to shareholders equity for impairment charges we have taken. there can be no assurance that in the future we would be able to further amend our credit agreement, that alternative financing would be available on acceptable terms and at acceptable rates, or that we would be permitted to obtain alternative financing under the terms of our existing financing arrangements. 8 table of contents if we do not maintain strong brands or respond to changing consumer preferences and purchasing practices, we could lose share and our results could be adversely affected. our competitive advantage is due, in part, to our ability to maintain our strong brands and to develop and introduce innovative new and improved products. while we continue to invest in brand building and brand awareness, these initiatives may not be successful. the uncertainties associated with developing and introducing new and improved products, such as gauging changing consumer preferences and successfully developing, manufacturing, marketing and selling these products, may impact the success of our product introductions. if our new or improved products do not gain widespread acceptance, we could lose share, which could negatively impact our operating results. further, the volatile and challenging economic environment of recent years has caused shifts in consumer preferences and purchasing practices and changes in the business models and strategies of our customers. such shifts have altered the quantity, type and prices of products demanded by the end-consumer and our customers. for example, the size of new homes has decreased, and demand has increased for multi-family housing units such as apartments and condominiums, which are often smaller than single-family housing units. the effect of these trends has resulted in smaller kitchens and smaller and fewer bathrooms, each with fewer cabinets and faucets, as well as the use of less insulation. we have experienced a negative mix shift for certain products, with consumers demanding more value-priced products and fewer higher margin products. all of these shifts have negatively impacted our sales and profitability, and it is uncertain whether these shifts represent long-term changes in consumer preferences. consumers are increasingly using the internet and mobile technology to research home improvement products and enhance their purchasing and ownership experience for these products. e-commerce is a rapidly developing area, and development of a successful e-commerce strategy involves significant time and resources. if we are unable to successfully execute our e-commerce strategies, our brands may lose share. if we do not timely and effectively identify and respond to these changing consumer preferences and purchasing practices, our relationships with our customers could be harmed, the demand for our brands and products could be reduced and our results of operations could be negatively affected. our actions to improve our underperforming businesses have been costly and may not be effective. the downturn in home improvement and new home construction activity in the past four years has impacted our results, particularly in our cabinets and related products and our installation and other services segments and in our european cabinet businesses. further, the economic decline has also negatively affected certain businesses in our plumbing products segment. there is no assurance that our efforts to improve these underperforming businesses through initiatives to reduce costs and increase sales will be successful. our cost-saving initiatives, including rationalizing our businesses, closing plants, reducing headcount and implementing new systems, have been complex, time-consuming and expensive. the consolidation of our north american cabinet businesses, in particular, has involved the integration of multiple manufacturing processes and information technology platforms. if we cannot successfully implement these cost-saving initiatives, we may not fully achieve their anticipated benefits. our strategy to increase our sales in the cabinets and related products segment through brand building, new product introductions and product innovation requires time to develop, implement and assess. further, this segment faces significant pricing and promotional pressures. we have also taken several actions to improve the operations of our european cabinet businesses. if we cannot successfully implement these initiatives at all of our cabinet businesses, our results of operations may continue to be negatively impacted. 9 table of contents further, if the eventual economic recovery is fast-paced and robust, we may not be able to ramp up our reduced manufacturing and installation capacity in a timely fashion, and our ability to respond to increased demand could be limited, which could result in lost share and, ultimately, could negatively impact our operating results. we rely on key customers and may encounter conflicts within and between our distribution channels. the size and importance of individual customers to our businesses has increased as customers in our major distribution channels have consolidated or exited the business. in 2012, sales to our largest customer, the home depot, were $2.1 billion (approximately 28 percent of consolidated net sales). lowe is our second largest customer. in 2012, sales to lowe were less than ten percent of our consolidated net sales. these home center customers may reduce the number of vendors they purchase from and can make significant changes in their volume of purchases. additionally, home centers can significantly affect the prices we receive for our products and services, our cost of doing business with them, and the terms and conditions on which we do business. although homebuilders, dealers and other retailers represent other channels of distribution for our products and services, the loss of a substantial portion of our sales to the home depot or the loss of our sales to lowe would have a material adverse effect on our business. as some of our customers expand their markets and their targeted customers, conflicts between our existing distribution channels have and will continue to occur, which could impact our results of operations. in addition, we may undermine the business relationships we have with customers who purchase our products through traditional wholesale channels as we increase the amount of business we transact directly with our customers. in addition, our large retail customers are increasingly requesting product exclusivity, which may affect our ability to offer products to other customers and may diminish our ability to leverage economies of scale. we face significant competition. our products and services face significant competition, and this competition is further intensified during economic downturns. we believe that we compete on the basis of price, product and service quality, brand reputation, customer service and product features and innovation. some home centers are increasing their purchases of select products in our segments directly from low-cost foreign manufacturers for sale as private label and house brand merchandise. additionally, home centers, which have historically concentrated their sales efforts on retail consumers and remodelers, are increasingly marketing directly to professional contractors and installers, which may impact our margins on our products that contractors and installers would otherwise buy through our dealers and wholesalers. in our other distribution channels, we compete with foreign manufacturers in a variety of our product groups. these foreign manufacturers are putting downward pressures on price, particularly in the emerging markets we are entering. in our cabinets and related products segment, we have experienced significant competition in the form of promotional pricing, discounts, and new product offerings by our competitors, which have impacted our results of operations. in some of our segments, we are also experiencing a shift in the mix of products we sell toward more value-priced or opening price point products, which may impact our ability to maintain or gain share and our profitability. our ability to maintain our competitive position in our industries and to grow our businesses depends upon successfully maintaining our relationships with major customers, implementing growth strategies and entering new geographic areas, including successful international penetration, capitalizing on and strengthening our brands, managing our cost structure, accommodating shorter life-cycles for our products, and developing and innovating products, none of which is assured. 10 table of contents increased commodity costs and limited availability of commodities could affect our operating results. we buy various commodities to manufacture our products, including, among others, wood, brass (made of copper and zinc), titanium dioxide and resins. fluctuations in the availability and prices of these commodities could increase our costs to manufacture our products. further, increases in energy costs not only increase our production costs, but also the cost to transport our products, each of which could negatively affect our financial condition and operating results. it has been, and likely will continue to be, difficult for us to pass on to customers cost increases to cover our increased commodity and production costs. our existing arrangements with customers, competitive considerations and customer resistance to price increases may delay or make us unable to adjust selling prices. if we are not able to increase the prices of our products or achieve cost savings to offset increased commodity and production costs, our financial condition and operating results could be negatively impacted. if we are able to increase our selling prices, sustained price increases for our products may lead to sales declines and loss of share, particularly if our competitors do not increase their prices. when commodity prices decline, we may receive pressure from our customers to reduce prices for our products and services. to reduce the price volatility associated with certain anticipated commodity purchases, we use derivative instruments, including commodity futures and swaps. we may incur net substantial costs as part of our strategy to hedge against price volatility of certain commodities we purchase and we may make commitments to purchase these commodities at prices that subsequently exceed their market prices, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. we are dependent on third-party suppliers and manufacturers, and the loss of a key supplier or manufacturer could negatively affect our operating results. our ability to offer a wide variety of products depends on our ability to obtain an adequate supply of products and components from manufacturers and other suppliers. we rely heavily or, in certain cases, exclusively, on outside suppliers for some of our products and key components. failure by our suppliers to provide us quality products on commercially reasonable terms, or to comply with legal requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or operating results. resourcing these products and components to another supplier could take time and involve significant costs. accordingly, the loss of a key supplier, or a substantial decrease in the availability of products or components from our suppliers, could disrupt our business and adversely impact our operating results. further, we manufacture products in asia and source products and components from third parties in asia. the distances involved in these arrangements, together with differences in business practices, shipping and delivery requirements, the limited number of suppliers, and laws and regulations, have increased the difficulty of managing our supply chain, the complexity of our supply chain logistics and the potential for interruptions in our production scheduling. if we are unable to effectively manage our supply chain, our operating results could be negatively affected. international political, monetary, economic and social developments affect our business. over 20 percent of our sales are made outside of north america (principally in europe) and are transacted in currencies other than u.s. dollars (principally the euro and the british pound sterling). increased international sales make up an important part of our future strategic plans. in addition, we manufacture products in asia and source products and components from third parties in asia. our international business faces risks associated with changes in political, monetary, economic and social environments, labor conditions and practices, the laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments, cultural differences and differences in enforcement of contract and intellectual property rights. u.s. laws and regulations affecting activities of u.s. companies doing business abroad, 11 table of contents including tax laws, laws regulating various business practices, and trade regulations which may include duties and tariffs can also impact our international business. our international operating results may be influenced by economic conditions in europe, including uncertainty regarding the european sovereign debt crisis, and competitive pricing pressures on certain products. the financial reporting of our consolidated operating results is affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which may present challenges in comparing operating performance from period to period and in forecasting future performance. we have investments in financial assets, including assets that are not readily marketable and involve financial risk. we continue to reduce our investment in private equity funds. since there is no active trading market for investments in private equity funds, they are for the most part illiquid. these investments, by their nature, can also have a relatively higher degree of business risk, including financial leverage, than other financial investments. future changes in market conditions, the future performance of the underlying investments or new information provided by private equity fund managers could affect the recorded values of such investments or the amounts realized upon liquidation. claims and litigation could be costly. we are, from time to time, involved in various claims, litigation matters and regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of our business and which could have a material adverse effect on us. these matters may include contract disputes, automobile liability and other personal injury claims, warranty disputes, environmental claims or proceedings, other tort claims, employment and tax matters and other proceedings and litigation, including class actions. we are subject to product safety regulations, recalls and direct claims for product liability that can result in significant liability and, regardless of the ultimate outcome, can be costly to defend or manage. also, we increasingly rely on other manufacturers to provide us with products or components for products that we sell. due to the difficulty of controlling the quality of products or components sourced from other manufacturers, we are exposed to risks relating to the quality of such products and to limitations on our recourse against such suppliers. we have also experienced class action lawsuits in recent years predicated upon claims for antitrust violations, product liability and wage and hour issues. we have generally denied liability and have vigorously defended these cases. due to their scope and complexity, however, these lawsuits can be particularly costly to defend and resolve, and we have and may continue to incur significant costs as a result of these types of lawsuits. increasingly, our homebuilder customers are subject to construction defect and home warranty claims in the ordinary course of their business. our contractual arrangements with these customers may include our agreement to defend and indemnify them against various liabilities. these claims, often asserted several years after completion of construction, can result in complex lawsuits or claims against the homebuilders and many of their subcontractors, including us, and may require us to incur defense and indemnity costs even when our products or services are not the principal basis for the claims. although we intend to defend all claims and litigation matters vigorously, given the inherently unpredictable nature of claims and litigation, we cannot predict with certainty the outcome or effect of any claim or litigation matter. we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks of loss resulting from claims and litigation. we may elect not to obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. the levels of insurance we maintain may not be adequate to 12 table of contents fully cover any and all losses or liabilities. if any significant accident, judgment, claim or other event is not fully insured or indemnified against, it could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. see note t to the consolidated financial statements included in item 8 of this report for additional information about litigation involving our businesses. compliance with government regulation and industry standards could impact our capital expenditures and operating results. we are subject to u.s. and foreign government regulations, particularly those pertaining to health and safety (including protection of employees and consumers), climate disruption and environmental issues. in addition to complying with current requirements and requirements that will become effective at a future date, even more stringent requirements could be imposed on our industries in the future. additionally, some of our products must be certified by industry organizations. compliance with these regulations and industry standards may require us to alter our manufacturing and installation processes and our sourcing, which could adversely impact our competitive position. further, if we do not effectively and timely comply with such regulations and industry standards, our operating results could be negatively affected. the long-term performance of our businesses relies on our ability to attract, develop and retain talented personnel. to be successful, we must attract, develop and retain highly qualified and talented personnel who have the experience, knowledge and expertise to successfully implement our key business strategies, particularly our international business expansion and the development of e-commerce capabilities. we compete for employees with a broad range of employers in many different industries, including large multinational firms, and we invest significant resources in recruiting, developing, motivating and retaining them. the failure to attract, develop, motivate and retain key employees could negatively affect our competitive position and our operating results. further, as the housing market recovers, if we are unable to recruit, train and retain sufficient skilled labor, we may not be able to adequately satisfy increased demand for our products and services, which could impact our operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. we have considered the provisions of accounting guidance regarding disclosure of accounting policies for derivative financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments, and disclosure of quantitative and qualitative information about market risk inherent in derivative financial instruments, other financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments. we are exposed to the impact of changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity costs in the normal course of business and to market price fluctuations related to our financial investments. we have involvement with derivative financial instruments and use such instruments to the extent necessary to manage exposure to foreign currency fluctuations and commodity fluctuations. see note f to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our derivative instruments. at december 31, 2012, we performed sensitivity analyses to assess the potential loss in the fair values of market risk sensitive instruments resulting from a hypothetical change of 10 percent in foreign currency exchange rates, a 10 percent decline in the market value of our long-term investments, a 10 percent change in commodity costs, or a 10 percent change in interest rates. based upon the analyses performed, such changes would not be expected to materially affect our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 39 table of contents