risk factors 14 risk factors investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, including the section titled management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making a decision t o invest in our common stock. the risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only ones we face. if any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. in that event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. risks related to our business and our industry if we fail to grow our user base, or if user engagement or ad engagement on our platform decline, our revenue, business and operating results may be harmed. the size of our user base and our users' level of engagement are critical to our success. we had 240.9 million average maus in the three months ended december 31, 2013, which was a 30% increase from 184.9 million average maus in the three months ended december 31, 2012. our financial performance has been and will continue to be significantly determined by our success in growing the number of users and increasing their overall level of engagement on our platform as well as the number of ad engagements. we anticipate that our user growth rate will slow over time as the size of our user base increases. for example, in general, a higher proportion of internet users in the united states uses twitter than internet users in other countries and, in the future, we expect our user growth rate in certain international markets, such as argentina, france, japan, russia, saudi arabia and south africa, to continue to be higher than our user growth rate in the united states. to the extent our user growth rate slows, our success will become increasingly dependent on our ability to increase levels of user engagement and ad engagement on twitter. we generate a substantial majority of our revenue based upon engagement by our users with the ads that we display. if people do not perceive our products and services to be useful, reliable and trustworthy, we may not be able to attract users or increase the frequency of their engagement with our platform and the ads that we display. a number of consumer-oriented websites that achieved early popularity have since seen their user bases or levels of engagement decline, in some cases precipitously. there is no guarantee that we will not experience a similar erosion of our user base or engagement levels. a number of factors could potentially negatively affect user growth and engagement, including if: users engage with other products, services or activities as an alternative to ours; 14 influential users, such as world leaders, government officials, celebrities, athletes, journalists, sports teams, media outlets and brands or certain age demographics conclude that an alternative product or service is more relevant; we are unable to convince potential new users of the value and usefulness of our products and services; there is a decrease in the perceived quality of the content generated by our users; we fail to introduce new and improved products or services or if we introduce new or improved products or services that are not favorably received or that negatively affect user engagement; technical or other problems prevent us from delivering our products or services in a rapid and reliable manner or otherwise affect the user experience; we are unable to present users with content that is interesting, useful and relevant to them; users believe that their experience is diminished as a result of the decisions we make with respect to the frequency, relevance and prominence of ads that we display; there are user concerns related to privacy and communication, safety, security or other factors; we are unable to combat spam or other hostile or inappropriate usage on our platform; there are adverse changes in our products or services that are mandated by, or that we elect to make to address, legislation, regulatory authorities or litigation, including settlements or consent decrees; we fail to provide adequate customer service to users; or we do not maintain our brand image or our reputation is damaged. if we are unable to increase our user growth or engagement, or if they decline, this could result in our products and services being less attractive to potential new users, as well as advertisers, which would have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. if our users do not continue to contribute content or their contributions are not valuable to other users, we may experience a decline in the number of users accessing our products and services and user engagement, which could result in the loss of advertisers and revenue. our success depends on our ability to provide users of our products and services with valuable content, which in turn depends on the content contributed by our users. we believe that one of our competitive advantages is the quality, quantity and real-time nature of the content on twitter, and that access to unique or real-time content is one of the main reasons users visit twitter. our ability to expand into new international ma rkets depends on the availability of relevant local content in those markets. we seek to foster a broad and engaged user community, and we encourage world leaders, government officials, celebrities, athletes, journalists, sports teams, media outlets and brands to use our products and services to express their views to broad audiences. we also encourage media outlets to use our products and services to distribute their content. if users, including influential users, do not continue to contribute content to twitter, and we are unable to provide users with valuable and timely content, our user base and user engagement may decline. additionally, if we are not able to address user concerns regarding the safety and security of our products and services or if we are unable to successfully prevent abusive or other hostile behavior on our platform, the size of our user base and user engagement may decline. we rely on the sale of advertising services for the substantial majority of our revenue. if we experience a decline in the number of users or a decline in user engagement, including as a result of the loss of world leaders, government officials, celebrities, athletes, journalists, sports teams, media outlets and brands who generate content on twitter, advertisers may not view our products and services as attractive for their marketing expenditures, and may reduce their spending with us which would harm our business and operating results. 15 we generate the substantial majority of our revenue from advertising. the loss of advertising revenue could harm our business. the substantial majority of our revenue is currently generated from third parties advertising on twitter. we generated 85% and 89% of our revenue from advertising in the fiscal year ended december 31, 2012 and the fiscal year ended december 31, 2013, respectively. we generate substantially all of our advertising revenue through the sale of our three promoted products: promoted tweets, promoted accounts and promoted trends. as is common in the industry, our advertisers do not have long-term advertising commitments with us. in addition, many of our advertisers purchase our advertising services through one of several large advertising agency holding companies. advertising agencies and potential new advertisers may view our promoted products as experimental and unproven, and we may need to devote additional time and resources to educate them about our products and services. advertisers also may choose to reach users through our free products and services, instead of our promoted products. advertisers will not continue to do business with us, or they will reduce the prices they are willing to pay to advertise with us, if we do not deliver ads in an effective manner, or if they do not believe that their investment in advertising with us will generate a competitive return relative to alternatives, including online, mobile and traditional advertising platforms. our advertising revenue could be adversely affected by a number of other factors, including: decreases in user engagement with twitter and with the ads on our platform; if we are unable to demonstrate the value of our promoted products to advertisers and advertising agencies or if we are unable to measure the value of our promoted products in a manner which advertisers and advertising agencies find useful; if our promoted products are not cost effective or valuable for certain types of advertisers or if we are unable to develop cost effective or valuable advertising services for different types of advertisers; if we are unable to convince advertisers and brands to invest resources in learning to use our products and services and maintaining a brand presence on twitter; product or service changes we may make that change the frequency or relative prominence of ads displayed on twitter or that detrimentally impact revenue in the near term with the goal of achieving long term benefits; our inability to increase advertiser demand and inventory; our inability to increase the relevance of ads shown to users; our inability to help advertisers effectively target ads, including as a result of the fact that we do not collect extensive personal information from our users and that we do not have real-time geographic information for all of our users; continuing decreases in the cost per ad engagement; loss of advertising market share to our competitors; the degree to which users access twitter content through applications that do not contain our ads; any arrangements or other partnerships with third parties to share our revenue; our new advertising strategies, such as television targeting and real-time video clips embedded in tweets, do not gain traction; the impact of new technologies that could block or obscure the display of our ads; adverse legal developments relating to advertising or measurement tools related to the effectiveness of advertising, including legislative and regulatory developments, and developments in litigation; adverse media reports or other negative publicity involving us or other companies in our industry; our inability to create new products and services that sustain or increase the value of our advertising services to both our advertisers and our users; the impact of fraudulent clicks or spam on our promoted products and our users; changes in the way our advertising is priced; and the impact of macroeconomic conditions and conditions in the advertising industry in general. the occurrence of any of these or other factors could result in a reduction in demand for our ads, which may reduce the prices we receive for our ads, either of which would negatively affect our revenue and operating results. 16 if we are unable to compete effectively for users and advertiser spend, our business and operating results could be harmed. competition for users of our products and services is intense. although we have developed a new global platform for public self-expression and conversation in real time, we face strong competition in our business. we compete against many companies to attract and engage users, including companies which have greater financial resources and substantially larger user bases, such as facebook (including instagram), google, linkedin, microsoft and yahoo!, which offer a variety of internet and mobile device-based p roducts, services and content. for example, facebook operates a social networking site with significantly more users than twitter and has been introducing features similar to those of twitter. in addition, google may use its strong position in one or more markets to gain a competitive advantage over us in areas in which we operate, including by integrating competing features into products or services they control. as a result, our competitors may draw users towards their products or services and away from ours. this could decrease the growth or engagement of our user base, which, in turn, would negatively affect our business. we also compete against smaller companies, such as sina weibo, line and kakao, each of which is based in asia. we believe that our ability to compete effectively for users depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: the popularity, usefulness, ease of use, performance and reliability of our products and services compared to those of our competitors; the amount, quality and timeliness of content generated by our users; the timing and market acceptance of our products and services; the continued adoption of our products and services internationally; our ability, and the ability of our competitors, to develop new products and services and enhancements to existing products and services; the frequency and relative prominence of the ads displayed by us or our competitors; our ability to establish and maintain relationships with platform partners that integrate with our platform; changes mandated by, or that we elect to make to address, legislation, regulatory authorities or litigation, including settlements and consent decrees, some of which may have a disproportionate effect on us; the application of antitrust laws both in the united states and internationally; government action regulating competition; our ability to attract, retain and motivate talented employees, particularly engineers, designers and product managers; acquisitions or consolidation within our industry, which may result in more formidable competitors; and our reputation and the brand strength relative to our competitors. we also face significant competition for advertiser spend. the substantial majority of our revenue is currently generated through ads on twitter, and we compete against online and mobile businesses, including those referenced above, and traditional media outlets, such as television, radio and print, for advertising budgets. in order to g row our revenue and improve our operating results, we must increase our share of spending on advertising relative to our competitors, many of which are larger companies that offer more traditional and widely accepted advertising products. in addition, some of our larger competitors have substantially broader product or service offerings and leverage their relationships based on other products or services to gain additional share of advertising budgets. we believe that our ability to compete effectively for advertiser spend depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: the size and composition of our user base relative to those of our competitors; our ad targeting capabilities, and those of our competitors; the timing and market acceptance of our advertising services, and those of our competitors; our marketing and selling efforts, and those of our competitors; the pricing for our promoted products relative to the advertising products and services of our competitors; 17 the return our advertisers receive from our advertising services, and those of our competitors; and our reputation and the strength of our brand relative to our competitors. in recent years, there have been significant acquisitions and consolidation by and among our actual and potential competitors. we anticipate this trend of consolidation will continue, which will present heightened competitive challenges for our business. acquisitions by our competitors may result in reduced functionality o f our products and services. for example, following facebook's acquisition of instagram, facebook disabled instagram's photo integration with twitter such that instagram photos are no longer viewable within tweets and users are now re-directed to instagram to view instagram photos through a link within a tweet. as a result, our users may be less likely to click on links to instagram photos in tweets, and instagram users may be less likely to tweet or remain active users of twitter. any similar elimination of integration with twitter in the future, whether by facebook or others, may adversely impact our business and operating results. consolidation may also enable our larger competitors to offer bundled or integrated products that feature alternatives to our platform. reduced functionality of our products and services, or our competitors' ability to offer bundled or integrated products that compete directly with us, may cause our user growth, user engagement and ad engagement to decline and advertisers to red uce their spend with us. if we are not able to compete effectively for users and advertiser spend our business and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which makes them difficult to predict. our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and will fluctuate in the future. as a result, our past quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicators of future performance. our operating results in any given quarter can be influenced by numerous factors, many of which we are unable to predict or are outside of our control, including: our ability to grow our user base and user engagement; our ability to attract and retain advertisers; the occurrence of planned significant events, such as the super bowl, or unplanned significant events, such as natural disasters and political revolutions; fluctuations in spending by our advertisers, including as a result of seasonality and extraordinary news events, or other factors; the number of ad engagements by users; the pricing of our ads and other products and services; the development and introduction of new products or services or changes in features of existing products or services; the impact of competitors or competitive products and services; our ability to maintain or increase revenue; our ability to maintain or improve gross margins and operating margins; increases in research and development, marketing and sales and other operating expenses that we may incur to grow and expand our operations and to remain competitive; stock-based compensation expense; costs related to the acquisition of businesses, talent, technologies or intellectual property, including potentially significant amortization costs; system failures resulting in the inaccessibility of our products and services; breaches of security or privacy, and the costs associated with remediating any such breaches; adverse litigation judgments, settlements or other litigation-related costs, and the fees associated with investigating and defending claims; changes in the legislative or regulatory environment, including with respect to security, privacy or enforcement by government regulators, including fines, orders or consent decrees; 18 fluctuations in currency exchange rates and changes in the proportion of our revenue and expenses denominated in foreign currencies; changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles; and changes in global business or macroeconomic conditions. given our limited operating history and the rapidly evolving markets in which we compete, our historical operating results may not be useful to you in predicting our future operating results. we believe our rapid growth may understate the potential seasonality of our business. as our revenue growth rate slows, we expect that the seasonality in our business may become more pronounced and may in the future cause our operating results to fluctuate. for example, advertising spending is traditionall y seasonally strong in the fourth quarter of each year and we believe that this seasonality affects our quarterly results, which generally reflect higher sequential advertising revenue growth from the third to fourth quarter compared to sequential advertising revenue growth from the fourth quarter to the subsequent first quarter. in addition, global economic concerns continue to create uncertainty and unpredictability and add risk to our future outlook. an economic downturn in any particular region in which we do business or globally could result in reductions in advertising revenue, as our advertisers reduce their advertising budgets, and other adverse effects that could harm our operating results. user growth and engagement depend upon effective interoperation with operating systems, networks, devices, web browsers and standards that we do not control. we make our products and services available across a variety of operating systems and through websites. we are dependent on the interoperability of our products and services with popular devices, desktop and mobile operating systems and web browsers that we do not control, such as mac os, windows, android, ios, chrome and firefox. any changes in , or restrictions imposed by, such systems, devices or web browsers that impair the functionality of our current or proposed products and services or give preferential treatment to competitive products or services could adversely affect usage of our products and services. further, if the number of platforms for which we develop our product expands, it will result in an increase in our operating expenses. in order to deliver high quality products and services, it is important that our products and services work well with a range of operating systems, networks, devices, web browsers and standards that we do not control. in addition, because a majority of our users access our products and services through mobile devices, we are particularly dependent on the interoperability of our products and services with mobile devices and operating systems. we may not be successful in developing relationships with key participants in the mobile industry or in developing products or services that operate effectively with these operating systems, networks, devices, web browsers and standards. in the event that it is difficult for our users to access and use our products and services, particularly on their mobile devices, our user growth and engagement could be harmed, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. if we fail to expand effectively in international markets, our revenue and our business will be harmed. we may not be able to monetize our products and services internationally as effectively as in the united states as a result of competition, advertiser demand, differences in the digital advertising market and digital advertising conventions, as well as differences in the way that users in different countries access or utilize our products and services. differences in the competitive landscape in international markets may impact our ability to monetize our products and services. for example, in south korea w e face intense competition from a messaging service offered by kakao, which offers some of the same communication features as twitter. the existence of a well-established competitor in an international market may adversely affect our ability to increase our user base, attract advertisers and monetize our products in such market. we may also experience differences in advertiser demand in international markets. for example, during times of political upheaval, advertisers may choose not to advertise on twitter. certain international markets are also not as familiar with digital advertising in general, or in new forms of digital advertising such as our promoted products. further, we face challenges in providing certain advertising products, features or analytics in certain international markets, such as the european union, due to government regulation. our products and services may also be used differently abroad than in the united states. in particular, in certain international markets where internet access is not as rapid or reliable as in the united states, users tend not to take advantage of certain features of our products and services, such as rich media included in tweets. additionally, in certain emerging markets, such as india, many users access our products and services through feature phones with limited functionality, rather than through smartphones, our website or desktop applications. this limits our ability to deliver certain features to those users and may limit the ability of advertisers to deliver compelling advertisements to users in these markets which may result in reduced ad engagements which would adversely affect our business and operating results. 19 if our revenue from our international operations, and particularly from operations in the countries and regions on which we have focused our spending, does not exceed the expense of establishing and maintaining these operations, our business and operating results will suffer. in addition, our user base may expand more rapidly in international regio ns where we are less successful in monetizing our products and services. as our user base continues to expand internationally, we will need to increase revenue from the activity generated by our international users in order to grow our business. for example, users outside the united states constituted 78% of our average maus in the three months ended december 31, 2013, but our international revenue, as determined based on the billing location of our advertisers, was only 27% of our consolidated revenue in the three months ended december 31, 2013. our inability to successfully expand internationally could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. we have a limited operating history in a new and unproven market for our platform, which makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and may increase the risk that we will not be successful. we have developed a global platform for public self-expression and conversation in real time, and the market for our products and services is relatively new and may not develop as expected, if at all. people who are not our users may not understand the value of our products and services and new users may initially find our product confusing. there may be a perception that our products and ervices are only useful to users who tweet, or to influential users with large audiences. convincing potential new users of the value of our products and services is critical to increasing our user base and to the success of our business. we have a limited operating history, as we only began to generate revenue in 2009 and we started to sell our promoted products in 2010, which makes it difficult to effectively assess our future prospects or forecast our future results. you should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and challenges we encounter or may encounter in this developing and rapidly evolving market. these risks and challenges include our ability to, among other things: increase our number of users and user engagement; successfully expand our business, especially internationally; develop a reliable, scalable, secure, high-performance technology infrastructure that can efficiently handle increased usage globally; convince advertisers of the benefits of our promoted products compared to alternative forms of advertising; develop and deploy new features, products and services; successfully compete with other companies, some of which have substantially greater resources and market power than us, that are currently in, or may in the future enter, our industry, or duplicate the features of our products and services; attract, retain and motivate talented employees, particularly engineers, designers and product managers; process, store, protect and use personal data in compliance with governmental regulations, contractual obligations and other obligations related to privacy and security; continue to earn and preserve our users' trust, including with respect to their private personal information; and defend ourselves against litigation, regulatory, intellectual property, privacy or other claims. if we fail to educate potential users and potential advertisers about the value of our products and services, if the market for our platform does not develop as we expect or if we fail to address the needs of this market, our business will be harmed. we may not be able to successfully address these risks and challenges or others. failure to adequately address these risks and challenges could harm our business and cause our operating results t o suffer. 20 we have incurred significant operating losses in the past, and we may not be able to achieve or subsequently maintain profitability. since our inception, we have incurred significant operating losses, and, as of december 31 , 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of $994.6 million. although our revenue has grown rapidly, increasing from $28.3 million in 2010 to $664.9 million in 2013, we expect that our revenue growth rate will slow in the future as a result of a variety of factors, including the gradual slow down in the growth rate of our user base. we believe that our future revenue growth will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract new users, increase user engagement and ad engagement, increase our brand awareness, compete effectively, maximize our sales efforts, demonstrate a positive return on investment for advertisers, successfully develop new products and services and expand internationally. accordingly, you should not rely on the revenue growth of any prior quarterly or annual period as an indication of our future performance. we also expect our costs to increase in future periods as we continue to expend substantial financial resources on: our technology infrastructure; research and development for our products and services; sales and marketing; domestic and international expansion efforts; attracting and retaining talented employees; strategic opportunities, including commercial relationships and acquisitions; and general administration, including personnel costs and legal and accounting expenses related to being a public company. these investments may not result in increased revenue or growth in our business. in addition, we have granted stock options and rsus to our employees. rsus granted to domestic employees before february 2013 and all rsus granted to international employees, or the pre-2013 rsus, vest upon the satisfaction of both a service condition and a performance condition. the service condition for a majority of the pre-2013 rsus is satisfied over a period of four years. the performance condition was satisfied in february 2014 pursuant to the terms of the pre-2013 rsus. prior to the closing of our initial public offering in november 2013, we had not recognized any stock-based compensation expense for the pre-2013 rsus because the performance condition had not been satisfied. upon completion of our initial public offering, we began recording the stock-based compensation expense related to pre-2013 rsus, because the satisfaction of the performance condition became probable. during the year ended december 31, 2013, we recorded $433.5 million of cumulative stock-based compensation expense related to the pre-2013 rsus. this amount is comprised of $405.9 million of expense accumulated until the effective date of our initial public offering for awards vested and $27.6 million of subsequent recognition of expense during the year as additional pre-2013 rsus continue to vest. we have an additional $158.6 million of unrecognized stock-based compensation expense related to the pre-2013 rsus, net of estimated forfeitures, that will be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately three years. we have elected to allow our employees who are not executive officers to sell a limited number of shares of our common stock received upon the vesting and settlement of the pre-2013 rsus in february 2014 in the public market in order to satisfy their potential income tax obligations related to the vesting and settlement of such awards. in addition, we undertook a net settlement of vested pre-2013 rsus held by our executive officers upon satisfaction of the performance condition for the pre-2013 rsus in february 2014 and withheld shares and remitted income tax on behalf of the applicable executive officers in cash at the applicable minimum statutory rates. in addition to stock-based compensation expense associated with the pre-2013 rsus, as of december 31 , 2013, we had unrecognized stock-based compensation expense of approximately $998.9 million related to other outstanding equity awards, after giving effect to estimated forfeitures, which we expect to recognize over a weighted-average period of approximately three years. further, we made grants of equity awards after december 31, 2013, and we have unrecognized stock-based compensation expense of $44.5 million related to such equity awards, after giving effect to estimated forfeitures, which we expect to recognize over a weighted-average period of approximately four years. the stock-based compensation expense related to pre-2013 rsus and other outstanding equity awards will have a significant negative impact on our ability to achieve profitability on a gaap basis in 2014. if we are unable to generate adequate revenue growth and to manage our expenses, we may continue to incur significant losses in the future and may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. 21 our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to our products and services on the internet by our users and advertisers. if we or our users experience disruptions in internet service or if internet service providers are able to block, degrade or charge for access to our products and services, we could incur additional expenses and the loss of users and advertisers. we depend on the ability of our users and advertisers to access the internet. currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant market power in the broadband and internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies, government-owned service providers, device manufacturers and operating system providers, any of whom could take actions that degrade, di srupt or increase the cost of user access to our products or services, which would, in turn, negatively impact our business. for example, access to twitter is blocked in china. the adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the internet, including laws or practices limiting internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for, or the usage of, our products and services, increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our operating results. we also rely on other companies to maintain reliable network systems that provide adequate speed, data capacity and security to us and our users. as the internet continues to experience growth in the number of users, frequency of use and amount of data transmitted, the internet infrastructure that we and our users rely on may be unable to support the demands placed upon it. the failure of the internet infrastructure that we or our users rely on, even for a short period of time, could undermine our operations and harm our operating results. our new products, services and initiatives and changes to existing products, services and initiatives could fail to attract users and advertisers or generate revenue. our ability to increase the size and engagement of our user base, attract advertisers and generate revenue will depend in part on our ability to create successful new products and services, both independently and in conjunction with third parties. we may introduce significant changes to our existing products and services or develop and introduce new and unproven products and services, including technologies with which we have little or no prior development or operating experience. for example, in 2013, we i ntroduced vine, a mobile application that enables users to create and distribute videos that are up to six seconds in length, and #music, a mobile application that helps users discover new music and artists based on twitter data. if new or enhanced products or services fail to engage users and advertisers, we may fail to attract or retain users or to generate sufficient revenue or operating profit to justify our investments, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. in addition, we have launched and expect to continue to launch strategic initiatives, such as the nielsen twitter tv rating, that do not directly generate revenue but which we believe will enhance our attractiveness to users and advertisers. in the future, we may invest in new products, services and initiatives to generate revenue, but there is no guarantee these approaches will be successful. we may not be successful in future efforts to generate revenue from our new products or services. if our strategic initiatives do not enhance our ability to monetize our existing products and services or enable us to develop new approaches to monetization, we may not be able to maintain or grow our revenue or recover any associated development costs and our operating results could be adversely affected. spam could diminish the user experience on our platform, which could damage our reputation and deter our current and potential users from using our products and services. spam on twitter refers to a range of abusive activities that are prohibited by our terms of service and is generally defined as unsolicited, repeated actions that negatively impact other users with the general goal of drawing user attention to a given account, site, product or idea. this includes posting large numb ers of unsolicited mentions of a user, duplicate tweets, misleading links (e.g., to malware or click-jacking pages) or other false or misleading content, and aggressively following and un-following accounts, adding users to lists, sending invitations, retweeting and favoriting tweets to inappropriately attract attention. our terms of service also prohibit the creation of serial or bulk accounts, both manually or using automation, for disruptive or abusive purposes, such as to tweet spam or to artificially inflate the popularity of users seeking to promote themselves on twitter. although we continue to invest resources to reduce spam on twitter, we expect spammers will continue to seek ways to act inappropriately on our platform. in addition, we expect that increases in the number of users on our platform will result in increased efforts by spammers to misuse our platform. we continuously combat spam, including by suspending or terminating accounts we believe to be spammers and launching algorithmic changes focused on curbing abusive activities. our actions to combat spam require the diversion of significant time and focus of our engineering team from improving our products and services. if spam increases on twitter, this could hurt our reputation for delivering relevant content or reduce user growth and user engagement and result in continuing operational cost to us. 22 if we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business and operating results could be harmed. we continue to experience rapid growth in our headcount and operations, which will continue to place significant demands on our management, operational and financial infrastructure. as of december 31 , 2013, we had approximately 2,700 full-time employees, an increase of approximately 2,600 full-time employees since january 1, 2010. we intend to continue to make substantial investments to expand our operations, research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative organizations, as well as our international operations. we face significant competition for employees, particularly engineers, designers and product managers, from other internet and high-growth companies, which include both publicly-traded and privately-held companies, and we may not be able to hire new employees quickly enough to meet our needs. to attract highly skilled personnel, we have had to offer, and believe we will need to continue to offer, highly competitive compensation packages. in addition, as we have grown, we have significantly expanded our operating lease commitments. as we continue to grow, we are subject to the risks of over-hiring, over-compensating our employees and over-expanding our operating infrastructure, and to the challenges of integrating, developing and motivating a rapidly growing employee base in various countries around the world. in addition, we may not be able to innovate or execute as quickly as a smaller, more efficient organization. if we fail to effectively manage our hiring needs and successfully integrate our new hires, our efficiency and ability to meet our forecasts and our employee morale, productivity and retention could suffer, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. providing our products and services to our users is costly and we expect our expenses to continue to increase in the future as we broaden our user base and increase user engagement, as users increase the amount of content they contribute, and as we develop and implement new features, products an d services that require more infrastructure, such as our mobile video product, vine. in addition, our operating expenses, such as our research and development expenses and sales and marketing expenses, have grown rapidly as we have expanded our business. historically, our costs have increased each year due to these factors and we expect to continue to incur increasing costs to support our anticipated future growth. we expect to continue to invest in our infrastructure in order to enable us to provide our products and services rapidly and reliably to users around the world, including in countries where we do not expect significant near-term monetization. continued growth could also strain our ability to maintain reliable service levels for our users and advertisers, develop and improve our operational, financial, legal and management controls, and enhance our reporting systems and procedures. as a newly-public company we expect to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. our expenses may grow faster than our revenue, and our expenses may be greater than we anticipate. managing our growth will require significant expenditures and allocation of valuable management resources. if we fail to achieve the necessary level of efficiency in our organization as it grows, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. our business and operating results may be harmed by a disruption in our service, or by our failure to timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology and infrastructure. one of the reasons people come to twitter is for real-time information. we have experienced, and may in the future experience, service disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, hardware failure, capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of people accessing our products and services simultaneously, computer viruses and denial of service or f raud or security attacks. although we are investing significantly to improve the capacity, capability and reliability of our infrastructure, we are not currently serving traffic equally through our co-located data centers that support our platform. accordingly, in the event of a significant issue at the data center supporting most of our network traffic, some of our products and services may become inaccessible to the public or the public may experience difficulties accessing our products and services. for example, in july 2012, due to the failure of two parallel systems at nearly the same time in one of our data centers, twitter became inaccessible for approximately two hours. any disruption or failure in our infrastructure could hinder our ability to handle existing or increased traffic on our platform, which could significantly harm our business. 23 as the number of our users increases and our users generate more content, including photos and videos hosted by twitter, we may be required to expand and adapt our technology and infrastructure to continue to reliably store, serve and analyze this content. it may become increasingly difficult to maintain and improve the performance of our products and services, especially during peak usage times, as our products a nd services become more complex and our user traffic increases. in addition, because we lease our data center facilities, we cannot be assured that we will be able to expand our data center infrastructure to meet user demand in a timely manner, or on favorable economic terms. if our users are unable to access twitter or we are not able to make information available rapidly on twitter, users may seek other channels to obtain the information, and may not return to twitter or use twitter as often in the future, or at all. this would negatively impact our ability to attract users and advertisers and increase engagement of our users. we expect to continue to make significant investments to maintain and improve the capacity, capability and reliability of our infrastructure. to the extent that we do not effectively address capacity constraints, upgrade our systems as needed and continually develop our technology and infrastructure to accommodate actual and anticipated changes in technology, our business and operating results may be harmed. action by governments to restrict access to our products and services or censor twitter content could harm our business and operating results. governments have sought, and may in the future seek, to censor content available through our products and services, restrict access to our products and services from their country entirely or impose other restrictions that may affect the accessibility of our products and services for an extended period of time or indefinitely. for example, domestic internet service providers in china have blocked access to twitter, and other countries, including iran, libya, pakistan and syria, have intermittently restricted access to twitter, and we believe that access to twitter has been blocked in these countries primarily for political reasons. in addition, governments in other countries may seek to restrict access to our products and services if they consider us to be in violation of their laws. in the event that access to our products and services is restricted, in whole or in part, in one or more countries or our competitors are able to successfully penetrate geographic markets that we cannot access, our ability to retain or increase our user base and user engagement may be adversely affected, and our operating results may be harmed. if we are unable to maintain and promote our brand, our business and operating results may be harmed. we believe that maintaining and promoting our brand is critical to expanding our base of users and advertisers. maintaining and promoting our brand will depend largely on our ability to continue to provide useful, reliable and innovative products and services, which we may not do successfully. we may introduce new features, products, services or terms of service that users, platform partners or advertisers do not like, which may negatively affect our brand. additionally, the actions of platform partners may affect our brand if users do not have a positive experience using third-party applications or websites integrated with twitter or that make use of twitter content. our brand may also be negatively affected by the actions of users that are hostile or inappropriate to other people, by users impersonating other people, by users identified as spam, by users introducing excessive amounts of spam on our platform or by third parties obtaining control over users' accounts. for example, in april 2013, attackers obtained the credentials to the twitter account of the associated press news service through a phishing attack targeting associated press employees. the attackers posted an erroneous tweet from the associated press account reporting that there had been explosions at the white house, triggering a stock market decline, and focusing media attention on our brand and security efforts. maintaining and enhancing our brand may require us to make substantial investments and these investments may not achieve the desired goals. if we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. negative publicity could adversely affect our business and operating results. we receive a high degree of media coverage around the world. negative publicity about our company, including about our product quality and reliability, changes to our products and services, privacy and security practices, litigation, regulatory activity, the actions of our users or user experience with our products and services, even if inaccurate, could adversely aff ect our reputation and the confidence in and the use of our products and services. for example, service outages on twitter typically result in widespread media reports. such negative publicity could also have an adverse effect on the size, engagement and loyalty of our user base and result in decreased revenue, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. 24 our future performance depends in part on support from platform partners and data partners. we believe user engagement with our products and services depends in part on the availability of applications and content generated by platform partners. beginning in 2012, we launched twitter cards, which allow platform partners to ensure that whenever they or any user tweets from their websites or applications, the tweet will automatically include rich content like a photo, a video, a sound clip, an article summary or information about a product, and make it instantly accessible to any other user on twitt er. twitter cards allow platform partners to create lightweight interactive applications to promote their content or their products. the availability and development of these applications and content depends on platform partners' perceptions and analysis of the relative benefits of developing applications and content for our products and services. if platform partners focus their efforts on other platforms, the availability and quality of applications and content for our products and services may suffer. there is no assurance that platform partners will continue to develop and maintain applications and content for our products and services. if platform partners cease to develop and maintain applications and content for our products and services, user engagement may decline. in addition, we generate revenue from licensing our historical and real-time data to third parties. if any of these relationships are terminated or not renewed, or if we are unable to enter into similar relationships in the future, our operating results could be adversely affected. we focus on product innovation and user experience rather than short-term operating results. we encourage employees to quickly develop and help us launch new and innovative features. we focus on improving the user experience for our products and services , which includes protecting user privacy, and on developing new and improved products and services for the advertisers on our platform. we prioritize innovation and the experience for users and advertisers on our platform over short-term operating results. we frequently make product and service decisions that may reduce our short-term operating results if we believe that the decisions are consistent with our goals to improve the user experience and performance for advertisers, which we believe will improve our operating results over the long term. these decisions may not be consistent with the short-term expectations of investors and may not produce the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case our user growth and user engagement, our relationships with advertisers and our business and operating results could be harmed. in addition, our focus on the user experience may negatively impact our relationships with our existing or prospective advertisers. this could result in a loss of advertisers, which could harm our revenue and operating results. our international operations are subject to increased challenges and risks. we have offices around the world and our products and services are available in multiple languages. we expect to continue to expand our international operations in the future by opening offices in new jurisdictions and expanding our offerings in new languages. however, we have limited operating history outside the united states, and our ability to manage our business and conduct our operations internationally requires considerable management attention and resources and is subject to the particular challenges of supporting a rapidly growing business in an environment of multiple languages, cultures, customs, legal and regulatory systems, alternative dispute systems and commercial markets. international expansion has required and will continue to require us to invest significant funds and other resources. operating internationally subjects us to new risks and may increase risks that we currently face, including risks associated with: recruiting and retaining talented and capable employees in foreign countries and maintaining our company culture across all of our offices; providing our products and services and operating across a significant distance, in different languages and among different cultures, including the potential need to modify our products, services, content and features to ensure that they are culturally relevant in different countries; increased competition from local websites, mobile applications and services that provide real-time communications, such as sina weibo in china, line in japan and kakao in south korea, which have expanded and may continue to expand their geographic footprint; differing and potentially lower levels of user growth, user engagement and ad engagement in new and emerging geographies; different levels of advertiser demand; greater difficulty in monetizing our products and services; compliance with applicable foreign laws and regulations, including laws and regulations with respect to privacy, consumer protection, spam and content, and the risk of penalties to our users and individual members of management if our practices are deemed to be out of compliance; longer payment cycles in some countries; 25 credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; operating in jurisdictions that do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the united states; compliance with anti-bribery laws including, without limitation, compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, including by our business partners; currency exchange rate fluctuations; foreign exchange controls that might require significant lead time in setting up operations in certain geographic territories and might prevent us from repatriating cash earned outside the united states; political and economic instability in some countries; double taxation of our international earnings and potentially adverse tax consequences due to changes in the tax laws of the united states or the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate; and higher costs of doing business internationally, including increased accounting, travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs. if we are unable to manage the complexity of our global operations successfully, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. our products and services may contain undetected software errors, which could harm our business and operating results. our products and services incorporate complex software and we encourage employees to quickly develop and help us launch new and innovative features. our software has contained, and may now or in the future contain, errors, bugs or vulnerabilities. for example, we experienced a service outage in june 2012 during which twitter service was inaccessible for approximately two hours as a result of a cascading soft ware bug in one of our infrastructure components. some errors in our software code may only be discovered after the product or service has been released. any errors, bugs or vulnerabilities discovered in our code after release could result in damage to our reputation, loss of users, loss of platform partners, loss of advertisers or advertising revenue or liability for damages, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. 26 our business is subject to complex and evolving u.s. and foreign laws and regulations. these laws and regulations are subject to change and uncertain interpretation, and could result in claims, changes to our business practices, monetary penalties, increased cost of operations or declines in user growth, user engagement or ad engagement, or otherwise harm our business. we are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the united states and abroad that involve matters central to our business, including privacy, rights of publicity, data protection, content regulation, intellectual property, competition, protection of minors, consumer protection and taxation. many of these laws and regulations are still evolving and being tested in courts and could be interpreted or applied in ways that could harm our business, particularly in the new and rapidly evolving industry in which we operate. the introduction of new products or services may subject us to additional laws and regulations. in addition, foreign data protection, privacy, consumer protection, content regulation and other laws and regulations are often more restrictive than those in the united states. in particular, the european union and its member states traditionally have taken broader views as to types of data that are subject to privacy and data protection, and have imposed greater legal obligations on companies in this regard. a number of proposals are pending before federal, state and foreign legislative and regulatory bodies that could significantly affect our business. for example, regulation relating to the 1995 european union data protection directive is currently being considered by european legislative bodies that may include more stringent operational requirements for entities processing personal information and significant penalties for non-compliance. additionally, a european parliament inquiry has recently indicated that it will recommend suspension of the eu u.s. safe harbor framework as part of this regulation. we rely upon the eu u.s. safe harbor framework to transfer certain personal information of european union residents to the united states, and revocation of the safe harbor framework could require us to create duplicative, and potentially expensive, information technology infrastructure and business operations in europe or limit our ability to collect and use personal information collected in europe. any of these could disrupt our business. similarly, there have been a number of recent legislative proposals in the united states, at both the federal and state level, that would impose new obligations in areas such as privacy and liability for copyright infringement by third parties. the u.s. government, including the ftc and the department of commerce, has announced that it is reviewing the need for greater regulation for the collection of information concerning user behavior on the internet, including regulation aimed at restricting certain online tracking and targeted advertising practices. additionally, recent amendments to u.s. patent laws may affect the ability of companies, including us, to protect their innovations and defend against claims of patent infringement. we currently allow use of our platform without the collection of extensive personal information, such as age. we may experience additional pressure to expand our collection of personal information in order to comply with new and additional regulatory demands or we may independently decide to do so. having additional personal information may subject us to additional regulation. further, it is difficult to predict how existing laws and regulations will be applied to our business and the new laws and regulations to which we may become subject, and it is possible that they may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our practices. these existing and proposed laws and regulations can be costly to comply with and can delay or impede the development of new products and services, result in negative publicity, significantly increase our operating costs, require significant time and attention of management and technical personnel and subject us to inquiries or investigations, claims or other remedies, including fines or demands that we modify or cease existing business practices. regulatory investigations and settlements could cause us to incur additional expenses or change our business practices in a manner materially adverse to our business. we have been subject to regulatory investigations in the past, and expect to continue to be subject to regulatory scrutiny as our business grows and awareness of our brand increases. in march 2011, to resolve an investigation into various incidents, we entered into a settlement agreement with the ftc that, among other things, requires us to establish an information security program designed to protect non-public consumer infor mation and also requires that we obtain biennial independent security assessments. the obligations under the settlement agreement remain in effect until the later of march 2, 2031, or the date 20 years after the date, if any, on which the u.s. government or the ftc files a complaint in federal court alleging any violation of the order. we expect to continue to be the subject of regulatory inquiries, investigations and audits in the future by the ftc and other regulators around the world. it is possible that a regulatory inquiry, investigation or audit might result in changes to our policies or practices, and may cause us to incur substantial costs or could result in reputational harm, prevent us from offering certain products, services, features or function alities, cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner materially adverse to our business. violation of existing or future regulatory orders, settlements or consent decrees could subject us to substantial monetary fines and other penalties that could negatively affect our financial condition and operating results. 27 even though twitter is a global platform for public self-expression and conversation, user trust regarding privacy is important to the growth of users and the increase in user engagement on our platform, and privacy concerns relating to our products and services could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users and advertisers from using twitter. from time to time, concerns have been expressed by governments, regulators and others about whether our products, services or practices compromise the privacy of users and others. concerns about, governmental or regulatory actions involving our practices with regard to the collection, use, d isclosure or security of personal information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation, cause us to lose users and advertisers and adversely affect our operating results. while we strive to comply with applicable data protection laws and regulations, as well as our own posted privacy policies and other obligations we may have with respect to privacy and data protection, the failure or perceived failure to comply may result, and in some cases has resulted, in inquiries and other proceedings or actions against us by governments, regulators or others, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation and brand, each of which could cause us to lose users and advertisers, which could have an adverse effect on our business. any systems failure or compromise of our security that results in the unauthorized access to or release of our users' or advertisers' data could significantly limit the adoption of our products and services, as well as harm our reputation and brand and, therefore, our business. we expect to continue to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches. the risk that these types of events could seriously harm our business is likely to increase as we expand the number of products and services we offer, increase the size of our user base and operate in more countries. governments and regulators around the world are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection. in addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws or regulations in the united states, europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in flux, and in some cases, laws or regulations in one country may be inconsistent with, or contrary to, those of another country. it is possible that these laws and regulations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our practices. if so, in addition to the possibility of fines, this could result in an order requiring that we change our practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. complying with new laws and regulations could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner materially adverse to our business. if our security measures are breached, or if our products and services are subject to attacks that degrade or deny the ability of users to access our products and services, our products and services may be perceived as not being secure, users and advertisers may curtail or stop using our products and services and our business and operating results could be harmed. our products and services involve the storage and transmission of users' and advertisers' information, and security breaches expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and potential liability. we experience cyber-attacks of varying degrees on a regular basis, and as a result, unauthorized parties have obtained, and may in the future obtain, access to our data or our users' or adve rtisers' data. for example, in february 2013, we disclosed that sophisticated unknown third parties had attacked our systems and may have had access to limited information for approximately 250,000 users. our security measures may also be breached due to employee error, malfeasance or otherwise. additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees, users or advertisers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or our users' or advertisers' data or accounts, or may otherwise obtain access to such data or accounts. since our users and advertisers may use their twitter accounts to establish and maintain online identities, unauthorized communications from twitter accounts that have been compromised may damage their reputations and brands as well as ours. any such breach or unauthorized access could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation and a loss of confidence in the security of our products and services that could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. if an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed, we could lose users and advertisers and we may incur significant legal and financial exposure, including legal claims and regulatory fines and penalties. any of these actions could have a material and adverse effect on our business, reputation and operating results. 28 we may face lawsuits or incur liability as a result of content published or made available through our products and services. we have faced and will continue to face claims relating to content that is published or made available through our products and services or third party products or services. in particular, the nature of our business exposes us to claims related to defamation, intellectual property rights, rights of publicity and privacy, illegal content, content regulation and personal injury torts. the law relating to the liability of providers of online products or services for activities of their users remains somewhat unsettled, both within the united states and internationally. this risk may be enhanced in certain jurisdictions outside the united states where we may be less protected under local laws than we are in the united states. in addition, the public nature of communications on our network exposes us to risks arising from the creation of impersonation accounts intended to be attributed to our users or advertisers. we could incur significant costs investigating and defending these claims. if we incur costs or liability as a result of these events occurring, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services and brand. our trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights are important assets for us. we rely on, and expect to continue to rely on, a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, trade dress, domain name, copyright, trade secret and patent laws, to protect our brand and other intellectual property rights. however, various events outside of our control pose a threat to our intellectual property rights, as well as to our products, services and technologies. for example, we may fail to obtain effective intellectual property protection, or effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are available. also, the efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient or effective, and any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged, which could result in them being narrowed in scope or declared invalid or unenforceable. there can be no assurance our intellectual property rights will be sufficient to protect against others offering products or services that are substantially similar to ours and compete with our business. we rely on non-patented proprietary information and technology, such as trade secrets, confidential information, know-how and technical information. while in certain cases we have agreements in place with employees and third parties that place restrictions on the use and disclosure of this intellectual property, these agreements may be breached, or this int ellectual property may otherwise be disclosed or become known to our competitors, which could cause us to lose any competitive advantage resulting from this intellectual property. we are pursuing registration of trademarks and domain names in the united states and in certain jurisdictions outside of the united states. effective protection of trademarks and domain names is expensive and difficult to maintain, both in terms of application and registration costs as well as the costs of defending and enforcing those rights. we may be required to protect our rights in an increasing number of countries, a process that is expensive and may not be successful or which we may not pursue in every country in which our products and services are distributed or made available. we are party to numerous agreements that grant licenses to third parties to use our intellectual property, including our trademarks. for example, many third parties distribute their content through twitter, or embed twitter content in their applications or on their websites, and make use of our trademarks in connection with their services. if the licensees of our trademarks are not using our trademarks properly, it may limit our ability to protect our trademarks and could ultimately result in our tra demarks being declared invalid or unenforceable. we have a policy designed to assist third parties in the proper use of our brand, trademarks and other assets, and we have an internal team dedicated to enforcing our policy and protecting our brand. our brand protection team routinely receives and reviews reports of improper and unauthorized use of the twitter brand, trademarks or assets and issues takedown notices or initiates discussions with the third parties to correct the issues. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to protect against the unauthorized use of our brand, trademarks or other assets. if we fail to maintain and enforce our trademark rights, the value of our brand could be diminished. there is also a risk that one or more of our trademarks could become generic, which could result in them being declared invalid or unenforceable. for example, there is a risk that the word tweet could become so commonly used that it becomes synonymous with any short comment posted publicly on the internet, and if this happens, we could lose protection of this trademark. 29 we also seek to obtain patent protection for some of our technology and as of december 31 , 2013, we had 956 issued u.s. patents and approximately 100 patent applications on file in the united states and abroad, although there can be no assurance that these applications will be ultimately issued as patents. we may be unable to obtain patent or trademark protection for our technologies and brands, and our existing patents and trademarks, and any patents or trademarks that may be issued in the future, may not provide us with competitive advantages or distinguish our products and services from those of our competitors. in addition, any patents and trademarks may be contested, circumvented, or found unenforceable or invalid, and we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing, diluting or otherwise violating them. effective protection of patent rights is expensive and difficult to maintain, both in terms of application and maintenance costs, as well as the costs of defending and enforcing those rights. our innovator's patent agreement, or ipa, also limits our ability to prevent infringement of certain of our patents. in may 2013, we implemented the ipa, which we enter into with our employees and consultants, including our founders. the ipa, which applies to our current and future patents, allows us to assert our patents defensively. the ipa also allows us to assert our patents offensively with the permission of the inventors of the applicable patent. under the ipa, an assertion of claims is considered for a defensive purpose if the claims are asserted: (i) against an entity that has filed, maintained, threatened or voluntarily participated in a patent infringement lawsuit against us or any of our users, affiliates, customers, suppliers or distributors; (ii) against an entity that has used its patents offensively against any other party in the past ten years, so long as the entity has not instituted the patent infringement lawsuit defensively in response to a patent litigation threat against the entity; or (iii) otherwise to deter a patent litigation threat against us or our users, affiliates, customers, suppliers or distributors. in addition, the ipa provides that the above limitations apply to any future owner or exclusive licensee of any of our patents, which could limit our ability to sell or license our patents to third parties. while we may be able to claim protection of our intellectual property under other rights, such as trade secrets or contractual obligations with our employees not to disclose or use confidential information, we may be unable to assert our patent rights against third parties that we believe are infringing our patents, even if such third parties are developing products and services that compete with our products and services. for example, in the event that an inventor of one of our patents leaves us for another company and uses our patented technology to compete with us, we would not be able to assert that patent against such other company unless the assertion of the patent right is for a defensive purpose. in such event, we may be limited in our ability to assert a patent right against another company, and instead would need to rely on trade secret protection or the contractual obligation of the inventor to us not to disclose or use our confidential information. in addition, the terms of the ipa could affect our ability to monetize our intellectual property portfolio. significant impairments of our intellectual property rights, and limitations on our ability to assert our intellectual property rights against others, could harm our business and our ability to compete. also, obtaining, maintaining and enforcing our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our operating results. 30 we are currently, and expect to be in the future, party to intellectual property rights claims that are expensive and time consuming to defend, and, if resolved adversely, could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. companies in the internet, technology and media industries own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation or other violations of intellectual property or other rights. many companies in these industries, including many of our c ompetitors, have substantially larger patent and intellectual property portfolios than we do, which could make us a target for litigation as we may not be able to assert counterclaims against parties that sue us for patent, or other intellectual property infringement. in addition, various non-practicing entities that own patents and other intellectual property rights often attempt to aggressively assert claims in order to extract value from technology companies. from time to time we receive claims from third parties which allege that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights. in this regard, we recently received a letter from international business machines corporation, or ibm, alleging that we infringe on at least three u.s. patents held by ibm, and inviting us to negotiate a business resolution of the allegations. in december 2013, we acquired over 900 patents from ibm, which significantly increases the size of our patent portfolio and entered into a patent cross-license. further, from time to time we may introduce new products and services, including in areas where we currently do not have an offering, which could increase our exposure to patent and other intellectual property claims from competitors and non-practicing entities. in addition, although our standard terms and conditions for our promoted products and public apis do not provide advertisers and platform partners with indemnification for intellectual property claims against them, some of our agreements with advertisers, platform partners and data partners require us to indemnify them for certain intellectual property claims against them, which could require us to incur considerable costs in defending such claims, and may require us to pay significant damages in the event of an adverse ruling. such advertisers, platform partners and data partners may also discontinue use of our products, services and technologies as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenue and adversely impact our business. we presently are involved in a number of intellectual property lawsuits, and as we face increasing competition and gain an increasingly high profile, we expect the number of patent and other intellectual property claims against us to grow. there may be intellectual property or other rights held by others, including issued or pending patents, that cover significant aspects of our products and services, and we cannot be sure that we are not infringing or violating, and have not infringed or violated, any third-party intellectual property rights or that we will not be held to have done so or be accused of doing so in the future. any claim or litigation alleging that we have infringed or otherwise violated intellectual property or other rights of third parties, with or without merit, and whether or not settled out of court or determined in our favor, could be time-consuming and costly to address and resolve, and could divert the time and attention of our management and technical personnel. some of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do and are able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation to a greater degree and for longer periods of time than we could. the outcome of any litigation is inherently uncertain, and there can be no assurances that favorable final outcomes will be obtained in all cases. in addition, plaintiffs may seek, and we may become subject to, preliminary or provisional rulings in the course of any such litigation, including potential preliminary injunctions requiring us to cease some or all of our operations. we may decide to settle such lawsuits and disputes on terms that are unfavorable to us. similarly, if any litigation to which we are a party is resolved adversely, we may be subject to an unfavorable judgment that may not be reversed upon appeal. the terms of such a settlement or judgment may require us to cease some or all of our operations or pay substantial amounts to the other party. in addition, we may have to seek a license to continue practices found to be in violation of a third party's rights. if we are required, or choose to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, such arrangements may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, and may significantly increase our operating costs and expenses. as a result, we may also be required to develop or procure alternative non-infringing technology or discontinue use of the technology. the development or procurement of alternative non-infringing technology could require significant effort and expense or may not be feasible. an unfavorable resolution of the disputes and litigation referred to above could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 31 many of our products and services contain open source software, and we license some of our software through open source projects, which may pose particular risks to our proprietary software, products, and services in a manner that could have a negative effect on our business. we use open source software in our products and services and will use open source software in the future. in addition, we regularly contribute software source code to open source projects under open source licenses or release internal software projects under open source licenses, and anticipate doing o in the future. the terms of many open source licenses to which we are subject have not been interpreted by u.s. or foreign courts, and there is a risk that open source software licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to provide or distribute our products or services. additionally, we may from time to time face claims from third parties claiming ownership of, or demanding release of, the open source software or derivative works that we developed using such software, which could include our proprietary source code, or otherwise seeking to enforce the terms of the applicable open source license. these claims could result in litigation and could require us to make our software source code freely available, purchase a costly license or cease offering the implicated products or services unless and until we can re-engineer them to avoid infringement. this re-engineering process could require significant additional research and development resources, and we may not be able to complete it successfully. in addition to risks related to license requirements, use of certain open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of software. additionally, because any software source code we contribute to open source projects is publicly available, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights with respect to such software source code may be limited or lost entirely, and we are unable to prevent our competitors or others from using such contributed software source code. any of these risks could be difficult to eliminate or manage, and, if not addressed, could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we may require additional capital to support our operations or the growth of our business, and we cannot be certain that this capital will be available on reasonable terms when required, or at all. from time to time, we may need additional financing to operate or grow our business. our ability to obtain additional financing, if and when required, will depend on investor and lender demand, our operating performance, the condition of the capital markets and other factors, and we cannot assure you that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those sec urities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our existing stockholders may experience dilution. if we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support the operation or growth of our business could be significantly impaired and our operating results may be harmed. we rely on assumptions and estimates to calculate certain of our key metrics, and real or perceived inaccuracies in such metrics may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. the numbers of our active users and timeline views are calculated using internal company data that has not been independently verified. while these numbers are based on what we believe to be reasonable calculations for the applicable period of measurement, there are inherent challenges in measuring usage and user engagem ent across our large user base around the world. for example, there are a number of false or spam accounts in existence on our platform. in 2013, we performed an internal review of a sample of accounts and estimated that false or spam accounts represented less than 5% of our maus. in making this determination, we applied significant judgment, so our estimation of false or spam accounts may not accurately represent the actual number of such accounts, and the actual number of false or spam accounts could be higher than we have estimated. we are continually seeking to improve our ability to estimate the total number of spam accounts and eliminate them from the calculation of our active users, but we otherwise treat multiple accounts held by a single person or organization as multiple users for purposes of calculating our active users because we permit people and organizations to have more than one account. additionally, some accounts used by organizations are used by many people within the organization. as such, the calculations of our active users may not accurately reflect the actual number of people or organizations using our platform. our metrics are also affected by mobile applications that automatically contact our servers for regular updates with no user action involved, and this activity can cause our system to count the user associated with such a device as an active user on the day such contact occurs. the calculations of maus presented in this annual report on form 10-k may be affected by this activity. the impact of this automatic activity on our metrics varies by geography because mobile application usage varies in different reg ions of the world. in addition, our data regarding user geographic location is based on the ip address associated with the account when a user initially registered the account on twitter. the ip address may not always accurately reflect a user's actual location at the time of user engagement on our platform. 32 we present and discuss timeline views in the year ended december 31, 2012, but we did not track all of the timeline views on our mobile applications during the three months ended march 31, 2012. we have included in this annual report on form 10-k estimates for actual timeline views in the three months ended march 31, 2012 for the mobile applications we did not track. in addition, we have estimated a small percentage of the timeline views in the three months ended september 30, 2013 to account for certain timeline views that were logged incorrectly during the quarter as a result of a product update. we believe these estimates to be reasonable, but actual numbers could differ from our estimates. further, timeline views in the year ended december 31, 2012 exclude an immaterial number of timeline views in our mobile applications, certain of which were not fully tracked until june 2012. we regularly review and may adjust our processes for calculating our internal metrics to improve their accuracy. our measures of user growth and user engagement may differ from estimates published by third parties or from similarly-titled metrics of our competitors due to differences in methodology. if advertisers, platform par tners or investors do not perceive our user metrics to be accurate representations of our user base or user engagement, or if we discover material inaccuracies in our user metrics, our reputation may be harmed and advertisers and platform partners may be less willing to allocate their budgets or resources to our products and services, which could negatively affect our business and operating results. we depend on highly skilled personnel to grow and operate our business, and if we are unable to hire, retain and motivate our personnel, we may not be able to grow effectively. our future success will depend upon our continued ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel, including senior management, engineers, designers and product managers. our ability to execute efficiently is dependent upon contributions from our employees, in particular our senior management team. we do not have employment agreements other than offer letters with any member of our senior management or oth er key employee, and we do not maintain key person life insurance for any employee. in addition, from time to time, there may be changes in our senior management team that may be disruptive to our business. if our senior management team, including any new hires that we may make, fails to work together effectively and to execute our plans and strategies on a timely basis, our business could be harmed. our growth strategy also depends on our ability to expand and retain our organization with highly skilled personnel. identifying, recruiting, training and integrating qualified individuals will require significant time, expense and attention. in addition to hiring new employees, we must continue to focus on retaining our best employees. because of our initial public offering, many of our employees may be able to receive significant proceeds from sales of our equity in the public markets, which may reduce their motivation to continue to work for us. competition for highly skilled personnel is intense, particularly in the san francisco bay area, where our headquarters is located. we may need to invest significant amounts of cash and equity to attract and retain new employees and we may never realize returns on these investments. if we are not able to effectively add and retain employees, our ability to achieve our strategic objectives will be adversely impacted, and our business will be harmed. our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, creativity and teamwork fostered by our culture, and our business may be harmed. we believe that our culture has been and will continue to be a key contributor to our success. from january 1, 2010 to december 31 , 2013, we increased the size of our workforce by approximately 2,600 full-time employees, and we expect to continue to hire aggressively as we expand. if we do not continue to develop our corporate culture or maintain our core values as we grow and evolve, we may be unable to foster the innovation, creativity and teamwork we believe we need to support our growth. moreover, liquidity available to our employee securityholders following our initial public offering could lead to disparities of wealth among our employees, which could adversely impact relations among employees and our culture in general. our transition from a private company to a public company may result in a change to our corporate culture, which could harm our business. 33 we rely in part on application marketplaces and internet search engines to drive traffic to our products and services, and if we fail to appear high up in the search results or rankings, traffic to our platform could decline and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. we rely on application marketplaces, such as apple's app store and google's play, to drive downloads of our mobile applications. in the future, apple, google or other operators of application marketplaces may make changes to their marketplaces which make access to our pr oducts and services more difficult. we also depend in part on internet search engines, such as google, bing and yahoo!, to drive traffic to our website. for example, when a user types an inquiry into a search engine, we rely on a high organic search result ranking of our webpages in these search results to refer the user to our website. however, our ability to maintain high organic search result rankings is not within our control. our competitors' search engine optimization, or seo, efforts may result in their websites receiving a higher search result page ranking than ours, or internet search engines could revise their methodologies in a way that would adversely affect our search result rankings. for example, google has integrated its social networking offerings, including google+, with certain of its products, including search, which has negatively impacted the organic search ranking of our webpages. if internet search engines modify their search algorithms in ways that are detrimental to us, or if our competitors' seo efforts are more successful than ours, the growth in our user base could slow. our website has experienced fluctuations in search result rankings in the past, and we anticipate similar fluctuations in the future. any reduction in the number of users directed to our mobile applications or website through application marketplaces and search engines could harm our business and operating results. more people are using devices other than personal computers to access the internet and new platforms to produce and consume content, and we need to continue to promote the adoption of our mobile applications, and our business and operating results may be harmed if we are unable to do so. the number of people who access the internet through devices other than personal computers, including mobile phones, smartphones, handheld computers such as net books and tablets, video game consoles and television set-top devices, has increased dramatically in the past few years. in the three months ended december 31, 2013, over 75% of our advertising revenue was generated from mobile devices. since we generate a majority of our advertising revenue through users on mobile devices, we must continue to drive adoption of our mobile applications. in addition, mobile users frequently change or upgrade their mobile devices. our business and operating results may be harmed if our users do not install our mobile application when they change or upgrade their mobile device. although we generate the majority of our advertising revenue from ad engagements on mobile devices, certain of our products and services, including promoted trends and promoted accounts, receive less prominence on our mobile applications than they do on our desktop applications. this has in the past reduced, and may in the future continue to reduce, the amount of revenue we are able to generate from these products and services as users increasingly access our products and services through mobile and alternative devices. in addition, as new devices and platforms are continually being released, users may consume content in a manner that is more difficult to monetize. it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in adapting our products and services and developing competitive new products and services that are compatible with new devices or platforms. if we are unable to develop products and services that are compatible with new devices and platforms, or if we are unable to drive continued adoption of our mobile applications, our business and operating results may be harmed. future acquisitions and investments could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and operating results. our success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our products and services, and grow our business in response to changing technologies, user and advertiser demands, and competitive pressures. in some circumstances, we may determine to do so through the acquisition of complementary businesses and technologies rather than through internal development, including, for example , our recent acquisitions of vine labs, inc., a mobile application that enables users to create and distribute videos that are up to six seconds in length, bluefin labs, inc., a social television analytics company that provides data products to brand advertisers, agencies and television networks, and mopub, a mobile-focused advertising exchange. the identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions. the risks we face in connection with acquisitions include: diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to addressing acquisition integration challenges; coordination of research and development and sales and marketing functions; retention of key employees from the acquired company; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization; 34 integration of the acquired company's accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems; the need to implement or improve controls, procedures, and policies at a business that prior to the acquisition may have lacked effective controls, procedures and policies; liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including intellectual property infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities; unanticipated write-offs or charges; and litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, users, former stockholders or other third parties. our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments, cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally. fut ure acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses, incremental operating expenses or the write-off of goodwill, any of which could harm our financial condition or operating results. if we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. as a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, or the exchange act, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, or the sarbanes-oxley act, and the listing standards of the new york stock exchange. we expect that the requirements of these rules and regulations will continue to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time consuming and costly, and place significant strain on our pers onnel, systems and resources. the sarbanes-oxley act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. we are continuing to develop and refine our disclosure controls and other procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we will file with the sec is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in sec rules and forms, and th at information required to be disclosed in reports under the exchange act is accumulated and communicated to our principal executive and financial officers. we are also continuing to improve our internal control over financial reporting. in order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we have expended, and anticipate that we will continue to expend, significant resources, including accounting-related costs and significant management oversight. our current controls and any new controls that we develop may become inadequate because of changes in conditions in our business. further, weaknesses in our disclosure controls or our internal control over financial reporting may be discovered in the future. any failure to develop or maintain effective controls, or any difficulties encountered in their implementation or improvement, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and may re sult in a restatement of our financial statements for prior periods. any failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting also could adversely affect the results of management evaluations and independent registered public accounting firm audits of our internal control over financial reporting that we will eventually be required to include in our periodic reports that will be filed with the sec. ineffective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial and other information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. in addition, if we are unable to continue to meet these requirements, we may not be able to remain listed on the new york stock exchange. we are not currently required to comply with the sec rules that implement section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act, and are therefore not required to make a formal assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for that purpose. as a public company, we will be required to provide an annual management report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting commencing with our seco nd annual report on form 10-k. our independent registered public accounting firm is not required to audit the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting until after we are no longer an emerging growth company, as defined in the jumpstart our business startups act of 2012, or the jobs act. at such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our internal control over financial reporting is documented, designed or operating. 35 any failure to maintain effective disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting could have a material and adverse effect on our business and operating results, and cause a decline in the price of our common stock. we are an emerging growth company, and any decision on our part to comply only with certain reduced reporting and disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies could make our common stock less attractive to investors. we are an emerging growth company, and, for as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may choose to take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies but not to emerging growth companies, including, but not limited to, not being required to have our independent registered public accounting firm audit our internal control over financial reporting under section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding execu tive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. we could be an emerging growth company for up to five years following the completion of our initial public offering. we will cease to be an emerging growth company upon the earliest of: (i) the end of the fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of our initial public offering, (ii) the first fiscal year after our annual gross revenue are $1.0 billion or more, (iii) the date on which we have, during the previous three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities or (iv) the end of any fiscal year in which the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeded $700 million as of the end of the second quarter of that fiscal year. we cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive if we choose to rely on these exemptions. if some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result of any choices to reduce future disclosure, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and the price of our common stock may be more volatile. under the jobs act, emerging growth companies can also delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. we have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this accommodation allowing for delayed adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and, therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. if currency exchange rates fluctuate substantially in the future, our operating results, which are reported in u.s. dollars, could be adversely affected. as we continue to expand our international operations, we will become more exposed to the effects of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. we incur expenses for employee compensation and other operating expenses at our international locations in the local currency, and accept payment from advertisers or data partners in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. since we conduct business in currencies ot her than u.s. dollars but report our operating results in u.s. dollars, we face exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. consequently, exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and other currencies could have a material impact on our operating results. our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, power outages, floods and other catastrophic events, and to interruption by man-made problems such as terrorism. a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire, flood or significant power outage could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. our headquarters and certain of our co-located data center facilities are located in the san francisco bay area, a region known for seismic activity. despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at our data centers could result in lengthy interruptions in ou r services. in addition, acts of terrorism and other geo-political unrest could cause disruptions in our business. all of the aforementioned risks may be further increased if our disaster recovery plans prove to be inadequate. we have implemented a disaster recovery program, which allows us to move production to a back-up data center in the event of a catastrophe. although this program is functional, we do not currently serve network traffic equally from each data center, so if our primary data center shuts down, there will be a period of time that our products or services, or certain of our products or services, will remain inaccessible to our users or our users may experience severe issues accessing our products and services. we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses, including the potential harm to our business that may result from interruptions in our ability to provide our products and services. 36 we may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities, which could adversely impact our operating results. our income tax obligations are based in part on our corporate operating structure, including the manner in which we develop, value and use our intellectual property and the scope of our international operations. the tax laws applicable to our international business activities, including the laws of the united states and other jurisdictions, are subject to interpretation. the taxing authorities of the jurisdictions in which w e operate may challenge our methodologies for valuing developed technology (or other intangible assets) or intercompany arrangements, which could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial condition and operating results. we are subject to review and audit by u.s. federal and state and foreign tax authorities. tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our financial position and operating results. in addition, our future income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations or accounting principles. tax expenses, or disputes with tax authorities, could adversely impact our operating results. if our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. under gaap, we review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. as of december 31, 2013, we had recorded a total of $441.1 million of goodwill and intangible assets related to our acquisitions. an adverse change in market conditions, particularly if such change has the effect of changing one of our critical assumptions or estimates, could result in a change to the estimation of fair value that could result in an impairment charge to our goodwill or intangible assets. any such material charges may have a material negative impact on our operating results. our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited. as of december 31, 2013 , we had u.s. federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $429.3 million and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $268.3 million. under sections 382 and 383 of internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, or the code, if a corporation undergoes an ownership change, the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes, such as research tax credits, to offset its post-change income and taxes may be limited. in general, an ownership change occurs if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by 5% shareholders that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. similar rules may apply under state tax laws. in the event that it is determined that we have in the past experienced an ownership change, or if we experience one or more ownership changes as a result of our initial public offering or future transactions in our stock, then we may be limited in our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax assets to reduce taxes owed on the net taxable income that we earn. any such limitations on the ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax assets could adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. risks related to ownership of our common stock our executive officers, directors and holders of 5% or more of our common stock collectively beneficially own approximately 50% of the outstanding shares of our common stock and continue to have substantial control over us, which will limit your ability to influence the outcome of important transactions, including a change in control. our executive officers, directors and each of our stockholders who own 5% or more of our outstanding common stock and their affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 50% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, based on the number of shares outstanding as of december 31, 2013. as a result, these stockholders, if acting together, are able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, acquisitions or other extraordinary transactions. they may also have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. 37 anti-takeover provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and delaware law contain provisions which could have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying, or preventing an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. among other things, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include provisions: creating a classified board of directors whose members serve staggered three-year terms; authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval and may contain voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings; requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; and controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of board of directors and stockholder meetings. these provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation l aw, which prevents certain stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of our outstanding common stock not held by such 15% or greater stockholder. any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. the market price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment. prior to our initial public offering, there had been no public market for shares of our common stock. the market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. in addition to the factors discussed in this risk factors section and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k, factors that could cause fluctuations in the market price of our common stock include the following: price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; volatility in the market prices and trading volumes of technology stocks; changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in our industry in particular; sales of shares of our common stock by us or our stockholders; failure of securities analysts to maintain coverage of us, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts who follow our company, or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors; the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in those projections or our failure to meet those projections; announcements by us or our competitors of new products or services; the public's reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the sec; rumors and market speculation involving us or other companies in our industry; actual or anticipated changes in our operating results or fluctuations in our operating results; actual or anticipated developments in our business, our competitors' businesses or the competitive landscape generally; 38 litigation involving us, our industry or both, or investigations by regulators into our operations or those of our competitors; developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; announced or completed acquisitions of businesses or technologies by us or our competitors; new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidelines, interpretations or principles; any significant change in our management; and general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of our markets. in addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. this litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. a total of 489,421,608, or 85.9%, of the outstanding shares of our common stock are restricted from immediate resale, but may be sold on a stock exchange in the near future. the large number of shares eligible for public sale or subject to rights requiring us to register them for public sale could depress the market price of our common stock. the market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market, and the perception that these sales could occur may also depress the market price of our common stock. as of december 31, 2013, there were 569,921,608 shares of our common stock outstanding. our executive officers, directors and the holders of substantially all of our capital stock and securities convertible into or exchangeable for our capital stock have entered into market standoff agreements with us or lock-up agreements with the underwriters of our initial public offering under which they have agreed, subject to specific exceptions, not to sell any shares of our common stock prior to may 6, 2014. as a result of these agreements and the provisions of our investors' rights agreement, shares of our common stock will be available for sale in the public market as follows: beginning on february 19, 2014, up to an aggregate of 9,867,228 shares of our common stock that are held by our employees who are not executive officers became eligible for sale in the public market in order to satisfy the income tax obligations of such employees resulting from the vesting and settlement of the outstanding pre-2013 rsus for which we expect the service condition will have been satisfied on such date and through the end of the lock-up period; and beginning on may 6, 2014, the remainder of the shares of our common stock will be eligible for sale in the public market from time to time thereafter, subject in some cases to the volume and other restrictions of rules 144 and 701 under the securities act of 1933, as amended, as well as our insider trading policy. additionally, stockholders own ing an aggregate of up to 386,952,743 shares of our common stock will be entitled, under contracts providing for registration rights, to require us to register shares of our common stock owned by them for public sale in the united states. in addition, we filed a registration statement to register 214,504,532 shares reserved for future issuance under our equity compensation plans. as a result, the shares of our common stock issued upon exercise of outstanding stock options or the vesting of rsus will be available for immediate resale in the united states in the open market. sales of our common stock as restrictions end or pursuant to registration rights may make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. these sales also could cause the price of our common stock to fall and make it more difficult for you to sell shares of our common stock. if securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our common stock adversely, the price of our common stock and trading volume could decline. the trading market for our common stock is influenced, to some extent, by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. if any of the analysts who cover us change their recommendation regarding our common stock adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, the price of our common stock would likely decline. if any analyst who cover us were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause the price of our common stock or trading volume to decline. 39 we do not expect to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future. we do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. consequently, investors may need to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any futu re gains on their investment. investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 66 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have operations both within the united states and internationally, and we are exposed to market risks in the ordinary course of our business. these risks include primarily interest rate and foreign exchange risks. interest rate fluctuation risk our investment portfolio mainly consists of short-term and long-term interest-bearing obligations, including government and investment-grade debt securities and money market funds. these securities are classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded on the consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses repor ted as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax. our investment policy and strategy is focused on the preservation of capital and supporting our liquidity requirements. we do not enter into investments for trading or speculative purposes. 66 a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio. based on our investment portfolio balance as of december 31, 2013, a hypothetical increase in interest rates of 100 basis points would result in a decrease of approximately $ 5.4 million in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities. we currently do not hedge these interest rate exposures. foreign currency exchange risk transaction exposure we transact business in various foreign currencies and have international revenue, as well as costs denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the euro, british pound and japanese yen. this exposes us to the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. accordingly, changes in exchange rates, and in particular a strengthening of the u.s. dollar, would negatively affect our revenue and other operating results as expressed in u.s. dollars. we have experienced and will continue to experience fluctuations in our net loss as a result of transaction gains or losses related to revaluing certain current asset and current liability balances that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entities in which they are recorded. foreign currency transaction gains and losses were not significant in 2013, 2012 or 2011. at this time we do not, but we may in the future, enter into derivatives or other financial instruments in an attempt to hedge our foreign currency exchange risk. it is difficult to predict the impact hedging activities would have on our results of operations. translation exposure we are also exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as we convert the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries into u.s. dollars in consolidation. if there is a change in foreign currency exchange rates, the conversion of our foreign subsidiaries' financial statements into u.s. dollars would result in a gain or loss recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) which is part of stockholders' equity (deficit). revenue and related expenses generated from our international subsidiaries are generally denominated in the currencies of the local countries. primary currencies include the euros, british pound and japanese yen. the statements of income of our international operations are translated into u.s. dollars at exchange rates indicative of market rates during each applicable period. to the extent the u.s. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency-denominated transacti ons would result in reduced consolidated revenue and operating expenses. conversely, our consolidated revenue and operating expenses would increase if the u.s. dollar weakens against foreign currencies. foreign currency translation gains and losses were not significant in 2013, 2012 or 2011. 67risk factors 10 risk factors investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, including the section titled management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making a decision to invest in our common stock. the risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only ones we face. if any of the risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. in that event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. risks related to our business and our industry if we fail to increase our mdau, ad engagement or other general engagement on our platform, our revenue, business and operating results may be harmed. our mdau and their level of engagement with advertising are critical to our success and our long-term financial performance will continue to be significantly determined by our success in increasing the growth rate of our mdau as well as the number of ad engagements. our mdau growth rate has fluctuated over time, and it may slow or decline. to the extent our mdau growth rate slows or the absolute number of mdau declines, our revenue growth will become dependent on our ability to increase levels of engagement on twitter and increase revenue growth from third-party publishers' websites and applications, data licensing and other offerings. we generate a substantial majority of our revenue based upon engagement with the ads that we display. a number of factors could potentially negatively affect mdau growth and engagement, including if: accounts, including influential accounts, such as those of world leaders, government officials, celebrities, athletes, journalists, sports teams, media outlets and brands or certain age demographics, do not contribute unique or engaging content, or engage with other products, services or activities as an alternative to ours; we are unable to convince people of the value and usefulness of our products and services; there is a decrease in the perceived quality, usefulness, trustworthiness or relevance of the content generated by people on twitter or content partners; our actions taken to better foster a healthy conversation or to improve relevancy negatively impact or are perceived to negatively impact people's experiences on the platform; there are concerns related to communication, privacy, data protection, safety, security, spam, manipulation or other hostile or inappropriate usage or other factors, or our health efforts result in the removal of certain accounts; our content partners terminate their relationships with us or do not renew their agreements on economic or other terms that are favorable to us; we fail to introduce new and improved products or services or if we introduce new or improved products or services that are not favorably received or that negatively affect engagement; 10 table of contents technical or other problems prevent us from delivering our products or services in a rapid and reliable manner or otherwise affect people's experiences on twitter; people have difficulty installing, updating, or otherwise accessing our products or services on mobile devices as a result of actions by us or third parties that we rely on to distribute our products and deliver our services; changes in our products or services that are mandated by, or that we elect to make to address, laws (such as the general data protection regulation (gdpr)) or legislation, inquiries from legislative bodies, regulatory authorities or litigation (including settlements or consent decrees) adversely affect our products or services; we fail to provide adequate customer service; or we do not maintain our brand image or reputation. if we are unable to increase our mdau or engagement, or if these metrics decline, our products and services could be less attractive to people on twitter, as well as to advertisers, content partners and platform partners, which would have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. we generate the substantial majority of our revenue from advertising. the loss of advertising revenue could harm our business. the substantial majority of our revenue is currently generated from third parties advertising on twitter. we generate substantially all of our advertising revenue through the sale of our promoted products: promoted tweets, promoted accounts and promoted trends. as is common in our industry, our advertisers do not have long-term advertising commitments with us. in addition, many of our advertisers purchase our advertising services through one of several large advertising agencies' holding companies. to sustain or increase our revenue, we must add new advertisers and encourage existing advertisers to maintain or increase the amount of advertising inventory purchased through our platform and adopt new features and functionalities that we add to our platform. however, advertising agencies and potential new advertisers may view our promoted products or any new products or services we offer as experimental and unproven, and we may need to devote additional time and resources to educate them about our products and services. further, our advertisers' ability to effectively target their advertising to our audience's interests may be impacted by the degree to which people on twitter agree in our settings to certain types of personalization or ad targeting, which could have an impact on our revenue. people that already have accounts may change their choices as a result of changes to our privacy control settings that we have implemented or may implement in the future, and people new to twitter may choose varied levels of personalization, whether in connection with future changes we make to product privacy settings, regulations, regulatory actions, the customer experience, or otherwise. over time, personalization rates will impact our ability to grow our performance advertising business. advertisers also may choose to use our free products and services instead of our promoted products. advertisers will not continue to do business with us, or they will reduce the prices they are willing to pay to advertise with us, if we do not deliver ads in an effective manner, or if they do not believe that their investment in advertising with us will generate a competitive return on investment relative to alternatives, including online, mobile and traditional advertising platforms. in addition, competition for advertising is becoming increasingly more intense and our advertising revenue could be further impacted by escalating competition for digital ad spending. our advertising revenue growth is primarily driven by increases in mdau, increases in ad pricing or number of ads shown and increases in our clickthrough rate. to date, our available advertising inventory has been greater than demand. our future revenue growth, however, may be limited by available advertising inventory for specific ad types on certain days if we do not increase our mdau or monetize our larger global audience. our advertising revenue also could be affected by a number of other factors, including bugs or other product issues that may impact our ability to effectively help advertisers target ads or share data with our measurement and ad partners. the occurrence of any of these factors could result in a reduction in demand for our ads, which may reduce the prices we receive for our ads, either of which would adversely impact our revenue, business, financial condition and operating results. if we are unable to compete effectively, our business and operating results could be harmed. we face intense competition for people to use our platform, content and data partners and advertising spend. we compete for our audience against a variety of social networking platforms, messaging companies and media companies, some of which have greater financial resources, larger audiences or more established relationships with advertisers, such as facebook (including instagram and whatsapp), alphabet (including google and youtube), microsoft (including linkedin), snap, tiktok, and verizon media group, or in certain regions wechat, kakao and line. new or existing competitors may draw people towards their products or services and away from ours by introducing new product features, including features similar to those we offer, investing their greater resources in audience acquisition efforts, or otherwise developing products or services that audiences choose to engage with rather than twitter, any of which could decrease mdau growth or engagement and negatively affect our business. we also compete with respect to content generated by our content partners and the availability of applications developed by platform partners. we may not establish and maintain relationships with content partners who publish on our platform or platform partners who develop applications that integrate with our platform. our content and platform partners may choose to publish content on, or develop applications for, other platforms, and if they cease to utilize our platform or decrease their use of our platform, then mdau, engagement, and advertising revenue may decline. 11 table of contents we believe that our ability to compete effectively for audiences and content partners depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: the popularity, usefulness, ease of use, performance and reliability of our products and services compared to those of our competitors, as well as our reputation and brand, and our ability to adapt to continuously evolving preferences and expectations of people on twitter, advertisers, content partners, platform partners and developers; the amount, quality and timeliness of content generated on our platform, including the relative mix of ads; the timing and market acceptance of our products and services; the prominence of our applications in application marketplaces and of our content in search engine results, as well as those of our competitors; our ability, in and of itself, and in comparison to the ability of our competitors, to develop new products and services and enhancements to existing products and services, and to maintain the reliability and security of our products and services as usage increases globally; changes mandated by, or that we elect to make to address legislation, regulatory authorities or litigation, including settlements, antitrust matters, consent decrees and privacy regulations, some of which may have a disproportionate effect on us compared to our competitors; and the continued adoption and monetization of our products and services internationally. we also face significant competition for advertiser spend. we compete against online and mobile businesses and traditional media outlets, such as television, radio and print, for advertising budgets. we also compete with advertising networks, exchanges, demand side platforms and other platforms, such as google adsense, doubleclick ad exchange, nexage and brightroll ad exchanges, verizon media group, and microsoft media network, for marketing budgets and in the development of the tools and systems for managing and optimizing advertising campaigns. in order to grow our revenue and improve our operating results, we must increase our share of spending on advertising relative to our competitors, many of which are larger companies that offer more traditional and widely accepted advertising products. in addition, some of our larger competitors have substantially broader product or service offerings and leverage their relationships based on other products or services to gain additional share of advertising budgets. we believe that our ability to compete effectively for advertiser spend depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: the size and composition of our audience relative to those of our competitors; our ad targeting and measurement capabilities, and those of our competitors; the timing and market acceptance of our advertising services, and those of our competitors, including our ability to demonstrate to advertisers the value of our advertising services, particularly during the periods in which they are determining their budgets, which may be annually or biannually; our marketing and selling efforts, and those of our competitors; the pricing of our advertising services, including the actual or perceived return our advertisers receive from our advertising services, and those of our competitors; and our reputation and the strength of our brand relative to our competitors. additionally, in recent years, there have been significant acquisitions and consolidation by and among our actual and potential competitors. we anticipate this trend of consolidation will continue, which will present heightened competitive challenges for our business. acquisitions by our competitors may result in reduced functionality of our products and services. for example, following facebook's acquisition of instagram, facebook disabled instagram's photo integration with twitter such that instagram photos were no longer viewable within tweets and people are instead re-directed to instagram to view instagram photos through a link within a tweet. as a result, people who use twitter may be less likely to click on links to instagram photos in tweets, and people who use instagram may be less likely to tweet or remain active on twitter. any similar elimination of integration with twitter in the future, whether by facebook or others, may adversely impact our business and operating results. consolidation may also enable our larger competitors to offer bundled or integrated products that feature alternatives to our platform and provide alternative opportunities for advertisers. if we are not able to compete effectively for audience, content and platform partners, and advertiser spend, our mdau and engagement would decline and our business and operating results would be materially and adversely impacted. 12 table of contents our prioritization on the long-term health of our service, and on product innovation may adversely impact our short-term operating results. we believe that our long-term success depends on our ability to improve the health of the public conversation on twitter. we have made this one of our top priorities and have focused our efforts on improving the quality of that conversation, including by devoting substantial internal resources to our strategy. these efforts include the reduction of abuse, harassment, spam, manipulation and malicious automation on the platform, as well as a focus on improving information quality and the health of conversation on twitter. some of the health initiatives that we have implemented as part of our ongoing commitment to a healthy public conversation have negatively impacted, and may in the future negatively impact, our publicly reported metrics in a few ways. first, our health efforts include the removal of accounts pursuant to our terms and services that are abusive, spammy, fake or malicious, and these accounts may have been included in our mdau, as well as actions taken to detect and challenge potentially automated, spammy, or malicious accounts during the sign-up process. for example, in the third and fourth quarters of 2018, year-over-year average mdau growth was impacted by ongoing health efforts, both due to how we resourced and prioritized our work and the impact from ongoing success removing spammy and suspicious accounts. second, we are also making active decisions to prioritize health related initiatives over other near-term product improvements that may drive more usage of twitter as a daily utility. these decisions may not be consistent with the short-term expectations of our advertising customers or investors and may not produce the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case our mdau growth and engagement, our relationships with advertisers and our business and operating results could be harmed. we also encourage employees to quickly develop and help us launch new and innovative features. we focus on improving the experience for people using our products and services, which includes protecting the privacy of people on twitter, and on developing new and improved products and services for the advertisers on our platform. we prioritize innovation and the experience for people on twitter and advertisers on our platform over short-term operating results. we frequently make product, product feature and service decisions that may reduce our short-term operating results if we believe that the decisions are consistent with our goals to improve the experience for people on twitter and performance for advertisers, which we believe will improve our operating results over the long term. our decisions to invest in the long-term health of our service and on product innovation rather than short-term results may not produce the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case our mdau growth and engagement, our relationships with advertisers and our business and operating results would be adversely impacted, and may not be consistent with the expectations of investors, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. we depend on highly skilled personnel to grow and operate our business. if we are unable to hire, retain and motivate our personnel, we may not be able to grow effectively. our future success and strategy will depend upon our continued ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel, including senior management, engineers, designers and product managers. we depend on contributions from our employees, and, in particular, our senior management team, to execute efficiently and effectively. we do not have employment agreements other than offer letters with any member of our senior management or other key employees, and we do not maintain key person life insurance for any employee. we also face significant competition for employees, particularly in the san francisco bay area (where our headquarters is located) and other key markets, for engineers, designers and product managers from other internet and high-growth companies, which include both publicly-traded and privately-held companies. as a result, we may not be able to retain our existing employees or hire new employees quickly enough to meet our needs. from time to time, we have also experienced high voluntary attrition, and in those times, the resulting influx of new leaders and other employees has required us to expend time, attention and resources to recruit and retain talent, restructure parts of our organization, and train and integrate new employees. in addition, to attract and retain skilled personnel, we have had to offer, and believe we will need to continue to offer, highly competitive compensation packages. we may need to invest significant amounts of cash and equity to attract and retain new employees and we may not realize sufficient return on these investments. in addition, changes to u.s. immigration and work authorization laws and regulations can be significantly affected by political forces and levels of economic activity. our business may be materially adversely affected if legislative or administrative changes to immigration or visa laws and regulations impair our hiring processes or projects involving personnel who are not citizens of the country where the work is to be performed. if we are not able to effectively attract and retain employees, we may not be able to innovate or execute quickly on our strategy and our ability to achieve our strategic objectives will be adversely impacted, and our business will be harmed. we also believe that our culture and core values have been, and will continue to be, a key contributor to our success and our ability to foster the innovation, creativity and teamwork we believe we need to support our operations. if we fail to effectively manage our hiring needs and successfully integrate our new hires, our efficiency and ability to meet our forecasts and our culture, employee morale, productivity and retention could suffer, and our business and operating results would be adversely impacted. 13 table of contents our products, mdau growth, and engagement depend upon the availability of a variety of third-party services and systems and the effective interoperation with operating systems, networks, devices, web browsers and standards. we do not control all of these systems and cannot guarantee their availability, and we cannot guarantee that third parties will not take action that harm our products or profitability. one of the reasons people come to twitter every day is for real-time information, and our products and the success of our business is dependent upon the ability of people to access the internet and the proper functioning of the various operating systems, platforms, and services upon which we rely. these systems are provided and controlled by factors outside of our control, including nation-state actors who may suppress or censor our products, and broadband and internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies, government-owned service providers, device manufacturers and operating system providers. any of these actors could take actions that degrade, disrupt or increase the cost of access to our products or services, which would, in turn, negatively impact our business. the adoption or repeal of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the internet, including laws or practices limiting internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for, or the usage of, our products and services, increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our operating results. for example, access to twitter is blocked in china and has been intermittently blocked in turkey in the past, and certain of our sms messages have been blocked in saudi arabia. we also rely on other companies to maintain reliable network systems that provide adequate speed, data capacity and security. we utilize third-party cloud computing services in connection with certain aspects of our business and operations, and any disruption of, or interference with, our use of such cloud services could adversely impact our business and operations. as the internet continues to experience growth in the number of consumers, frequency of use and amount of data transmitted, the internet infrastructure that we rely on may be unable to support the demands placed upon it. the failure of the internet infrastructure that we rely on, even for a short period of time, could undermine our operations and harm our operating results. furthermore, these systems, devices or software or services may experience changes, bugs or technical issues, that may affect the availability of services or the accessibility of our products. we have experienced, and may in the future experience, service disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, hardware failure, capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of people accessing our products and services simultaneously, computer viruses and denial of service or fraud or security attacks. in the past, we have experienced brief service outages during which twitter.com and twitter mobile clients were inaccessible as a result, in part, of software misconfigurations. additionally, although we are investing significantly to improve the capacity, capability and reliability of our infrastructure, we are not currently serving traffic equally through our co-located data centers that support our platform. accordingly, in the event of a significant issue at the data center supporting most of our network traffic, some of our products and services may become inaccessible to the public or the public may experience difficulties accessing our products and services. any disruption or failure in our infrastructure could hinder our ability to handle existing or increased traffic on our platform, which could significantly harm our business. the availability of these services are also dependent upon our relationships with third parties, which may change, including if they change their terms of service or policies that diminish the functionality of our products and services, make it difficult for people to access our content, limit our ability to target or measure the effectiveness of ads, impose fees related to our products or services or give preferential treatment to competitive products or services could adversely affect usage of our products and services. for example, many of our relationships with our mobile carriers to deliver our sms messages were originally negotiated as free or low-cost connections, but recently some of the mobile carriers have been proposing fee increases for these arrangements, which may not be cost-effective for us. this may, in turn, adversely affect the number of people who receive our sms messages. additionally, some of our mobile carriers have experienced infrastructure issues due to natural disasters, which have caused deliverability errors or poor quality communications with our products. because a majority of people on twitter access our products and services through mobile devices, we are particularly dependent on the interoperability of our products and services with mobile devices and operating systems in order to deliver our products and services. we also may not be successful in developing relationships with key participants in the mobile industry or in developing products or services that operate effectively with these operating systems, networks, devices, web browsers and standards. further, if the number of platforms for which we develop our product expands, it will result in an increase in our operating expenses. in order to deliver high quality products and services, it is important that our products and services work well with a range of operating systems, networks, devices, web browsers and standards that we do not control. any such errors, regardless of whether caused by our infrastructure or that of the service provider, may result in the loss of our existing accounts or may make it difficult to attract new people to twitter. in the event that it is difficult for people to access and use our products and services, particularly on their mobile devices, our mdau growth and engagement could be harmed, and our business and operating results could be adversely impacted. 14 table of contents our new products, product features, services and initiatives and changes to existing products, services and initiatives could fail to attract new people to twitter, content partners, advertisers and platform partners or generate revenue. our industry is subject to rapid and frequent changes in technology, evolving customer needs and the frequent introduction by our competitors of new and enhanced offerings. we must constantly assess the playing field and determine whether we need to improve or re-allocate resources amongst our existing products and services or create new ones (independently or in conjunction with third parties). our ability to increase mdau and engagement, attract content partners, advertisers and platform partners and generate revenue will depend on those decisions. we may introduce significant changes to our existing products and services or develop and introduce new and unproven products and services, including technologies with which we have little or no prior development or operating experience. we are also continuing our work to increase the stability, performance and scale of our ads platform and our map product, and such work will take place over multiple quarters, and any positive revenue impact will be gradual in its impact. if new or enhanced products, product features or services fail to engage people on twitter, content partners and advertisers, we may fail to attract or retain mdau or to generate sufficient revenue or operating profit to justify our investments, and our business, financial condition and operating results would be adversely impacted. our business and operating results may be harmed by our failure to timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology and infrastructure. as accounts generate more content, including photos and videos hosted by twitter, we may be required to expand and adapt our technology and infrastructure to continue to reliably store, serve and analyze this content. it may become increasingly difficult to maintain and improve the performance of our products and services, especially during peak usage times, as our products and services become more complex and our account traffic increases. in addition, because we lease our data center facilities, we cannot be assured that we will be able to expand our data center infrastructure to meet demand in a timely manner, or on favorable economic terms. if people are unable to access twitter or we are not able to make information available rapidly on twitter, people may seek other channels to obtain the information, and may not return to twitter or use twitter as often in the future, or at all. this would negatively impact our ability to attract new people to twitter, content partners and advertisers and increase the frequency of people returning to twitter. we expect to continue to make significant investments to maintain and improve the capacity, capability and reliability of our infrastructure. to the extent that we do not effectively address capacity constraints, upgrade our systems as needed and continually develop our technology and infrastructure to accommodate actual and anticipated changes in technology, our business and operating results may be harmed. we continue to scale the capacity of, and enhance the capability and reliability of, our infrastructure to support mdau growth and increased activity on our platform. we expect that investments and expenses associated with our infrastructure will continue to grow, including the expansion and improvement of our data center operations and related operating costs, additional servers and networking equipment to increase the capacity of our infrastructure, increased utilization of third-party cloud computing and associated costs thereof, increased bandwidth costs, and costs to secure our customers' data. the improvement of our infrastructure requires a significant investment of our management's time and our financial resources. if we fail to efficiently scale and manage our infrastructure, our business, financial condition and operating results would be adversely impacted. if we are unable to maintain and promote our brand, our business and operating results may be harmed. we believe that maintaining and promoting our brand is critical to increasing mdau, content partners and advertiser spend. maintaining and promoting our brand will depend largely on our ability to continue to provide timely, useful, reliable and innovative products and services with a focus on a positive experience on twitter, which we may not do successfully. we may introduce new features, products, services or terms of service that people on twitter, content partners, advertisers or platform partners do not like, which may negatively affect our brand. additionally, the actions of content partners may affect our brand if people do not have a positive experience using third-party applications or websites integrated with twitter or that make use of twitter content. we will also continue to experience media, legislative or regulatory scrutiny of our decisions regarding privacy, data protection, security, content and other issues, which may adversely affect our reputation and brand. for example, we previously announced our discovery of content (including some advertisements) displayed on our products that may be relevant to government investigations relating to russian interference in the 2016 u.s. presidential election, which continues to draw media and regulatory scrutiny of our actions with respect to such content. our brand may also be negatively affected by the actions of people that are hostile or inappropriate to other people, by accounts impersonating other people, by accounts identified as spam, by use or perceived use, directly or indirectly, of our products or services by people (including governments and government-sponsored actors) to disseminate information that may be viewed as misleading (or intended to manipulate people's opinions), by accounts introducing excessive amounts of spam on our platform, by third parties obtaining control over people's accounts or by other security or cybersecurity incidents. for example, certain actions taken by a social media marketing company in the past to sell followers and engagement, which were in violation of our policies, drew media and regulatory scrutiny on us. maintaining and enhancing our brand may require us to make substantial investments and these investments may not achieve the desired goals. 15 table of contents additionally, we and our executive leadership receive a high degree of media coverage around the world. negative publicity about our company or executives, including about the quality and reliability of our products or of content shared on our platform, changes to our products, policies and services, our privacy, data protection, policy enforcement and security practices (including actions taken or not taken with respect to certain accounts or reports regarding government surveillance), litigation, regulatory activity, the actions of certain accounts (including actions taken by prominent accounts on our platform or the dissemination of information that may be viewed as misleading or manipulative), even if inaccurate, could adversely affect our reputation. such negative publicity and reputational harm could adversely affect mdau and their confidence in and loyalty to our platform and result in decreased revenue or increased costs to reestablish our brand, which would adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. spam and fake accounts could diminish the experience on our platform, which could damage our reputation and deter people from using our products and services. spam on twitter refers to a range of abusive activities that are prohibited by our terms of service and is generally defined as unsolicited, repeated actions that negatively impact other people with the general goal of drawing attention to a given account, site, product or idea. this includes posting large numbers of unsolicited mentions of an account, duplicate tweets, malicious automation, misleading links (e.g., to malware or click-jacking pages) or other false or misleading content, and aggressively following and un-following accounts, adding accounts to lists, sending invitations, retweeting and liking tweets to inappropriately attract attention. our terms of service also prohibit the creation of serial or bulk accounts, both manually or using automation, for disruptive or abusive purposes, such as to tweet spam or to artificially inflate the popularity of accounts seeking to promote themselves on twitter. although we continue to invest resources to reduce spam and fake accounts on twitter, which includes our investments to improve the health of the public conversation on twitter, we expect spammers will continue to seek ways to act inappropriately on our platform. in addition, we expect that increases in the number of accounts on our platform will result in increased efforts by spammers to misuse our platform. we continuously combat spam and fake accounts, including by suspending or terminating accounts we believe to be spammers and launching algorithmic changes focused on curbing abusive activities. our actions to combat spam and fake accounts require significant resources and time. if spam and fake accounts increase on twitter, this could hurt our reputation for delivering relevant content or reduce mdau growth rate and mdau engagement and result in continuing operational cost to us. our products may contain errors or our security measures may be breached, resulting in the exposure of private information. our products and services may be subject to attacks that degrade or deny the ability of people to access our products and services. these issues may result in the perception that our products and services are not secure, and people on twitter and advertisers may curtail or stop using our products and services and our business and operating results could be harmed. our products and services involve the storage and transmission of people's and advertisers' information, and security incidents, including those caused by unintentional errors and those intentionally caused by third parties, may expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation, increased security costs and potential liability. we and our third-party service providers experience cyber-attacks of varying degrees on a regular basis. we expect to incur significant costs in an effort to detect and prevent security breaches and other security-related incidents, and we may face increased costs in the event of an actual or perceived security breach or other security-related incident. if an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed, people on twitter and our advertisers may be harmed, lose trust and confidence in us, decrease the use of our products and services or stop using our products and services in their entirety. we may also incur significant legal and financial exposure, including legal claims, higher transaction fees and regulatory fines and penalties. any of these actions could have a material and adverse effect on our business, reputation and operating results. while our insurance policies include liability coverage for certain of these matters, if we experienced a significant security incident, we could be subject to liability or other damages that exceed our insurance coverage. our products and services incorporate complex software and we encourage employees to quickly develop and help us launch new and innovative features. our software, including any open source software that is incorporated into our code, has contained, and may now or in the future contain, errors, bugs or vulnerabilities. for example, in 2019, we discovered, and took steps to remediate, bugs that primarily affected our legacy map product, impacting our ability to target ads and share data with our measurement and ad partners. we also discovered that certain personalization and data settings were not operating as expected. as was the case with these errors, errors in our software code may only be discovered after the product or service has been released. errors, vulnerabilities, or other design defects within the software on which we rely may result in a negative experience for people on twitter, partners and advertisers who use our products, delay product introductions or enhancements, result in targeting, measurement, or billing errors, compromise our ability to protect the data of the people on twitter and/or our intellectual property or lead to reductions in our ability to provide some or all of our services. any errors, bugs or vulnerabilities discovered in our code after release could result in damage to our reputation, loss of accounts, loss of content or platform partners, loss of advertisers or advertising revenue or liability for damages or other relief sought in lawsuits, regulatory inquiries or other proceedings, any of which could adversely impact our business and operating results. 16 table of contents our products operate in conjunction with, and we are dependent upon, third-party products and components across a broad ecosystem. if there is a security vulnerability, error, or other bug in one of these third-party products or components and if there is a security exploit targeting them, we could face increased costs, liability claims, reduced revenue, or harm to our reputation or competitive position. the natural sunsetting of third-party products and operating systems that we use requires that our infrastructure teams reallocate time and attention to migration and updates, during which period potential security vulnerabilities could be exploited. we also work with third-party vendors to process credit card payments by our customers and are subject to payment card association operating rules. unauthorized parties may also gain access to twitter handles and passwords without attacking twitter directly and, instead, access people's accounts by using credential information from other recent breaches, using malware on victim machines that are stealing passwords for all sites, or a combination of both. in addition, some of our developers or other partners, such as third-party applications to which people have given permission to tweet on their behalf, may receive or store information provided by us or by people on twitter through mobile or web applications integrated with us. if these third parties or developers fail to adopt or adhere to adequate data security practices, or in the event of a breach of their networks, our data or data of people on twitter may be improperly accessed, used, or disclosed. unauthorized parties have obtained, and may in the future obtain, access to our data, data of people on twitter or our advertisers' data. any systems failure or actual or perceived compromise of our security that results in the unauthorized access to or release of data of people on twitter or our advertisers' data, such as credit card data, could significantly limit the adoption of our products and services, as well as harm our reputation and brand and, therefore, our business. our security measures may also be breached due to employee error, malfeasance or otherwise. additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees, people on twitter, or advertisers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data, data of people on twitter or advertisers' data, or may otherwise obtain access to such data or accounts. since people on twitter and our advertisers may use twitter to establish and maintain online identities, unauthorized communications from twitter accounts that have been compromised may damage their personal security, reputations and brands as well as our reputation and brand. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. our international operations are subject to increased challenges and risks. we have offices around the world and our products and services are available in multiple languages. however, our ability to manage our business, monetize our products and services and conduct our operations internationally requires considerable management attention and resources and is subject to the particular challenges of supporting a rapidly growing business in an environment of multiple languages, cultures, customs, legal and regulatory systems, alternative dispute systems and commercial markets. our international operations have required and will continue to require us to invest significant funds and other resources. operating internationally subjects us to new risks and may increase risks that we currently face, including risks associated with: recruiting and retaining talented and capable employees in foreign countries and maintaining our company culture across all of our offices; providing our products and services and operating across a significant distance, in different languages and among different cultures, including the potential need to modify our products, services, content and features to ensure that they are culturally relevant in different countries; increased competition from largely regional websites, mobile applications and services that provide real-time communications and have strong positions in particular countries, which have expanded and may continue to expand their geographic footprint; differing and potentially lower levels of mdau growth, engagement and ad engagement in new and emerging geographies; different levels of advertiser demand, including fluctuations in advertiser demand due to regional activities and political upheaval; greater difficulty in monetizing our products and services, including costs to adapt our products and services in light of the manner in which people access twitter in such jurisdictions, such as the use of feature phones in certain emerging markets such as india and pakistan, and challenges related to different levels of internet access or mobile device adoption in different jurisdictions; compliance with applicable foreign laws and regulations, including laws and regulations with respect to privacy, data protection, data localization, data security, taxation, consumer protection, copyright, fake news, hate speech, spam and content, and the risk of penalties to the people who use our products and services and individual members of management if our practices are deemed to be out of compliance; 17 table of contents actions by governments or others to restrict access to twitter or censor content on twitter, such as how domestic internet service providers in china have blocked access to twitter and other countries, including iran, libya, pakistan, turkey and syria, have intermittently restricted access to twitter, whether these actions are taken for political reasons, in response to decisions we make regarding governmental requests or content generated by people on twitter, or otherwise; longer payment cycles in some countries; credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; operating in jurisdictions that do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the united states; compliance with anti-bribery laws including, without limitation, compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, including by our business partners; currency exchange rate fluctuations, as we conduct business in currencies other than u.s. dollars but report our operating results in u.s. dollars and any foreign currency forward contracts into which we enter may not mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations; foreign exchange controls that might require significant lead time in setting up operations in certain geographic territories and might prevent us from repatriating cash earned outside the united states; political and economic instability in some countries; double taxation of our international earnings and potentially adverse tax consequences due to changes in the tax laws of the united states or the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate; and higher costs of doing business internationally, including increased accounting, travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs. if our revenue from our international operations, and particularly from our operations in the countries and regions where we have focused our spending, does not exceed the expense of establishing and maintaining these operations, our business and operating results will suffer. in addition, mdau may grow more rapidly than revenue in international regions where our monetization of our products and services is not as developed. for example, average mdau outside the united states constituted 80% of our average mdau in the three months ended december 31, 2019, but our international revenue, as determined based on the billing location of our customers, was approximately 41% of our consolidated revenue in the three months ended december 31, 2019. our inability to successfully expand our business, manage the complexity of our global operations or monetize our products and services internationally could adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. our business is subject to complex and evolving u.s. and foreign laws and regulations. these laws and regulations are subject to change and uncertain interpretation, and could result in claims, changes to our business practices, monetary penalties, increased cost of operations or declines in mdau growth, mdau engagement or ad engagement, or otherwise harm our business. we are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the united states and abroad that involve matters central to our business, including privacy, data protection, security, rights of publicity, content regulation, intellectual property, competition, protection of minors, consumer protection, credit card processing and taxation. many of these laws and regulations are still evolving and being tested in courts. as a result, it is possible that these laws and regulations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from country to country and inconsistent with our current policies and practices and in ways that could harm our business, particularly in the new and rapidly evolving industry in which we operate. additionally, the introduction of new products or services may subject us to additional laws and regulations. 18 table of contents from time to time, governments, regulators and others have expressed concerns about whether our products, services or practices compromise the privacy or data protection rights of the people on twitter and others. while we strive to comply with applicable privacy and data protection laws and regulations, our privacy policies and other obligations we may have with respect to privacy and data protection, the failure or perceived failure to comply may result, and in some cases has resulted, in inquiries and other proceedings or actions against us by governments, regulators or others. a number of proposals have recently been adopted or are currently pending before federal, state and foreign legislative and regulatory bodies that could significantly affect our business. for example, the california consumer privacy act ("ccpa") went into effect on january 1, 2020. the ccpa requires, among other things, covered companies to provide new disclosures to california consumers and afford such consumers new abilities to opt-out of certain sales of personal information. similar legislation has been proposed or adopted in other states. aspects of the ccpa and these other state laws and regulations, as well as their enforcement, remain unclear, and we may be required to modify our practices in an effort to comply with them. moreover, foreign data protection, privacy, consumer protection, content regulation and other laws and regulations are often more restrictive or burdensome than those in the united states. for example, the gdpr imposes stringent operational requirements for entities processing personal information and significant penalties for non-compliance, including fines of up to 20 million or 4% of total worldwide revenue, whichever is higher. additionally, we rely on a variety of legal bases to transfer certain personal information outside of the european economic area, including the eu-u.s. privacy shield framework, the swiss-u.s. privacy shield framework, and eu standard contractual clauses, or sccs. these legal bases all have been, and may be, the subject of legal challenges and they may be modified or invalidated. this could result in us being required to implement duplicative, and potentially expensive, information technology infrastructure and business operations in europe or could limit our ability to collect or process personal information in europe. any of these changes with respect to eu data protection law could disrupt our business. further, following a referendum in june 2016 in which united kingdom ( uk ) voters approved an exit from the eu, the uk officially left the eu on january 31, 2020, with a transitional period set to end on december 31, 2020 (often referred to as "brexit"). the effect of brexit will depend on agreements, if any, the uk makes to retain access to eu markets. brexit creates economic and legal uncertainty in the region and could adversely affect the tax, currency, operational, legal and regulatory regimes to which our business is subject. brexit may adversely affect our revenues and subject us to new regulatory costs and challenges, in addition to other adverse effects that we are unable effectively to anticipate. the uk implemented a data protection act, effective in may 2018 and statutorily amended in 2019, that substantially implements the gdpr. brexit has created uncertainty with regard to the requirements for data transfers between the uk and the eu and other jurisdictions. legislative changes in the united states, at both the federal and state level, that could impose new obligations in areas such as privacy and liability for copyright infringement or content by third parties such as various congressional efforts to restrict the scope of the protections available to online platforms under section 230 of the communications decency act, and our current protections from liability for third-party content in the united states could decrease or change. additionally, recent amendments to u.s. patent laws may affect the ability of companies, including us, to protect their innovations and defend against claims of patent infringement. in april 2019, the eu passed the directive on copyright in the digital single market (the eu copyright directive), which expands the liability of online platforms for user-generated content. each eu member state has two years to implement it. the eu copyright directive may increase our costs of operations, our liability for user-generated content, and our litigation costs. additionally, we have relationships with third parties that perform a variety of functions such as payments processing, tokenization, vaulting, currency conversion, fraud prevention and data security audits. the laws and regulations related to online payments and other activities of these third parties, including those relating to the processing of data, are complex, subject to change, and vary across different jurisdictions in the united states and globally. as a result, we may be required to spend significant time, effort and expense to comply with applicable laws and regulations. any failure or claim of our failure to comply, or any failure or claim of failure by the above-mentioned third parties to comply, could increase our costs or could result in liabilities. additionally, because we accept payment via credit cards, we are subject to global payments industry operating rules and certification requirements governed by pci security standards council, including the payment card industry data security standard. any failure by us to comply with these operating rules and certification requirements also may result in costs and liabilities and may result in us losing our ability to accept certain payment cards. the u.s. and foreign laws and regulations described above, as well as any associated inquiries or investigations or any other regulatory actions, may be costly to comply with and may delay or impede the development of new products and services, result in negative publicity, increase our operating costs, require significant management time and attention, and subject us to remedies that may result in a loss of mdau or advertisers and otherwise harm our business, including fines or demands or orders that we modify or cease existing business practices. we currently allow use of our platform without the collection of extensive personal information. we may experience additional pressure to expand our collection of personal information in order to comply with new and additional legal or regulatory demands or we may independently decide to do so. if we obtain such additional personal information, we may be subject to additional legal or regulatory obligations. 19 table of contents regulatory investigations and settlements could cause us to incur additional expenses or change our business practices in a manner material and adverse to our business. from time to time we notify the irish data protection commission and other regulators of certain personal data breaches and privacy or data protection issues, and are subject to inquiries and investigations regarding various aspects of our regulatory compliance. we are currently the subject of inquiries by the irish data protection commission with respect to our compliance with the gdpr. in the past, we have been subject to regulatory investigations, and we expect to continue to be subject to regulatory scrutiny as our business grows and awareness of our brand increases. in march 2011, to resolve an investigation into various incidents, we entered into a settlement agreement with the ftc that, among other things, required us to establish an information security program designed to protect non-public consumer information and also requires that we obtain biennial independent security assessments. the obligations under the settlement agreement remain in effect until the later of march 2, 2031, or the date 20 years after the date, if any, on which the u.s. government or the ftc files a complaint in federal court alleging any violation of the order. we expect to continue to be the subject of regulatory inquiries, investigations and audits in the future by the ftc and other regulators around the world. it is possible that a regulatory inquiry, investigation or audit could cause us to incur substantial fines and costs, result in reputational harm, prevent us from offering certain products, services, features or functionalities, require us to change our policies or practices, divert management and other resources from our business, or otherwise adversely impact our business. violation of existing or future regulatory orders, settlements or consent decrees could subject us to substantial fines and other penalties that would adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. we may face lawsuits or incur liability as a result of content published or made available through our products and services. we have faced and will continue to face claims relating to content that is published or made available through our products and services or third-party products or services. in particular, the nature of our business exposes us to claims related to defamation, intellectual property rights, rights of publicity and privacy, illegal content, misinformation, content regulation and personal injury torts. the laws relating to the liability of providers of online products or services for activities of the people who use them remains somewhat unsettled, both within the united states and internationally. this risk may be enhanced in certain jurisdictions outside the united states where we may be less protected under local laws than we are in the united states. for example, we are subject to legislation in germany that may impose significant fines for failure to comply with certain content removal and disclosure obligations. other countries, including singapore, india, australia, and the united kingdom, have implemented or are considering similar legislation imposing penalties for failure to remove certain types of content. in addition, the public nature of communications on our platform exposes us to risks arising from the creation of impersonation accounts intended to be attributed to people on twitter or our advertisers. we could incur significant costs investigating and defending these claims. if we incur material costs or liability as a result of these occurrences, our business, financial condition and operating results would be adversely impacted. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services and brand. intellectual property rights are important assets of our business and we seek protection for such rights as appropriate. to establish and protect our trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, and patents as well as restrictions in confidentiality, license and intellectual property assignment agreements we enter into with our employees, consultants and third parties. various circumstances and events outside of our control, however, pose threats to our intellectual property rights. we may fail to obtain effective intellectual property protection, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are available, or such laws may provide only limited protection. also, the efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient or effective, and any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged, circumvented, infringed or misappropriated which could result in them being narrowed in scope or declared invalid or unenforceable. there can be no assurance our intellectual property rights will be sufficient to protect against others offering products or services that are substantially similar to ours and compete with our business. we rely on restrictions on the use and disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information contained in agreements we sign with our employees, contractors, and other third parties to limit and control access to and disclosure of our trade secrets and confidential information. these agreements may be breached, or this intellectual property may otherwise be disclosed or become known to our competitors, including through hacking or theft, which could cause us to lose any competitive advantage resulting from these trade secrets and proprietary information. we are pursuing registration of trademarks and domain names in the united states and in certain jurisdictions outside of the united states. effective protection of trademarks and domain names is expensive and difficult to maintain, both in terms of application and registration costs as well as the costs of defending and enforcing those rights. we may be required to protect our rights in an increasing number of countries, a process that is expensive and may not be successful or which we may not pursue in every country in which our products and services are distributed or made available. 20 table of contents we are party to numerous agreements that grant licenses to third parties to use our intellectual property. for example, many third parties distribute their content through twitter, or embed twitter content in their applications or on their websites, and make use of our trademarks in connection with their services. we have a policy designed to assist third parties in the proper use of our trademarks, and an internal team dedicated to enforcing this policy and protecting our brand. this team routinely reviews reports of improper and unauthorized use of the twitter trademarks and issues takedown notices or initiates discussions with the third parties to correct the issues. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to protect against the unauthorized use of our brand or trademarks. if the licensees of our trademarks are not using our trademarks properly and we fail to maintain and enforce our trademark rights, we may limit our ability to protect our trademarks which could result in diminishing the value of our brand or in our trademarks being declared invalid or unenforceable. there is also a risk that one or more of our trademarks could become generic, which could result in such trademark being declared invalid or unenforceable. for example, there is a risk that the word tweet could become so commonly used that it becomes synonymous with any short comment posted publicly on the internet, and if this happens, we could lose protection of this trademark. we also seek to obtain patent protection for some of our technology. we may be unable to obtain patent protection for our technologies. even if patents are issued from our patent applications, which is not certain, our existing patents, and any patents that may be issued in the future, may not provide us with competitive advantages or distinguish our products and services from those of our competitors. in addition, any patents may be contested, circumvented, or found unenforceable or invalid, and we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing or otherwise violating them. effective protection of patent rights is expensive and difficult to maintain, both in terms of application and maintenance costs, as well as the costs of defending and enforcing those rights. our innovator's patent agreement, or ipa, also can limit our ability to prevent infringement of our patents. in may 2013, we implemented the ipa, which we enter into with our employees and consultants, including our founders. the ipa, which applies to our current and future patents, allows us to assert our patents defensively. the ipa also allows us to assert our patents offensively with the permission of the inventors of the applicable patent. under the ipa, an assertion of claims is considered to be for a defensive purpose if the claims are asserted: (i) against an entity that has filed, maintained, threatened or voluntarily participated in a patent infringement lawsuit against us or any people on twitter, or any of our affiliates, customers, suppliers or distributors; (ii) against an entity that has used its patents offensively against any other party in the past ten years, so long as the entity has not instituted the patent infringement lawsuit defensively in response to a patent litigation threat against the entity; or (iii) otherwise to deter a patent litigation threat against us or people on twitter, or any of our affiliates, customers, suppliers or distributors. in addition, the ipa provides that the above limitations apply to any future owner or exclusive licensee of any of our patents, which could limit our ability to sell or license our patents to third parties. in this case, while we may be able to claim protection of our intellectual property under other rights (such as trade secrets or contractual obligations with our employees not to disclose or use confidential information), we may be unable to assert our patent rights against third parties that we believe are infringing our patents, even if such third parties are developing products and services that compete with our products and services. for example, in the event that an inventor of one of our patents goes to work for another company and that company uses the inventor's patented invention to compete with us, we would not be able to assert that patent against such other company unless the assertion of the patent right is for a defensive purpose since it would be unlikely the employee would consent to offensive use of the patent against his or her current employer. in such event, we would need to rely on trade secret protection or the contractual obligation of the inventor to us not to disclose or use our confidential information. in addition, the terms of the ipa could affect our ability to monetize our intellectual property portfolio. significant impairments of our intellectual property rights, and limitations on our ability to assert our intellectual property rights against others, could harm our business and our ability to compete. also, obtaining, maintaining and enforcing our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property would adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. 21 table of contents we are currently, and expect to be in the future, party to intellectual property rights claims that are expensive and time consuming to defend, and, if resolved adversely, would adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. companies in the internet, technology and media industries are subject to litigation based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation or other violations of intellectual property rights. many companies in these industries, including many of our competitors, have substantially larger patent and intellectual property portfolios than we do, which could make us a target for litigation as we may not be able to assert counterclaims against parties that sue us for patent, or other intellectual property infringement. in addition, various non-practicing entities that own patents and other intellectual property rights often attempt to assert claims in order to extract value from technology companies. from time to time we receive claims from third parties which allege that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights. further, from time to time we may introduce new products, product features and services, including in areas where we currently do not have an offering, which could increase our exposure to patent and other intellectual property claims from competitors and non-practicing entities. in addition, although our standard terms and conditions for our promoted products and public apis do not provide advertisers and platform partners with indemnification for intellectual property claims against them, some of our agreements with advertisers, content partners, platform partners and data partners require us to indemnify them for certain intellectual property claims against them, which could require us to incur considerable costs in defending such claims, and may require us to pay significant damages in the event of an adverse ruling. such advertisers, content partners, platform partners and data partners may also discontinue use of our products, services and technologies as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenue and adversely impact our business. we presently are involved in a number of intellectual property lawsuits, and as we face increasing competition and develop new products, we expect the number of patent and other intellectual property claims against us may grow. there may be intellectual property or other rights held by others, including issued or pending patents, that cover significant aspects of our products and services, and we cannot be sure that we are not infringing or violating, and have not infringed or violated, any third-party intellectual property rights or that we will not be held to have done so or be accused of doing so in the future. any claim or litigation alleging that we have infringed or otherwise violated intellectual property or other rights of third parties, with or without merit, and whether or not settled out of court or determined in our favor, could be time-consuming and costly to address and resolve, and could divert the time and attention of our management and technical personnel. some of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do and are able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation to a greater degree and for longer periods of time than we could. the outcome of any litigation is inherently uncertain, and there can be no assurances that favorable final outcomes will be obtained in all cases. in addition, plaintiffs may seek, and we may become subject to, preliminary or provisional rulings in the course of any such litigation, including potential preliminary injunctions requiring us to cease some or all of our operations. we may decide to settle such lawsuits and disputes on terms that are unfavorable to us. similarly, if any litigation to which we are a party is resolved adversely, we may be subject to an unfavorable judgment that may not be reversed upon appeal. the terms of such a settlement or judgment may require us to cease some or all of our operations or pay substantial amounts to the other party. in addition, we may have to seek a license to continue practices found to be in violation of a third-party's rights. if we are required, or choose to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, such arrangements may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, and may significantly increase our operating costs and expenses. as a result, we may also be required to develop or procure alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense or discontinue use of the technology. an unfavorable resolution of the disputes and litigation referred to above would adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. we have incurred significant operating losses in the past, and we may not be able to maintain profitability or accurately predict fluctuations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. in the past we have incurred significant operating losses. while we were profitable on a gaap basis for 2018 and 2019, our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and will fluctuate in the future. as a result, our past quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicators of future performance. our operating results in any given quarter can be influenced by numerous factors, many of which we are unable to predict or are outside of our control, including: our ability to attract and retain mdau, advertisers, content partners and platform partners; the occurrence of planned significant events, such as major sporting events, political elections, or awards shows, or unplanned significant events, such as natural disasters and political revolutions, as well as seasonality which may differ from our expectations; the pricing of our advertising services or data licensing, and our ability to maintain or improve revenue and margins; the development and introduction of new products or services, changes in features of existing products or services or de-emphasis or termination of existing products, product features or services; the actions of our competitors; increases in research and development, marketing and sales and other operating expenses that we may incur to grow and expand our operations and to remain competitive, including stock-based compensation expense and costs related to our technology infrastructure; 22 table of contents costs related to the acquisition of businesses, talent, technologies or intellectual property, including potentially significant amortization costs; system failures resulting in the inaccessibility of our products and services; actual or perceived breaches of security or privacy, and the costs associated with remediating any such breaches; adverse litigation judgments, settlements or other litigation-related costs, and the fees associated with investigating and defending claims; changes in the legislative or regulatory environment, including with respect to security, tax, privacy, data protection, or content, or enforcement by government regulators, including fines, orders or consent decrees; changes in reserves or other non-cash credits or charges, such as releases of deferred tax assets valuation allowance, impairment charges or purchase accounting adjustments; changes in our expected estimated useful life of property and equipment and intangible assets; fluctuations in currency exchange rates and changes in the proportion of our revenue and expenses denominated in foreign currencies; changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles; and changes in global or regional business or macroeconomic conditions. given the rapidly evolving markets in which we compete, our historical operating results may not be useful to you in predicting our future operating results. if our revenue growth rate slows, we expect that the seasonality in our business may become more pronounced and may in the future cause our operating results to fluctuate. for example, advertising spending is traditionally seasonally strong in the fourth quarter of each year, and we believe that this seasonality affects our quarterly results, which generally reflect higher sequential advertising revenue growth from the third to fourth quarter compared to sequential advertising revenue growth from the fourth quarter to the subsequent first quarter. additionally, certain new revenue products or product features may carry higher costs relative to our other products, which may decrease our margins, and we may incur increased costs to scale our operations if mdau and engagement on our platform increase. if we are unable to generate adequate revenue growth and to manage our expenses, we may incur significant losses in future periods and may not be able to maintain profitability. many of our products and services contain open source software, and we license some of our software through open source projects, which may pose particular risks to our proprietary software, products, and services in a manner that could adversely impact our business. we use open source software in our products and services and will use open source software in the future. in addition, we regularly contribute software source code to open source projects under open source licenses or release internal software projects under open source licenses, and anticipate doing so in the future. the terms of many open source licenses to which we are subject have not been interpreted by u.s. or foreign courts, and there is a risk that open source software licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to provide or distribute our products or services. additionally, under some open source licenses, if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, third parties may claim ownership of, or demand release of, the open source software or derivative works that we developed using such software, which could include our proprietary source code. such third parties may also seek to enforce the terms of the applicable open source license through litigation which, if successful, could require us to make our proprietary software source code freely available, purchase a costly license or cease offering the implicated products or services unless and until we can re-engineer them to avoid infringement. this re-engineering process could require significant additional research and development resources, and we may not be able to complete it successfully. in addition to risks related to open source license requirements, use of certain open source software may pose greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, since open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of software. any of these risks could be difficult to eliminate or manage, and, if not addressed, could adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. 23 table of contents we rely on assumptions and estimates to calculate certain of our key metrics, and real or perceived inaccuracies in such metrics may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. we calculate our mdau using internal company data that has not been independently verified. while these numbers are based on what we believe to be reasonable calculations for the applicable period of measurement, there are inherent challenges in measuring mdau and mdau engagement. for example, there are a number of false or spam accounts in existence on our platform. we estimate that the average of false or spam accounts during the fourth quarter of 2019 continued to represent fewer than 5% of our mdau during the quarter. however, this estimate is based on an internal review of a sample of accounts and we apply significant judgment in making this determination. as such, our estimation of false or spam accounts may not accurately represent the actual number of such accounts, and the actual number of false or spam accounts could be higher than we have currently estimated. we are continually seeking to improve our ability to estimate the total number of spam accounts and eliminate them from the calculation of our mdau, but we otherwise treat multiple accounts held by a single person or organization as multiple accounts for purposes of calculating our mdau because we permit people and organizations to have more than one account. additionally, some accounts used by organizations are used by many people within the organization. as such, the calculations of our mdau may not accurately reflect the actual number of people or organizations using our platform. we regularly review and may adjust our processes for calculating our internal metrics to improve their accuracy. our measures of mdau growth and engagement may differ from estimates published by third parties or from similarly-titled metrics of our competitors due to differences in methodology. if advertisers, content or platform partners or investors do not perceive our metrics to be accurate representations of our total accounts or mdau engagement, or if we discover material inaccuracies in our metrics, our reputation may be harmed and content partners, advertisers and platform partners may be less willing to allocate their budgets or resources to our products and services, which could negatively affect our business and operating results. further, as our business develops, we may revise or cease reporting metrics if we determine that such metrics are no longer accurate or appropriate measures of our performance. for example, we believe that mdau, and its related growth, are the best ways to measure our success against our objectives and to show the size of our audience and engagement going forward, so we discontinued disclosing monthly active usage after the first quarter of 2019. if investors, analysts or customers do not believe our reported measures, such as mdau, are sufficient or accurately reflect our business, we may receive negative publicity and our operating results may be adversely impacted. acquisitions, divestitures and investments could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and operating results. our success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our products, product features and services, and grow our business in response to changing technologies, demands of people on twitter and our advertisers and competitive pressures. in some circumstances, we may determine to do so through the acquisition of complementary businesses and technologies rather than through internal development, including, for example, our acquisitions of periscope, a live-streaming video mobile application, and mopub, a mobile-focused advertising exchange. the identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions. the risks we face in connection with acquisitions include: diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to addressing acquisition integration challenges; retention of key employees from the acquired company; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization; integration of the acquired company's accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems and processes; the need to implement or improve controls, procedures, and policies at a business that prior to the acquisition may have lacked effective controls, procedures and policies; liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including intellectual property infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities; unanticipated write-offs or charges; and litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, former stockholders or other third parties. our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments, cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally. future acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses, incremental operating expenses or the impairment of goodwill, any of which could adversely impact our financial condition and operating results. 24 table of contents we also make investments in privately-held companies in furtherance of our strategic objectives. many of the instruments in which we invest are non-marketable at the time of our initial investment. we may not realize a return and may recognize a loss on such investments. in certain cases, we have also divested or stopped investing in certain products, including products that we acquired. in these cases, we have needed to and we may in the future need to restructure operations, terminate employees and/or incur other expenses. we may not realize the expected benefits and cost savings of these actions and our operating results may be adversely impacted. if we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. as a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, or the exchange act, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, as amended, or the sarbanes-oxley act, and the listing standards of the new york stock exchange. the sarbanes-oxley act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. in order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we have expended, and anticipate that we will continue to expend, significant resources, including accounting-related costs and significant management oversight. any failure to develop or maintain effective controls, or any difficulties encountered in their implementation or improvement, could cause us to be subject to one or more investigations or enforcement actions by state or federal regulatory agencies, stockholder lawsuits or other adverse actions requiring us to incur defense costs, pay fines, settlements or judgments. any such failures could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial and other information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. in addition, if we are unable to continue to meet these requirements, we may not be able to remain listed on the new york stock exchange. our debt obligations could adversely affect our financial condition. in 2014, we issued $954.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 1.00% convertible senior notes due 2021, or the 2021 notes, in private placements to qualified institutional buyers. in 2018, we issued an additional $1.15 billion in aggregate principal amount of 0.25% convertible senior notes due 2024, which we refer to as the convertible notes when taken together with the 2021 notes, in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers. in december 2019, we issued $700.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 3.875% senior notes due 2027, which we refer to as the 2027 notes or, when taken together with the convertible notes, the notes. as of december 31, 2019, we had $2.80 billion in aggregate principal amount of outstanding notes. as of december 31, 2019, we also had an undrawn unsecured revolving credit facility providing for loans in the aggregate principal amount of $500.0 million. our debt obligations could adversely impact us. for example, these obligations could: require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay principal and interest on debt, including the notes, or to repurchase our notes when required upon the occurrence of certain change of control events or otherwise pursuant to the terms thereof, which will reduce the amount of cash flow available to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, and other business activities require us to use cash and/or issue shares of our common stock to settle any conversion obligations of the convertible notes result in certain of our debt instruments, including the notes, being accelerated or being deemed to be in default if certain terms of default are triggered, such as applicable cross payment default and/or cross-acceleration provisions adversely impact our credit rating, which could increase future borrowing costs limit our future ability to raise funds for capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions or business opportunities, and other general corporate requirements restrict our ability to create or incur liens and enter into sale-leaseback financing transactions increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions with respect to indebtedness other than the notes, increase our exposure to interest rate risk from variable rate indebtedness; dilute our earnings per share as a result of the conversion provisions in the convertible notes and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors. 25 table of contents our ability to meet our payment obligations under our debt instruments depends on our ability to generate significant cash flows in the future. this, to some extent, is subject to market, economic, financial, competitive, legislative, and regulatory factors as well as other factors that are beyond our control. there can be no assurance that our business will generate cash flow from operations, or that additional capital will be available to us, in amounts sufficient to enable us to meet our debt payment obligations and to fund other liquidity needs. additionally, events and circumstances may occur which would cause us to not be able to satisfy applicable draw-down conditions and utilize our revolving credit facility. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows to service our debt payment obligations, we may need to refinance or restructure our debt, sell assets, reduce or delay capital investments, or seek to raise additional capital. if we are unable to implement one or more of these alternatives on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may be unable to meet our debt payment obligations, which would materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, power outages, floods and other catastrophic events, and to interruption by man-made problems such as terrorism. a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire, flood or significant power outage could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. our headquarters and certain of our co-located data center facilities are located in the san francisco bay area, a region known for seismic activity. despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at our data centers could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. in addition, acts of terrorism and other geo-political unrest could cause disruptions in our business. all of the aforementioned risks may be further increased if our disaster recovery plans prove to be inadequate. we have implemented a disaster recovery program, which allows us to move production to a back-up data center in the event of a catastrophe. although this program is functional, we do not currently serve network traffic equally from each data center, so if our primary data center shuts down, there will be a period of time that our products or services, or certain of our products or services, will remain inaccessible or people may experience severe issues accessing our products and services. we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses, including the potential harm to our business that may result from interruptions in our ability to provide our products and services. any such natural disaster or man-made problem could adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. we may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities, which could adversely impact our operating results. our income tax obligations are based in part on our corporate operating structure, including the manner in which we develop, value and use our intellectual property and the scope of our international operations. we are subject to review and audit by tax authorities in the united states (federal and state), ireland, and other foreign jurisdictions and the laws in those jurisdictions are subject to interpretation. tax authorities may disagree with and challenge some of the positions we have taken and any adverse outcome of such an audit could have a negative effect on our financial position and operating results. in addition, our future income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. for example, the legislation commonly referred to as the 2017 tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ) significantly affected u.s. tax law by changing how u.s. income tax is assessed on multinational corporations. the u.s. department of treasury has issued and will continue to issue regulations and interpretive guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the law and impact our results of operations. in addition, the organization for economic cooperation and development (oecd) has published proposals covering a number of issues, including country-by-country reporting, permanent establishment rules, transfer pricing rules, tax treaties and taxation of the digital economy. future tax reform resulting from this development may result in changes to long-standing tax principles, which could adversely affect our effective tax rate or result in higher cash tax liabilities. in 2018, the european commission proposed a series of measures aimed at ensuring a fair and efficient taxation of digital businesses operating within the european union. some countries have unilaterally moved to introduce their own digital service tax ( dst ) to capture tax revenue on digital services more immediately. notably france, italy, austria, the united kingdom and turkey have enacted or will soon enact this tax. such laws would increase our tax obligations in those countries or change the manner in which we operate our business. on june 7, 2019, the ninth circuit court of appeals issued a new opinion in the case of altera corp. v. commissioner, which upheld department of treasury regulations which require related parties in an intercompany cost-sharing arrangement to share expenses related to stock-based compensation. during the year ended december 31, 2019, we evaluated the court's ruling and recorded an increase in the tax provision of $80.0 million. in february 2020, altera corp. filed a petition to appeal the decision with the supreme court of the united states. we will continue to monitor future developments in this case to determine if there will be further impacts to the consolidated financial statements. 26 table of contents if our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. under generally accepted accounting principles in the united states, or gaap, we review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. an adverse change in market conditions or financial results, particularly if such change has the effect of changing one of our critical assumptions or estimates, could result in a change to the estimation of fair value that could result in an impairment charge to our goodwill or intangible assets. any such material charges may have a material and adverse impact on our operating results. our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited. as of december 31, 2019, we had u.s. federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $2.34 billion and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $1.26 billion. as of december 31, 2019, we had federal and state research and development credit carryforwards of $345.2 million and $264.8 million, respectively. under sections 382 and 383 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, if a corporation undergoes an ownership change, the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes, such as research tax credits, to offset its post-change income and taxes may be limited. in general, an ownership change occurs if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by 5% shareholders that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. similar rules may apply under state tax laws. in the event that we have experienced an ownership change, or if we experience one or more ownership changes in the future, then we may be limited in our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax assets to reduce taxes owed on the net taxable income that we earn. any such limitations on the ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax assets could adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. risks related to ownership of our common stock anti-takeover provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and delaware law contain provisions which could have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying, or preventing an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. among other things, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include provisions: creating a classified board of directors whose members serve staggered three-year terms; authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval and may contain voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings; requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; and controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of stockholder meetings. these provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents certain stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of our outstanding common stock not held by such 15% or greater stockholder. any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. 27 table of contents the market price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment. the market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. in addition to the factors discussed in this risk factors section and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k, factors that could cause fluctuations in the market price of our common stock include the following: price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; volatility in the market prices and trading volumes of technology stocks; changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in our industry in particular; sales of shares of our common stock by us or our stockholders; rumors and market speculation involving us or other companies in our industry; failure of securities analysts to maintain coverage of us, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts who follow our company, or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors; the financial or non-financial metric projections we may provide to the public, any changes in those projections or our failure to meet those projections; announcements by us or our competitors of new products or services; the public's reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the sec; actual or anticipated changes in our operating results or fluctuations in our operating results; actual or anticipated developments in our business, our competitors' businesses or the competitive landscape generally; our issuance of shares of our common stock, whether in connection with an acquisition or upon conversion of some or all of our outstanding convertible notes; litigation or regulatory action involving us, our industry or both, or investigations by regulators into our operations or those of our competitors; developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; announced or completed acquisitions of businesses or technologies by us or our competitors; new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidelines, interpretations or principles; any significant change in our management; and general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of our markets. in addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. any securities litigation can result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. we are currently subject to securities litigation and may experience more such litigation following any future periods of volatility. the note hedge and warrant transactions may affect the value of our common stock. concurrent with the issuance of the convertible notes, we entered into note hedge transactions with certain financial institutions, which we refer to as the option counterparties. the note hedge transactions are generally expected to reduce the potential dilution upon any conversion of the convertible notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted convertible notes, as the case may be. we also entered into warrant transactions with the option counterparties. however, the warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect to the extent that the market price of our common stock exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants. 28 table of contents the option counterparties or their respective affiliates may modify their initial hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives contracts with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the convertible notes (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of convertible notes or following any repurchase of convertible notes by us on any fundamental change repurchase date or otherwise). this activity could cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of our common stock. in addition, if any such convertible note hedge and warrant transactions fail to become effective, the option counterparties or their respective affiliates may unwind their hedge positions with respect to our common stock, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. if securities or industry analysts change their recommendations regarding our common stock adversely, the price of our common stock and trading volume could decline. the trading market for our common stock is influenced, to some extent, by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us, our business, our industry, our market or our competitors. if any of the analysts who cover us change their recommendation regarding our common stock adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, the price of our common stock would likely decline. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have operations both within the united states and internationally, and we are exposed to market risks in the ordinary course of our business. these risks include primarily interest rate and foreign exchange risks. interest rate fluctuation risk our investment portfolio mainly consists of short-term fixed income securities, including government and investment-grade debt securities and money market funds. these securities are classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses, net of tax reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive loss. our investment policy and strategy is focused on the preservation of capital and supporting our liquidity requirements. we do not enter into investments for trading or speculative purposes. a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio. based on our investment portfolio balance as of december 31, 2019, a hypothetical increase in interest rates of 100 basis points would result in a decrease of approximately $35.1 million in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities. we currently do not hedge these interest rate exposures. as of december 31, 2019, we had $2.10 billion aggregate principal amount of convertible notes outstanding and $700.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2027 notes outstanding. we carry the notes at face value less amortized discount on the consolidated balance sheet. since each series of notes bears interest at a fixed rate, we have no financial statement risk associated with changes in interest rates. however, the fair value of each series of notes changes when the market price of our stock fluctuates or interest rates change. foreign currency exchange risk transaction exposure we transact business in various foreign currencies and have international revenue, as well as costs denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the euro, british pound, singapore dollar and japanese yen. this exposes us to the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. accordingly, changes in exchange rates, and in particular a continuing strengthening of the u.s. dollar, would negatively affect our revenue and other operating results as expressed in u.s. dollars. we have experienced and will continue to experience fluctuations in our net income as a result of transaction gains or losses related to revaluing and ultimately settling certain asset and liability balances that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entities in which they are recorded. foreign currency gains and losses were immaterial for 2019 and 2018. we currently utilize foreign currency forward contracts with financial institutions to reduce the risk that our earnings may be adversely affected by the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on monetary assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local currency of a subsidiary. these contracts are not designated as hedging instruments. we may in the future enter into other derivative financial instruments if it is determined that such hedging activities are appropriate to further reduce our foreign currency exchange risk. based on our foreign currency exposures from monetary assets and liabilities net of our open hedge position, we estimated that a 10% change in exchange rates against the u.s. dollar would have resulted in a gain or loss of approximately $6.4 million as of december 31, 2019. translation exposure we are also exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as we translate the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries into u.s. dollars in consolidation. if there is a change in foreign currency exchange rates, the translating adjustments resulting from the conversion of our foreign subsidiaries' financial statements into u.s. dollars would result in a gain or loss recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss which is part of stockholders' equity. 53 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, including the section titled management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making a decision to invest in our common stock. the risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only ones we face. if any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. in that event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. risks related to our business and our industry if we fail to grow our user base, or if user engagement or ad engagement on our platform decline, our revenue, business and operating results may be harmed. the size of our user base and our users' level of engagement are critical to our success. we had 288 million average maus in the three months ended december 31, 2014, representing a 20% increase from 241 million average maus in the three months ended december 31, 2013. our financial performance has been and will continue to be significantly determined by our success in growing the number of users and increasing their overall level of engagement on our platform as well as the number of ad engagements. we anticipate that our user growth rate will slow over time as the size of our user base increases. for example, in general, a higher proportion of internet users in the united states uses twitter than internet users in other countries and, in the future, we expect our user growth rate in certain international markets, such as argentina, brazil, france, germany, india and japan, to continue to be higher than our user growth rate in the united states. to the extent our user growth rate slows, our success will become increasingly dependent on our ability to increase levels of ad engagement on twitter. we generate a substantial majority of our revenue based upon engagement by our users with the ads that we display. if people do not perceive our products and services to be useful, reliable and trustworthy, we may not be able to attract users or increase the frequency of their engagement with our platform and the ads that we display. a number of consumer-oriented websites that achieved early popularity have since seen their user bases or levels of engagement decline, in some cases precipitously. there is no guarantee that we will not experience a similar erosion of our user base or engagement levels. a number of factors could potentially negatively affect user growth and engagement, including if: users engage with other products, services or activities as an alternative to ours; influential users, such as world leaders, government officials, celebrities, athletes, journalists, sports teams, media outlets and brands or certain age demographics conclude that an alternative product or service is more relevant; we are unable to convince potential new users of the value and usefulness of our products and services; there is a decrease in the perceived quality of the content generated by our users; we fail to introduce new and improved products or services or if we introduce new or improved products or services that are not favorably received or that negatively affect user engagement; technical or other problems prevent us from delivering our products or services in a rapid and reliable manner or otherwise affect the user experience, including issues with connecting to the internet; users have difficulty installing, updating, or otherwise accessing our products or services on mobile devices as a result of actions by us or third parties that we rely on to distribute our products and deliver our services; we are unable to present users with content that is interesting, useful and relevant to them; 11 users believe that their experience is diminished as a result of the decisions we make with respect to the frequency, relevance and prominence of ads that we display; there are user concerns related to privacy and communication, safety, security or other factors; we are unable to combat spam or other hostile or inappropriate usage on our platform; there are adverse changes in our products or services that are mandated by, or that we elect to make to address, legislation, regulatory authorities or litigation, including settlements or consent decrees; we fail to provide adequate customer service to users; or we do not maintain our brand image or our reputation is damaged. if we are unable to increase our user base, user growth rate or user engagement, or if these metrics decline, our products and services could be less attractive to potential new users, as well as to advertisers and platform partners, which would have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. if our users do not continue to contribute content or their contributions are not valuable to other users, we may experience a decline in the number of users accessing our products and services and user engagement, which could result in the loss of advertisers, platform partners and revenue. our success depends on our ability to provide users of our products and services with valuable content, which in turn depends on the content contributed by our users. we believe that one of our competitive advantages is the quality, quantity and real-time nature of the content on twitter, and that access to unique or real-time content is one of the main reasons users visit twitter. our ability to expand into new international markets depends on the availability of relevant local content in those markets. we seek to foster a broad and engaged user community, and we encourage world leaders, government officials, celebrities, athletes, journalists, sports teams, media outlets and brands to use our products and services to express their views to broad audiences. we also encourage media outlets to use our products and services to distribute their content. if users, including influential users, do not continue to contribute content to twitter, and we are unable to provide users with valuable and timely content, our user base and user engagement may decline. additionally, if we are not able to address user concerns regarding the safety and security of our products and services or if we are unable to successfully prevent abusive or other hostile behavior on our platform, the size of our user base and user engagement may decline. we rely on the sale of advertising services for the substantial majority of our revenue. if we experience a decline in the number of users, user growth rate, or user engagement, including as a result of the loss of world leaders, government officials, celebrities, athletes, journalists, sports teams, media outlets and brands who generate content on twitter, advertisers may not view our products and services as attractive for their marketing expenditures, and may reduce their spending with us which would harm our business and operating results. we generate the substantial majority of our revenue from advertising. the loss of advertising revenue could harm our business. the substantial majority of our revenue is currently generated from third parties advertising on twitter. we generated 89% and 90% of our revenue from advertising in the fiscal years ended december 31, 2013 and 2014, respectively. we generate substantially all of our advertising revenue through the sale of our three promoted products: promoted tweets, promoted accounts and promoted trends. as is common in our industry, our advertisers do not have long-term advertising commitments with us. in addition, many of our advertisers purchase our advertising services through one of several large advertising agency holding companies. advertising agencies and potential new advertisers may view our promoted products as experimental and unproven, and we may need to devote additional time and resources to educate them about our products and services. advertisers also may choose to reach users through our free products and services, instead of our promoted products. advertisers will not continue to do business with us, or they will reduce the prices they are willing to pay to advertise with us, if we do not deliver ads in an effective manner, or if they do not believe that their investment in advertising with us will generate a competitive return relative to alternatives, including online, mobile and traditional advertising platforms. our advertising revenue could be adversely affected by a number of other factors, including: decreases in user engagement with twitter and with the ads on our platform; decreases in the size of our user base or user growth rate; if we are unable to demonstrate the value of our promoted products to advertisers and advertising agencies or if we are unable to measure the value of our promoted products in a manner which advertisers and advertising agencies find useful; 12 if our promoted products are not cost effective or valuable for certain types of advertisers or if we are unable to develop cost effective or valuable advertising services for different types of advertisers; if we are unable to convince advertisers and brands to invest resources in learning to use our products and services and maintaining a brand presence on twitter; our advertisers' ability to optimize their campaigns or measure the results of their campaigns; product or service changes we may make that change the frequency or relative prominence of ads displayed on twitter or that detrimentally impact revenue in the near term with the goal of achieving long term benefits; our inability to increase advertiser demand and inventory; our inability to increase the relevance of ads shown to users; our inability to help advertisers effectively target ads, including as a result of the fact that we do not collect extensive personal information from our users and that we do not have real-time geographic information for all of our users particularly for ads served through our in-app mobile ad exchange; decreases in the cost per ad engagement; failure to effectively monetize our growing international user base, our logged-out audience or our syndicated audience; loss of advertising market share to our competitors; the degree to which users access twitter content through applications that do not contain our ads; any arrangements or other partnerships with third parties to share our revenue; our new advertising strategies, such as television targeting and real-time video clips embedded in tweets, do not gain traction; the impact of new technologies that could block or obscure the display of our ads; adverse legal developments relating to advertising or measurement tools related to the effectiveness of advertising, including legislative and regulatory developments, and developments in litigation; adverse media reports or other negative publicity involving us or other companies in our industry; our inability to create new products and services that sustain or increase the value of our advertising services to both our advertisers and our users; the impact of fraudulent clicks or spam on our promoted products and our users; changes in the way our advertising is priced; and the impact of macroeconomic conditions and conditions in the advertising industry in general. the occurrence of any of these or other factors could result in a reduction in demand for our ads, which may reduce the prices we receive for our ads, either of which would negatively affect our revenue and operating results. if we are unable to compete effectively for users and advertiser spend, our business and operating results could be harmed. competition for users of our products and services is intense. although we have developed a new global platform for public self-expression and conversation in real time, we face strong competition in our business. we compete against many companies to attract and engage users, including companies which have greater financial resources and substantially larger user bases, such as facebook (including instagram), google, linkedin, microsoft and yahoo, which offer a variety of internet and mobile device-based products, services and content. for example, facebook operates a social networking site with significantly more users than twitter and has been introducing features similar to those of twitter. in addition, google may use its strong position in one or more markets to gain a competitive advantage over us in areas in which we operate, including by integrating competing features into products or services they control. as a result, our competitors may draw users towards their products or services and away from ours. this could decrease the growth or engagement of our user base, which, in turn, would negatively affect our business. we also compete against smaller companies, such as sina weibo, line and kakao, each of which is based in asia. 13 we believe that our ability to compete effectively for users depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: the popularity, usefulness, ease of use, performance and reliability of our products and services compared to those of our competitors; the amount, quality and timeliness of content generated by our users; the timing and market acceptance of our products and services; the continued adoption of our products and services internationally; our ability, and the ability of our competitors, to develop new products and services and enhancements to existing products and services; the frequency and relative prominence of the ads displayed by us or our competitors; our ability to establish and maintain relationships with platform partners that integrate with our platform; changes mandated by, or that we elect to make to address, legislation, regulatory authorities or litigation, including settlements and consent decrees, some of which may have a disproportionate effect on us; the application of antitrust laws both in the united states and internationally; government action regulating competition; our ability to attract, retain and motivate talented employees, particularly engineers, designers and product managers; acquisitions or consolidation within our industry, which may result in more formidable competitors; and our reputation and the brand strength relative to our competitors. we also face significant competition for advertiser spend. the substantial majority of our revenue is currently generated through ads on twitter, and we compete against online and mobile businesses, including those referenced above, and traditional media outlets, such as television, radio and print, for advertising budgets. we also compete with advertising networks, exchanges, demand side platforms and other platforms, such as google adsense, doubleclick ad exchange, yahoo ad exchange, aol's ad.com and microsoft media network, for marketing budgets and in the development of the tools and systems for managing and optimizing advertising campaigns. in order to grow our revenue and improve our operating results, we must increase our share of spending on advertising relative to our competitors, many of which are larger companies that offer more traditional and widely accepted advertising products. in addition, some of our larger competitors have substantially broader product or service offerings and leverage their relationships based on other products or services to gain additional share of advertising budgets. we believe that our ability to compete effectively for advertiser spend depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: the size and composition of our user base relative to those of our competitors; our ad targeting capabilities, and those of our competitors; the timing and market acceptance of our advertising services, and those of our competitors; our marketing and selling efforts, and those of our competitors; the pricing for our promoted products relative to the advertising products and services of our competitors; the return our advertisers receive from our advertising services, and those of our competitors; and our reputation and the strength of our brand relative to our competitors. 14 in recent years, there have been significant acquisitions and consolidation by and among our actual and potential competitors. we anticipate this trend of consolidation will continue, which will present heightened competitive challenges for our business. acquisitions by our competitors may result in reduced functionality of our products and services. for example, following facebook's acquisition of instagram, facebook disabled instagram's photo integration with twitter such that instagram photos are no longer viewable within tweets and users are now re-directed to instagram to view instagram photos through a link within a tweet. as a result, our users may be less likely to click on links to instagram photos in tweets, and instagram users may be less likely to tweet or remain active users of twitter. any similar elimination of integration with twitter in the future, whether by facebook or others, may adversely impact our business and operating results. consolidation may also enable our larger competitors to offer bundled or integrated products that feature alternatives to our platform. reduced functionality of our products and services, or our competitors' ability to offer bundled or integrated products that compete directly with us, may cause our user growth, user engagement and ad engagement to decline and advertisers to reduce their spend with us. if we are not able to compete effectively for users and advertiser spend our business and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which makes them difficult to predict. our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and will fluctuate in the future. as a result, our past quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicators of future performance. our operating results in any given quarter can be influenced by numerous factors, many of which we are unable to predict or are outside of our control, including: our ability to grow our user base and user engagement; our ability to attract and retain advertisers and platform partners; the occurrence of planned significant events, such as the world cup, super bowl, champions league final, world series, olympics and the oscars, or unplanned significant events, such as natural disasters and political revolutions; fluctuations in spending by our advertisers, including as a result of seasonality and extraordinary news events, or other factors; changes in the mix of geographic location of our users and advertisers; the number of ad engagements by users; the pricing of our ads and other products and services; the development and introduction of new products or services or changes in features of existing products or services; the impact of competitors or competitive products and services; our ability to maintain or increase revenue; our ability to maintain or improve gross margins and operating margins; increases in research and development, marketing and sales and other operating expenses that we may incur to grow and expand our operations and to remain competitive; stock-based compensation expense; costs related to the acquisition of businesses, talent, technologies or intellectual property, including potentially significant amortization costs; system failures resulting in the inaccessibility of our products and services; breaches of security or privacy, and the costs associated with remediating any such breaches; adverse litigation judgments, settlements or other litigation-related costs, and the fees associated with investigating and defending claims; changes in the legislative or regulatory environment, including with respect to security, privacy or enforcement by government regulators, including fines, orders or consent decrees; 15 fluctuations in currency exchange rates and changes in the proportion of our revenue and expenses denominated in foreign currencies; changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles; and changes in global business or macroeconomic conditions. given our limited operating history and the rapidly evolving markets in which we compete, our historical operating results may not be useful to you in predicting our future operating results. we believe our rapid growth may understate the potential seasonality of our business. as our revenue growth rate slows, we expect that the seasonality in our business may become more pronounced and may in the future cause our operating results to fluctuate. for example, advertising spending is traditionally seasonally strong in the fourth quarter of each year and we believe that this seasonality affects our quarterly results, which generally reflect higher sequential advertising revenue growth from the third to fourth quarter compared to sequential advertising revenue growth from the fourth quarter to the subsequent first quarter. in addition, global economic concerns continue to create uncertainty and unpredictability and add risk to our future outlook. an economic downturn in any particular region in which we do business or globally could result in reductions in advertising revenue, as our advertisers reduce their advertising budgets, and other adverse effects that could harm our operating results. user growth and engagement depend upon effective interoperation with operating systems, networks, devices, web browsers and standards that we do not control. we make our products and services available across a variety of operating systems and through websites. we are dependent on the interoperability of our products and services with popular devices, desktop and mobile operating systems and web browsers that we do not control, such as mac os, windows, android, ios, chrome and firefox. any changes in such systems, devices or web browsers that degrade the functionality of our products and services, make it difficult for our users to access our content, limit our ability to target or measure the effectiveness of ads, impose fees related to our products or services or give preferential treatment to competitive products or services could adversely affect usage of our products and services. further, if the number of platforms for which we develop our product expands, it will result in an increase in our operating expenses. in order to deliver high quality products and services, it is important that our products and services work well with a range of operating systems, networks, devices, web browsers and standards that we do not control. in addition, because a majority of our users access our products and services through mobile devices, we are particularly dependent on the interoperability of our products and services with mobile devices and operating systems. we may not be successful in developing relationships with key participants in the mobile industry or in developing products or services that operate effectively with these operating systems, networks, devices, web browsers and standards. in the event that it is difficult for our users to access and use our products and services, particularly on their mobile devices, our user growth and engagement could be harmed, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 16 if we fail to expand effectively in international markets, our revenue and our business will be harmed. we may not be able to monetize our products and services internationally as effectively as in the united states as a result of competition, advertiser demand, differences in the digital advertising market and digital advertising conventions, as well as differences in the way that users in different countries access or utilize our products and services. for example, most users in emerging markets like india and pakistan use feature phones and communicate via sms messaging, both of which have limited functionality and neither of which may be able to take full advantage of our products and services offered on smartphone or our website or desktop applications. differences in the competitive landscape in international markets may impact our ability to monetize our products and services. for example, in south korea we face intense competition from a messaging service offered by kakao, which offers some of the same communication features as twitter. the existence of a well-established competitor in an international market may adversely affect our ability to increase our user base, attract platform partners and advertisers and monetize our products in such market. we may also experience differences in advertiser demand in international markets. for example, during times of political upheaval, advertisers may choose not to advertise on twitter. certain international markets are also not as familiar with digital advertising in general, or in new forms of digital advertising such as our promoted products. further, we face challenges in providing certain advertising products, features or analytics in certain international markets, such as the european union, due to government regulation. our products and services may also be used differently abroad than in the united states. in particular, in certain international markets where internet access is not as rapid or reliable as in the united states, users tend not to take advantage of certain features of our products and services, such as rich media included in tweets. the limitation of mobile devices of users in emerging and other markets limits our ability to deliver certain features to those users and may limit the ability of advertisers to deliver compelling advertisements to users in these markets which may result in reduced ad engagements which would adversely affect our business and operating results. if our revenue from our international operations, and particularly from our operations in the countries and regions on which we have focused our spending, does not exceed the expense of establishing and maintaining these operations, our business and operating results will suffer. in addition, our user base may expand more rapidly in international regions where we are less successful in monetizing our products and services. as our user base continues to expand internationally, we will need to increase revenue from the activity generated by our international users in order to grow our business. for example, users outside the united states constituted 78% of our average maus in the three months ended december 31, 2014, but our international revenue, as determined based on the billing location of our advertisers, was only 34% of our consolidated revenue in the three months ended december 31, 2014. our inability to successfully expand internationally could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. we have a limited operating history in a new and unproven market for our platform, which makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and may increase the risk that we will not be successful. we have developed a global platform for public self-expression and conversation in real time, and the market for our products and services is relatively new and may not develop as expected, if at all. despite our efforts to reduce barriers to consumption, people who are not our users may not understand the value of our products and services and new users may initially find our product confusing. there may be a perception that our products and services are only useful to users who tweet, or to influential users with large audiences. convincing potential new users of the value of our products and services is critical to increasing our user base and to the success of our business. we have a limited operating history, as we only began to generate revenue in 2009 and we started to sell our promoted products in 2010, which makes it difficult to effectively assess our future prospects or forecast our future results. you should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and challenges we encounter or may encounter in this developing and rapidly evolving market. these risks and challenges include our ability to, among other things: increase our number of users and user engagement; successfully expand our business, especially internationally; develop a reliable, scalable, secure, high-performance technology infrastructure that can efficiently handle increased usage globally; convince advertisers of the benefits of our promoted products compared to alternative forms of advertising; develop and deploy new features, products and services; successfully compete with other companies, some of which have substantially greater resources and market power than us, that are currently in, or may in the future enter, our industry, or duplicate the features of our products and services; 17 attract, retain and motivate talented employees, particularly engineers, designers and product managers; process, store, protect and use personal data in compliance with governmental regulations, contractual obligations and other obligations related to privacy and security; continue to earn and preserve our users' trust, including with respect to their private personal information; and defend ourselves against litigation, regulatory, intellectual property, privacy or other claims. if we fail to educate potential users and potential advertisers about the value of our products and services, if the market for our platform does not develop as we expect or if we fail to address the needs of this market, our business will be harmed. we may not be able to successfully address these risks and challenges or others. failure to adequately address these risks and challenges could harm our business and cause our operating results to suffer. we have incurred significant operating losses in the past, and we may not be able to achieve or subsequently maintain profitability. since our inception, we have incurred significant operating losses, and, as of december 31, 2014, we had an accumulated deficit of $1.57 billion. although our revenue has grown rapidly, increasing from $28.3 million in 2010 to $1.40 billion in 2014, we expect that our revenue growth rate will slow in the future as a result of a variety of factors, including the gradual decline in the growth rate of our user base. we believe that our future revenue growth will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract new users, increase user engagement and ad engagement, increase our brand awareness, compete effectively, maximize our sales efforts, demonstrate a positive return on investment for advertisers, successfully develop new products and services and expand internationally. accordingly, you should not rely on the revenue growth of any prior quarterly or annual period as an indication of our future performance. we also expect our costs to increase in future periods as we continue to expend substantial financial resources on: our technology infrastructure; research and development for our products and services; sales and marketing; domestic and international expansion efforts, including the real estate and facilities costs associated with such expansions; attracting and retaining talented employees; strategic opportunities, including commercial relationships and acquisitions; and general administration, including personnel costs and legal and accounting expenses related to being a public company. these investments may not result in increased revenue or growth in our business. if we are unable to generate adequate revenue growth and to manage our expenses, we may continue to incur significant losses in the future and may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. servicing the notes may require a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow or the ability to raise the funds necessary to satisfy our obligations under the notes, and our future debt may contain limitations on our ability to pay cash upon conversion or repurchase of the notes. in 2014, we issued $935.0 million principal amount of 0.25% convertible senior notes due 2019, or the 2019 notes, and $954.0 million principal amount of 1.00% convertible senior notes due 2021, or the 2021 notes and together with the 2019 notes, the notes, in private placements to qualified institutional buyers. as of december 31, 2014, we had a total par value of $1.89 billion of outstanding notes. holders of the notes will have the right under the indenture for the notes to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change before the relevant maturity date, in each case at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the fundamental change repurchase date. in addition, upon conversion of the notes, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle such conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional shares), we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the notes being converted. moreover, we will be required to repay the notes in cash at their maturity, unless earlier converted or repurchased. 18 our ability to refinance the notes, make cash payments in connection with conversions of the notes or repurchase the notes in the event of a fundamental change will depend on market conditions and our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. we also may not use the cash we have raised through the issuance of the notes in an optimally productive and profitable manner. however, since inception we have incurred significant operating losses and we historically have not been cash flow positive and may not be in the future. as a result, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all, at the time we are required to make repurchases of notes surrendered therefor or pay cash with respect to notes being converted or at their maturity and our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our future operations by increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions and by limiting or prohibiting our ability to obtain additional financing for future capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other purposes. in addition, if we are unable to make cash payments upon conversion of the notes we would be required to issue significant amounts of our common stock, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders. if we do not have sufficient cash to repurchase the notes following a fundamental change, we would be in default under the terms of the notes, which could seriously harm our business. in addition, the terms of the notes do not limit the amount of future indebtedness we may incur. if we incur significantly more debt, this could intensify the risks described above. our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to our products and services on the internet by our users, platform partners and advertisers. if we or our users experience disruptions in internet service or if internet service providers are able to block, degrade or charge for access to our products and services, we could incur additional expenses and the loss of users and advertisers. we depend on the ability of our users, platform partners and advertisers to access the internet. currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant market power in the broadband and internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies, government-owned service providers, device manufacturers and operating system providers, any of whom could take actions that degrade, disrupt or increase the cost of user access to our products or services, which would, in turn, negatively impact our business. for example, access to twitter is blocked in china and was blocked in turkey for a few weeks in the first quarter of 2014. the adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the internet, including laws or practices limiting internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for, or the usage of, our products and services, increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our operating results. we also rely on other companies to maintain reliable network systems that provide adequate speed, data capacity and security to us and our users. as the internet continues to experience growth in the number of users, frequency of use and amount of data transmitted, the internet infrastructure that we and our users rely on may be unable to support the demands placed upon it. the failure of the internet infrastructure that we or our users rely on, even for a short period of time, could undermine our operations and harm our operating results. our new products, services and initiatives and changes to existing products, services and initiatives could fail to attract users, platform partners and advertisers or generate revenue. our ability to increase the size and engagement of our user base, attract advertisers and platform partners and generate revenue will depend in part on our ability to improve existing products and services and create successful new products and services, both independently and in conjunction with third parties. we may introduce significant changes to our existing products and services or develop and introduce new and unproven products and services, including technologies with which we have little or no prior development or operating experience. for example, in 2013, we introduced vine, a mobile application that enables users to create and distribute videos that are up to six seconds in length, and #music, a mobile application that helped users discover new music and artists based on twitter data profiles which we disconnected in 2014. if new or enhanced products or services fail to engage users, platform partners and advertisers, we may fail to attract or retain users or to generate sufficient revenue or operating profit to justify our investments, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. in addition, we have launched and expect to continue to launch strategic initiatives, such as the nielsen twitter tv rating, that do not directly generate revenue but which we believe will enhance our attractiveness to users, platform partners and advertisers. in the future, we may invest in new products, services and initiatives to generate revenue, but there is no guarantee these approaches will be successful. we may not be successful in future efforts to generate revenue from our new products or services. if our strategic initiatives do not enhance our ability to monetize our existing products and services or enable us to develop new approaches to monetization, we may not be able to maintain or grow our revenue or recover any associated development costs and our operating results could be adversely affected. 19 spam could diminish the user experience on our platform, which could damage our reputation and deter our current and potential users from using our products and services. spam on twitter refers to a range of abusive activities that are prohibited by our terms of service and is generally defined as unsolicited, repeated actions that negatively impact other users with the general goal of drawing user attention to a given account, site, product or idea. this includes posting large numbers of unsolicited mentions of a user, duplicate tweets, misleading links (e.g., to malware or click-jacking pages) or other false or misleading content, and aggressively following and un-following accounts, adding users to lists, sending invitations, retweeting and favoriting tweets to inappropriately attract attention. our terms of service also prohibit the creation of serial or bulk accounts, both manually or using automation, for disruptive or abusive purposes, such as to tweet spam or to artificially inflate the popularity of users seeking to promote themselves on twitter. although we continue to invest resources to reduce spam on twitter, we expect spammers will continue to seek ways to act inappropriately on our platform. in addition, we expect that increases in the number of users on our platform will result in increased efforts by spammers to misuse our platform. we continuously combat spam, including by suspending or terminating accounts we believe to be spammers and launching algorithmic changes focused on curbing abusive activities. our actions to combat spam require the diversion of significant time and focus of our engineering team from improving our products and services. if spam increases on twitter, this could hurt our reputation for delivering relevant content or reduce user growth and user engagement and result in continuing operational cost to us. if we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business and operating results could be harmed. we continue to experience rapid growth in our headcount and operations, which will continue to place significant demands on our management, operational and financial infrastructure. as of december 31, 2014, we had 3,638 full-time employees, an increase of approximately 3,500 full-time employees since january 1, 2010. we intend to continue to make substantial investments to expand our operations, research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative organizations, as well as our international operations. we face significant competition for employees, particularly engineers, designers and product managers, from other internet and high-growth companies, which include both publicly-traded and privately-held companies, and we may not be able to hire new employees quickly enough to meet our needs. to attract highly skilled personnel, we have had to offer, and believe we will need to continue to offer, highly competitive compensation packages. in addition, as we have grown, we have significantly expanded our operating lease commitments. as we continue to grow, we are subject to the risks of over-hiring, over-compensating our employees and over-expanding our operating infrastructure, and to the challenges of integrating, developing and motivating a rapidly growing employee base in various countries around the world. in addition, we may not be able to innovate or execute as quickly as a smaller, more efficient organization. if we fail to effectively manage our hiring needs and successfully integrate our new hires, our efficiency and ability to meet our forecasts and our employee morale, productivity and retention could suffer, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. providing our products and services to our users is costly and we expect our expenses to continue to increase in the future as we broaden our user base and increase user engagement, as users increase the amount of content they contribute, and as we develop and implement new features, products and services that require more infrastructure, such as our mobile video product, vine. in addition, our operating expenses, such as our research and development expenses and sales and marketing expenses, have grown rapidly as we have expanded our business. historically, our costs have increased each year due to these factors and we expect to continue to incur increasing costs to support our anticipated future growth. we expect to continue to invest in our infrastructure in order to enable us to provide our products and services rapidly and reliably to users around the world, including in countries where we do not expect significant near-term monetization. continued growth could also strain our ability to maintain reliable service levels for our users and advertisers, develop and improve our operational, financial, legal and management controls, and enhance our reporting systems and procedures. as a public company we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. our expenses may grow faster than our revenue, and our expenses may be greater than we anticipate. managing our growth will require significant expenditures and allocation of valuable management resources. if we fail to achieve the necessary level of efficiency in our organization as it grows, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. 20 our business and operating results may be harmed by a disruption in our service, or by our failure to timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology and infrastructure. one of the reasons people come to twitter is for real-time information. we have experienced, and may in the future experience, service disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, hardware failure, capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of people accessing our products and services simultaneously, computer viruses and denial of service or fraud or security attacks. in march 2014, we experienced unexpected complications that made twitter unavailable for many users for approximately fifteen minutes. we rolled back the change that caused such complications as soon as we identified the issue and twitter fully recovered within approximately forty-five minutes of the initial service disruption. additionally, although we are investing significantly to improve the capacity, capability and reliability of our infrastructure, we are not currently serving traffic equally through our co-located data centers that support our platform. accordingly, in the event of a significant issue at the data center supporting most of our network traffic, some of our products and services may become inaccessible to the public or the public may experience difficulties accessing our products and services. any disruption or failure in our infrastructure could hinder our ability to handle existing or increased traffic on our platform, which could significantly harm our business. as the number of our users increases and our users generate more content, including photos and videos hosted by twitter, we may be required to expand and adapt our technology and infrastructure to continue to reliably store, serve and analyze this content. it may become increasingly difficult to maintain and improve the performance of our products and services, especially during peak usage times, as our products and services become more complex and our user traffic increases. in addition, because we lease our data center facilities, we cannot be assured that we will be able to expand our data center infrastructure to meet user demand in a timely manner, or on favorable economic terms. if our users are unable to access twitter or we are not able to make information available rapidly on twitter, users may seek other channels to obtain the information, and may not return to twitter or use twitter as often in the future, or at all. this would negatively impact our ability to attract users, platform partners and advertisers and increase engagement of our users. we expect to continue to make significant investments to maintain and improve the capacity, capability and reliability of our infrastructure. to the extent that we do not effectively address capacity constraints, upgrade our systems as needed and continually develop our technology and infrastructure to accommodate actual and anticipated changes in technology, our business and operating results may be harmed. action by governments to restrict access to our products and services or censor twitter content could harm our business and operating results. governments have sought, and may in the future seek, to censor content available through our products and services, restrict access to our products and services from their country entirely or impose other restrictions that may affect the accessibility of our products and services for an extended period of time or indefinitely. for example, domestic internet service providers in china have blocked access to twitter, and other countries, including iran, libya, pakistan, turkey and syria, have intermittently restricted access to twitter, and we believe that access to twitter has been blocked in these countries primarily for political reasons. in addition, governments in these or other countries may seek to restrict access to our products and services based on our decisions around user content, providing user information in response to governmental requests, or other matters. in the event that access to our products and services is restricted, in whole or in part, in one or more countries or our competitors are able to successfully penetrate geographic markets that we cannot access, our ability to retain or increase our user base and user engagement may be adversely affected, and our operating results may be harmed. 21 if we are unable to maintain and promote our brand, our business and operating results may be harmed. we believe that maintaining and promoting our brand is critical to expanding our base of users, platform partners and advertisers. maintaining and promoting our brand will depend largely on our ability to continue to provide useful, reliable and innovative products and services, which we may not do successfully. we may introduce new features, products, services or terms of service that users, platform partners or advertisers do not like, which may negatively affect our brand. additionally, the actions of platform partners may affect our brand if users do not have a positive experience using third-party applications or websites integrated with twitter or that make use of twitter content. our brand may also be negatively affected by the actions of users that are hostile or inappropriate to other people, by users impersonating other people, by users identified as spam, by users introducing excessive amounts of spam on our platform or by third parties obtaining control over users' accounts. for example, in april 2013, attackers obtained the credentials to the twitter account of the associated press news service through a phishing attack targeting associated press employees. the attackers posted an erroneous tweet from the associated press account reporting that there had been explosions at the white house, triggering a stock market decline, and focusing media attention on our brand and security efforts. maintaining and enhancing our brand may require us to make substantial investments and these investments may not achieve the desired goals. if we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. negative publicity could adversely affect our business and operating results. we receive a high degree of media coverage around the world. negative publicity about our company, including about our product quality and reliability, changes to our products and services, privacy and security practices, litigation, regulatory activity, the actions of our users or user experience with our products and services, even if inaccurate, could adversely affect our reputation and the confidence in and the use of our products and services. for example, service outages on twitter typically result in widespread media reports. such negative publicity could also have an adverse effect on the size, engagement and loyalty of our user base and result in decreased revenue, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. 22 our future performance depends in part on support from platform partners and data partners. we believe user engagement with our products and services depends in part on the availability of applications and content generated by platform partners. in 2012, we launched twitter cards, which allow platform partners to ensure that whenever they or any user tweets from their websites or applications, the tweet will automatically include rich content like a photo, a video, a sound clip, an article summary or information about a product, and make it instantly accessible to any other user on twitter. twitter cards allow platform partners to create lightweight interactive applications to promote their content or their products. the availability and development of these applications and content depends on platform partners' perceptions and analysis of the relative benefits of developing applications and content for our products and services and we are taking tangible steps to support our developers' efforts to build, grow, and monetize their applications. for instance, in october 2014, we launched fabric, a mobile software development kit that helps developers build more stable applications, gives them the ability to generate revenue through twitter's mobile ad exchange, mopub, and provides them with the ability to tap into twitter's sign-in systems for simpler identity verification.if platform partners focus their efforts on other platforms despite these and other efforts, the availability and quality of applications and content for our products and services may suffer. there is no assurance that platform partners will continue to develop and maintain applications and content for our products and services. if platform partners cease to develop and maintain applications and content for our products and services, user engagement may decline. in addition, we generate revenue from licensing our historical and real-time data to third parties. if any of these relationships are terminated or not renewed, or if we are unable to enter into similar relationships in the future, our operating results could be adversely affected. we focus on product innovation and user engagement rather than short-term operating results. we encourage employees to quickly develop and help us launch new and innovative features. we focus on improving the user experience for our products and services, which includes protecting user privacy, and on developing new and improved products and services for the advertisers on our platform. we prioritize innovation and the experience for users and advertisers on our platform over short-term operating results. we frequently make product and service decisions that may reduce our short-term operating results if we believe that the decisions are consistent with our goals to improve the user experience and performance for advertisers, which we believe will improve our operating results over the long term. these decisions may not be consistent with the short-term expectations of investors and may not produce the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case our user growth and user engagement, our relationships with advertisers and our business and operating results could be harmed. in addition, our focus on the user experience may negatively impact our relationships with our existing or prospective advertisers. this could result in a loss of advertisers, which could harm our revenue and operating results. our international operations are subject to increased challenges and risks. we have offices around the world and our products and services are available in multiple languages. we expect to continue to expand our international operations in the future by opening offices in new jurisdictions and expanding our offerings in new languages. however, we have limited operating history outside the united states, and our ability to manage our business and conduct our operations internationally requires considerable management attention and resources and is subject to the particular challenges of supporting a rapidly growing business in an environment of multiple languages, cultures, customs, legal and regulatory systems, alternative dispute systems and commercial markets. international expansion has required and will continue to require us to invest significant funds and other resources. operating internationally subjects us to new risks and may increase risks that we currently face, including risks associated with: recruiting and retaining talented and capable employees in foreign countries and maintaining our company culture across all of our offices; providing our products and services and operating across a significant distance, in different languages and among different cultures, including the potential need to modify our products, services, content and features to ensure that they are culturally relevant in different countries; increased competition from local websites, mobile applications and services that provide real-time communications, such as sina weibo in china, line in japan and kakao in south korea, which have expanded and may continue to expand their geographic footprint; differing and potentially lower levels of user growth, user engagement and ad engagement in new and emerging geographies; different levels of advertiser demand; greater difficulty in monetizing our products and services; 23 compliance with applicable foreign laws and regulations, including laws and regulations with respect to privacy, consumer protection, spam and content, and the risk of penalties to our users and individual members of management if our practices are deemed to be out of compliance; longer payment cycles in some countries; credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; operating in jurisdictions that do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the united states; compliance with anti-bribery laws including, without limitation, compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, including by our business partners; currency exchange rate fluctuations; foreign exchange controls that might require significant lead time in setting up operations in certain geographic territories and might prevent us from repatriating cash earned outside the united states; political and economic instability in some countries; double taxation of our international earnings and potentially adverse tax consequences due to changes in the tax laws of the united states or the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate; and higher costs of doing business internationally, including increased accounting, travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs. if we are unable to manage the complexity of our global operations successfully, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. our products and services may contain undetected software errors, which could harm our business and operating results. our products and services incorporate complex software and we encourage employees to quickly develop and help us launch new and innovative features. our software, including any open source software that is incorporated into our code, has contained, and may now or in the future contain, errors, bugs or vulnerabilities. for example, in march 2014, we were alerted to, and fixed, a bug in our system that, for approximately 94,000 protected accounts under rare circumstances, allowed non-approved followers to receive protected tweets via sms or push notifications since november 2013. additionally, in december 2014, we experienced a brief service outage during which twitter was inaccessible as a result of a software bug in one of our infrastructure components. some errors in our software code may only be discovered after the product or service has been released. any errors, bugs or vulnerabilities discovered in our code after release could result in damage to our reputation, loss of users, loss of platform partners, loss of advertisers or advertising revenue or liability for damages, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. 24 our business is subject to complex and evolving u.s. and foreign laws and regulations. these laws and regulations are subject to change and uncertain interpretation, and could result in claims, changes to our business practices, monetary penalties, increased cost of operations or declines in user growth, user engagement or ad engagement, or otherwise harm our business. we are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the united states and abroad that involve matters central to our business, including privacy, rights of publicity, data protection, content regulation, intellectual property, competition, protection of minors, consumer protection, credit card processing and taxation. many of these laws and regulations are still evolving and being tested in courts and could be interpreted or applied in ways that could harm our business, particularly in the new and rapidly evolving industry in which we operate. the introduction of new products or services may subject us to additional laws and regulations. in addition, foreign data protection, privacy, consumer protection, content regulation and other laws and regulations are often more restrictive than those in the united states. in particular, the european union and its member states traditionally have taken broader views as to types of data that are subject to privacy and data protection, and have imposed greater legal obligations on companies in this regard. a number of proposals are pending before federal, state and foreign legislative and regulatory bodies that could significantly affect our business. for example, regulation relating to the 1995 european union data protection directive is currently being considered by european legislative bodies that may include more stringent operational requirements for entities processing personal information and significant penalties for non-compliance. additionally, a european parliament inquiry has recently indicated that it will recommend suspension of the eu u.s. safe harbor framework as part of this regulation. we rely upon the eu u.s. safe harbor framework to transfer certain personal information of european union residents to the united states, and revocation of the safe harbor framework could require us to create duplicative, and potentially expensive, information technology infrastructure and business operations in europe or limit our ability to collect and use personal information collected in europe. any of these could disrupt our business. similarly, there have been a number of recent legislative proposals in the united states, at both the federal and state level, that would impose new obligations in areas such as privacy and liability for copyright infringement by third parties. the u.s. government, including the ftc and the department of commerce, has announced that it is reviewing the need for greater regulation for the collection of information concerning user behavior on the internet, including regulation aimed at restricting certain online tracking and targeted advertising practices. additionally, recent amendments to u.s. patent laws may affect the ability of companies, including us, to protect their innovations and defend against claims of patent infringement. we currently allow use of our platform without the collection of extensive personal information, such as age. we may experience additional pressure to expand our collection of personal information in order to comply with new and additional regulatory demands or we may independently decide to do so. having additional personal information may subject us to additional regulation. further, it is difficult to predict how existing laws and regulations will be applied to our business and the new laws and regulations to which we may become subject, and it is possible that they may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from country to country and inconsistent with our current policies and practices. these existing and proposed laws and regulations can be costly to comply with and can delay or impede the development of new products and services, result in negative publicity, significantly increase our operating costs, require significant time and attention of management and technical personnel and subject us to inquiries or investigations, claims or other remedies, including fines or demands that we modify or cease existing business practices. regulatory investigations and settlements could cause us to incur additional expenses or change our business practices in a manner materially adverse to our business. we have been subject to regulatory investigations in the past, and expect to continue to be subject to regulatory scrutiny as our business grows and awareness of our brand increases. in march 2011, to resolve an investigation into various incidents, we entered into a settlement agreement with the ftc that, among other things, requires us to establish an information security program designed to protect non-public consumer information and also requires that we obtain biennial independent security assessments. the obligations under the settlement agreement remain in effect until the later of march 2, 2031, or the date 20 years after the date, if any, on which the u.s. government or the ftc files a complaint in federal court alleging any violation of the order. we expect to continue to be the subject of regulatory inquiries, investigations and audits in the future by the ftc and other regulators around the world. it is possible that a regulatory inquiry, investigation or audit might result in changes to our policies or practices, and may cause us to incur substantial costs or could result in reputational harm, prevent us from offering certain products, services, features or functionalities, cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner materially adverse to our business. violation of existing or future regulatory orders, settlements or consent decrees could subject us to substantial monetary fines and other penalties that could negatively affect our financial condition and operating results. 25 even though twitter is a global platform for public self-expression and conversation, user trust regarding privacy is important to the growth of users and the increase in user engagement on our platform, and privacy concerns relating to our products and services could damage our reputation and deter current and potential users and advertisers from using twitter. from time to time, concerns have been expressed by governments, regulators and others about whether our products, services or practices compromise the privacy of users and others. concerns about, governmental or regulatory actions involving our practices with regard to the collection, use, disclosure or security of personal information or other privacy-related matters, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation, cause us to lose users and advertisers and adversely affect our operating results. while we strive to comply with applicable data protection laws and regulations, as well as our own posted privacy policies and other obligations we may have with respect to privacy and data protection, the failure or perceived failure to comply may result, and in some cases has resulted, in inquiries and other proceedings or actions against us by governments, regulators or others, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation and brand, each of which could cause us to lose users and advertisers, which could have an adverse effect on our business. in march 2014, we were alerted to, and fixed, a bug in our system that, for approximately 94,000 protected accounts under rare circumstances, allowed non-approved followers to receive protected tweets via sms or push notifications since november 2013. we expect to continue to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches. the risk that these types of events could seriously harm our business is likely to increase as we expand the number of products and services we offer, increase the size of our user base and operate in more countries. governments and regulators around the world are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection and privacy. in addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws or regulations in the united states, europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and in flux, and in some cases, laws or regulations in one country may be inconsistent with, or contrary to, those of another country. it is possible that these laws and regulations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our practices. if so, in addition to the possibility of fines, this could result in an order requiring that we change our practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. complying with new laws and regulations could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner materially adverse to our business. if our security measures are breached, or if our products and services are subject to attacks that degrade or deny the ability of users to access our products and services, our products and services may be perceived as not being secure, users and advertisers may curtail or stop using our products and services and our business and operating results could be harmed. our products and services involve the storage and transmission of users' and advertisers' information, and security breaches expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and potential liability. we experience cyber-attacks of varying degrees on a regular basis, and as a result, unauthorized parties have obtained, and may in the future obtain, access to our data or our users' or advertisers' data. for example, in february 2013, we disclosed that sophisticated unknown third parties had attacked our systems and may have had access to limited information for approximately 250,000 users. we also work with third party vendors to process credit card payments by our customers and are subject to payment card association operating rules. any systems failure or compromise of our security that results in the unauthorized access to or release of our users' or advertisers' data, such as credit card data, could significantly limit the adoption of our products and services, as well as harm our reputation and brand and, therefore, our business. our security measures may also be breached due to employee error, malfeasance or otherwise. additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees, users or advertisers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or our users' or advertisers' data or accounts, or may otherwise obtain access to such data or accounts. since our users and advertisers may use their twitter accounts to establish and maintain online identities, unauthorized communications from twitter accounts that have been compromised may damage their reputations and brands as well as ours. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. if a perceived breach of our security occurs or an actual breach of our security that results in website performance, unauthorized access, availability problems, or the loss or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, such as credit card information, occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed, our users and advertisers may be harmed, lose trust and confidence in us or decrease the use of our website and services or stop using our services in their entirety and we may incur significant legal and financial exposure, including legal claims, higher transaction fees and regulatory fines and penalties. any of these actions could have a material and adverse effect on our business, reputation and operating results. 26 we may face lawsuits or incur liability as a result of content published or made available through our products and services. we have faced and will continue to face claims relating to content that is published or made available through our products and services or third party products or services. in particular, the nature of our business exposes us to claims related to defamation, intellectual property rights, rights of publicity and privacy, illegal content, content regulation and personal injury torts. the laws relating to the liability of providers of online products or services for activities of their users remains somewhat unsettled, both within the united states and internationally. this risk may be enhanced in certain jurisdictions outside the united states where we may be less protected under local laws than we are in the united states. in addition, the public nature of communications on our network exposes us to risks arising from the creation of impersonation accounts intended to be attributed to our users or advertisers. we could incur significant costs investigating and defending these claims. if we incur costs or liability as a result of these events occurring, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services and brand. our trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights are important assets for us. we rely on, and expect to continue to rely on, a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, trade dress, domain name, copyright, trade secret and patent laws, to protect our brand and other intellectual property rights. however, various events outside of our control pose a threat to our intellectual property rights, as well as to our products, services and technologies. for example, we may fail to obtain effective intellectual property protection, or effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are available. also, the efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient or effective, and any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged, which could result in them being narrowed in scope or declared invalid or unenforceable. there can be no assurance our intellectual property rights will be sufficient to protect against others offering products or services that are substantially similar to ours and compete with our business. we rely on non-patented proprietary information and technology, such as trade secrets, confidential information, know-how and technical information. while in certain cases we have agreements in place with employees and third parties that place restrictions on the use and disclosure of this intellectual property, these agreements may be breached, or this intellectual property may otherwise be disclosed or become known to our competitors, which could cause us to lose any competitive advantage resulting from this intellectual property. we are pursuing registration of trademarks and domain names in the united states and in certain jurisdictions outside of the united states. effective protection of trademarks and domain names is expensive and difficult to maintain, both in terms of application and registration costs as well as the costs of defending and enforcing those rights. we may be required to protect our rights in an increasing number of countries, a process that is expensive and may not be successful or which we may not pursue in every country in which our products and services are distributed or made available. we are party to numerous agreements that grant licenses to third parties to use our intellectual property, including our trademarks. for example, many third parties distribute their content through twitter, or embed twitter content in their applications or on their websites, and make use of our trademarks in connection with their services. if the licensees of our trademarks are not using our trademarks properly, it may limit our ability to protect our trademarks and could ultimately result in our trademarks being declared invalid or unenforceable. we have a policy designed to assist third parties in the proper use of our brand, trademarks and other assets, and we have an internal team dedicated to enforcing our policy and protecting our brand. our brand protection team routinely receives and reviews reports of improper and unauthorized use of the twitter brand, trademarks or assets and issues takedown notices or initiates discussions with the third parties to correct the issues. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to protect against the unauthorized use of our brand, trademarks or other assets. if we fail to maintain and enforce our trademark rights, the value of our brand could be diminished. there is also a risk that one or more of our trademarks could become generic, which could result in them being declared invalid or unenforceable. for example, there is a risk that the word tweet could become so commonly used that it becomes synonymous with any short comment posted publicly on the internet, and if this happens, we could lose protection of this trademark. 27 we also seek to obtain patent protection for some of our technology and as of december 31, 2014, we had 969 issued u.s. patents. we may be unable to obtain patent or trademark protection for our technologies and brands, and our existing patents and trademarks, and any patents or trademarks that may be issued in the future, may not provide us with competitive advantages or distinguish our products and services from those of our competitors. in addition, any patents and trademarks may be contested, circumvented, or found unenforceable or invalid, and we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing, diluting or otherwise violating them. effective protection of patent rights is expensive and difficult to maintain, both in terms of application and maintenance costs, as well as the costs of defending and enforcing those rights. our innovator's patent agreement, or ipa, also limits our ability to prevent infringement of our patents. in may 2013, we implemented the ipa, which we enter into with our employees and consultants, including our founders. the ipa, which applies to our current and future patents, allows us to assert our patents defensively. the ipa also allows us to assert our patents offensively with the permission of the inventors of the applicable patent. under the ipa, an assertion of claims is considered for a defensive purpose if the claims are asserted: (i) against an entity that has filed, maintained, threatened or voluntarily participated in a patent infringement lawsuit against us or any of our users, affiliates, customers, suppliers or distributors; (ii) against an entity that has used its patents offensively against any other party in the past ten years, so long as the entity has not instituted the patent infringement lawsuit defensively in response to a patent litigation threat against the entity; or (iii) otherwise to deter a patent litigation threat against us or our users, affiliates, customers, suppliers or distributors. in addition, the ipa provides that the above limitations apply to any future owner or exclusive licensee of any of our patents, which could limit our ability to sell or license our patents to third parties. while we may be able to claim protection of our intellectual property under other rights, such as trade secrets or contractual obligations with our employees not to disclose or use confidential information, we may be unable to assert our patent rights against third parties that we believe are infringing our patents, even if such third parties are developing products and services that compete with our products and services. for example, in the event that an inventor of one of our patents leaves us for another company and uses our patented technology to compete with us, we would not be able to assert that patent against such other company unless the assertion of the patent right is for a defensive purpose. in such event, we may be limited in our ability to assert a patent right against another company, and instead would need to rely on trade secret protection or the contractual obligation of the inventor to us not to disclose or use our confidential information. in addition, the terms of the ipa could affect our ability to monetize our intellectual property portfolio. significant impairments of our intellectual property rights, and limitations on our ability to assert our intellectual property rights against others, could harm our business and our ability to compete. also, obtaining, maintaining and enforcing our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our operating results. 28 we are currently, and expect to be in the future, party to intellectual property rights claims that are expensive and time consuming to defend, and, if resolved adversely, could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. companies in the internet, technology and media industries are subject to litigation based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation or other violations of intellectual property or other rights. many companies in these industries, including many of our competitors, have substantially larger patent and intellectual property portfolios than we do, which could make us a target for litigation as we may not be able to assert counterclaims against parties that sue us for patent, or other intellectual property infringement. in addition, various non-practicing entities that own patents and other intellectual property rights often attempt to assert claims in order to extract value from technology companies. from time to time we receive claims from third parties which allege that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights. in this regard, we received a letter from international business machines corporation, or ibm, alleging that we infringe on at least three u.s. patents held by ibm, and inviting us to negotiate a business resolution of the allegations. in december 2013, we acquired over 900 patents from ibm, which significantly increased the size of our patent portfolio and entered into a patent cross-license. further, from time to time we may introduce new products and services, including in areas where we currently do not have an offering, which could increase our exposure to patent and other intellectual property claims from competitors and non-practicing entities. in addition, although our standard terms and conditions for our promoted products and public apis do not provide advertisers and platform partners with indemnification for intellectual property claims against them, some of our agreements with advertisers, platform partners and data partners require us to indemnify them for certain intellectual property claims against them, which could require us to incur considerable costs in defending such claims, and may require us to pay significant damages in the event of an adverse ruling. such advertisers, platform partners and data partners may also discontinue use of our products, services and technologies as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenue and adversely impact our business. we presently are involved in a number of intellectual property lawsuits, and as we face increasing competition and gain an increasingly high profile, we expect the number of patent and other intellectual property claims against us to grow. there may be intellectual property or other rights held by others, including issued or pending patents, that cover significant aspects of our products and services, and we cannot be sure that we are not infringing or violating, and have not infringed or violated, any third-party intellectual property rights or that we will not be held to have done so or be accused of doing so in the future. any claim or litigation alleging that we have infringed or otherwise violated intellectual property or other rights of third parties, with or without merit, and whether or not settled out of court or determined in our favor, could be time-consuming and costly to address and resolve, and could divert the time and attention of our management and technical personnel. some of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do and are able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation to a greater degree and for longer periods of time than we could. the outcome of any litigation is inherently uncertain, and there can be no assurances that favorable final outcomes will be obtained in all cases. in addition, plaintiffs may seek, and we may become subject to, preliminary or provisional rulings in the course of any such litigation, including potential preliminary injunctions requiring us to cease some or all of our operations. we may decide to settle such lawsuits and disputes on terms that are unfavorable to us. similarly, if any litigation to which we are a party is resolved adversely, we may be subject to an unfavorable judgment that may not be reversed upon appeal. the terms of such a settlement or judgment may require us to cease some or all of our operations or pay substantial amounts to the other party. in addition, we may have to seek a license to continue practices found to be in violation of a third-party's rights. if we are required, or choose to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, such arrangements may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, and may significantly increase our operating costs and expenses. as a result, we may also be required to develop or procure alternative non-infringing technology or discontinue use of the technology. the development or procurement of alternative non-infringing technology could require significant effort and expense or may not be feasible. an unfavorable resolution of the disputes and litigation referred to above could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 29 many of our products and services contain open source software, and we license some of our software through open source projects, which may pose particular risks to our proprietary software, products, and services in a manner that could have a negative effect on our business. we use open source software in our products and services and will use open source software in the future. in addition, we regularly contribute software source code to open source projects under open source licenses or release internal software projects under open source licenses, and anticipate doing so in the future. the terms of many open source licenses to which we are subject have not been interpreted by u.s. or foreign courts, and there is a risk that open source software licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to provide or distribute our products or services. additionally, we may from time to time face claims from third parties claiming ownership of, or demanding release of, the open source software or derivative works that we developed using such software, which could include our proprietary source code, or otherwise seeking to enforce the terms of the applicable open source license. these claims could result in litigation and could require us to make our software source code freely available, purchase a costly license or cease offering the implicated products or services unless and until we can re-engineer them to avoid infringement. this re-engineering process could require significant additional research and development resources, and we may not be able to complete it successfully. in addition to risks related to license requirements, use of certain open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of software. additionally, because any software source code we contribute to open source projects is publicly available, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights with respect to such software source code may be limited or lost entirely, and we are unable to prevent our competitors or others from using such contributed software source code. any of these risks could be difficult to eliminate or manage, and, if not addressed, could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we may require additional capital to support our operations or the growth of our business, and we cannot be certain that this capital will be available on reasonable terms when required, or at all. from time to time, we may need additional financing to operate or grow our business. our ability to obtain additional financing, if and when required, will depend on investor and lender demand, our operating performance, the condition of the capital markets and other factors, and we cannot assure you that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our existing stockholders may experience dilution. if we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support the operation or growth of our business could be significantly impaired and our operating results may be harmed. we rely on assumptions and estimates to calculate certain of our key metrics, and real or perceived inaccuracies in such metrics may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. the numbers of our active users and timeline views are calculated using internal company data that has not been independently verified. while these numbers are based on what we believe to be reasonable calculations for the applicable period of measurement, there are inherent challenges in measuring usage and user engagement across our large user base around the world. for example, there are a number of false or spam accounts in existence on our platform. we estimate that false or spam accounts represent less than 5% of our maus. however, this estimate is based on an internal review of a sample of accounts and we apply significant judgment in making this determination. as such, our estimation of false or spam accounts may not accurately represent the actual number of such accounts, and the actual number of false or spam accounts could be higher than we have currently estimated. we are continually seeking to improve our ability to estimate the total number of spam accounts and eliminate them from the calculation of our active users, but we otherwise treat multiple accounts held by a single person or organization as multiple users for purposes of calculating our active users because we permit people and organizations to have more than one account. additionally, some accounts used by organizations are used by many people within the organization. as such, the calculations of our active users may not accurately reflect the actual number of people or organizations using our platform. our metrics are also affected by mobile applications that automatically contact our servers for regular updates with no discernable user action involved, and this activity can cause our system to count the user associated with such a device as an active user on the day such contact occurs. the calculations of maus presented in this annual report on form 10-k may be affected by this activity. the impact of this automatic activity on our metrics varies by geography because mobile application usage varies in different regions of the world. in addition, our data regarding user geographic location is based on the ip address associated with the account when a user initially registered the account on twitter. the ip address may not always accurately reflect a user's actual location at the time of such user's engagement on our platform. 30 we regularly review and may adjust our processes for calculating our internal metrics to improve their accuracy. our measures of user growth and user engagement may differ from estimates published by third parties or from similarly-titled metrics of our competitors due to differences in methodology. if advertisers, platform partners or investors do not perceive our user metrics to be accurate representations of our user base or user engagement, or if we discover material inaccuracies in our user metrics, our reputation may be harmed and advertisers and platform partners may be less willing to allocate their budgets or resources to our products and services, which could negatively affect our business and operating results. further, as our business develops, we may revise or cease reporting metrics if we determine that such metrics are no longer accurate or appropriate measures of our performance. for example, we recently announced that we do not intend to disclose timeline views for any future period as we do not believe that metric is helpful in measuring engagement on our platform going forward. if investors, analysts or customers do not believe our reported measures of user engagement are sufficient or accurately reflect our business, we may receive negative publicity and our operating results may be harmed. we depend on highly skilled personnel to grow and operate our business, and if we are unable to hire, retain and motivate our personnel, we may not be able to grow effectively. our future success will depend upon our continued ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel, including senior management, engineers, designers and product managers. our ability to execute efficiently is dependent upon contributions from our employees, in particular our senior management team. we do not have employment agreements other than offer letters with any member of our senior management or other key employee, and we do not maintain key person life insurance for any employee. in addition, from time to time, there may be changes in our senior management team that may be disruptive to our business. if our senior management team, including any new hires that we may make, fails to work together effectively and to execute our plans and strategies on a timely basis, our business could be harmed. our growth strategy also depends on our ability to expand and retain our organization with highly skilled personnel. identifying, recruiting, training and integrating qualified individuals will require significant time, expense and attention. in addition to hiring new employees, we must continue to focus on retaining our best employees. because of our initial public offering, many of our employees are able to receive significant proceeds from sales of our equity in the public markets, which may reduce their motivation to continue to work for us. competition for highly skilled personnel is intense, particularly in the san francisco bay area, where our headquarters is located. we may need to invest significant amounts of cash and equity to attract and retain new employees and we may never realize returns on these investments. if we are not able to effectively add and retain employees, our ability to achieve our strategic objectives will be adversely impacted, and our business will be harmed. our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, creativity and teamwork fostered by our culture, and our business may be harmed. we believe that our culture has been and will continue to be a key contributor to our success. from january 1, 2010 to december 31, 2014, we increased the size of our workforce by approximately 3,500 full-time employees, and we expect to continue to hire aggressively as we expand. if we do not continue to develop our corporate culture or maintain our core values as we grow and evolve, we may be unable to foster the innovation, creativity and teamwork we believe we need to support our growth. our transition from a private company to a public company may result in a change to our corporate culture, which could harm our business. 31 we rely in part on application marketplaces and internet search engines to drive traffic to our products and services, and if we fail to appear high up in the search results or rankings, traffic to our platform could decline and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. we rely on application marketplaces, such as apple's app store and google's play, to drive downloads of our mobile applications. in the future, apple, google or other operators of application marketplaces may make changes to their marketplaces which make access to our products and services more difficult. we also depend in part on internet search engines, such as google, bing and yahoo, to drive traffic to our website. for example, when a user types an inquiry into a search engine, we rely on a high organic search result ranking of our webpages in these search results to refer the user to our website. however, our ability to maintain high organic search result rankings is not within our control. our competitors' search engine optimization, or seo, efforts may result in their websites receiving a higher search result page ranking than ours, or internet search engines could revise their methodologies in a way that would adversely affect our search result rankings. for example, google has integrated its social networking offerings, including google+, with certain of its products, including search, which has negatively impacted the organic search ranking of our webpages. if internet search engines modify their search algorithms in ways that are detrimental to us, or if our competitors' seo efforts are more successful than ours, the growth in our user base could slow. our website has experienced fluctuations in search result rankings in the past, and we anticipate similar fluctuations in the future. any reduction in the number of users directed to our mobile applications or website through application marketplaces and search engines could harm our business and operating results. more people are using devices other than personal computers to access the internet and new platforms to produce and consume content, and we need to continue to promote the adoption of our mobile applications, and our business and operating results may be harmed if we are unable to do so. the number of people who access the internet through devices other than personal computers, including mobile phones, smartphones, handheld computers such as net books and tablets, video game consoles and television set-top devices, has increased dramatically in the past few years. in the three months ended december 31, 2014, over 85% of our advertising revenue was generated from mobile devices. since we generate a majority of our advertising revenue through users on mobile devices, we must continue to drive adoption of our mobile applications. however, in emerging markets like india and pakistan, most users use feature phones and communicate via sms messaging, both of which have limited functionality and neither of which may be able to take full advantage of our products and services offered on smartphone or our website or desktop applications. in addition, mobile users frequently change or upgrade their mobile devices. our business and operating results may be harmed if our users do not install our mobile application when they change or upgrade their mobile device. although we generate the majority of our advertising revenue from ad engagements on mobile devices, certain of our products and services, including promoted trends and promoted accounts, receive less prominence on our mobile applications than they do on our desktop applications. this has in the past reduced, and may in the future continue to reduce, the amount of revenue we are able to generate from these products and services as users increasingly access our products and services through mobile and alternative devices. in addition, as new devices and platforms are continually being released, users may consume content in a manner that is more difficult to monetize. it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in adapting our products and services and developing competitive new products and services that are compatible with new devices or platforms. if we are unable to develop products and services that are compatible with new devices and platforms, or if we are unable to drive continued adoption of our mobile applications, our business and operating results may be harmed. future acquisitions and investments could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and operating results. our success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our products and services, and grow our business in response to changing technologies, user and advertiser demands, and competitive pressures. in some circumstances, we may determine to do so through the acquisition of complementary businesses and technologies rather than through internal development, including, for example, our acquisitions of vine labs, inc., a mobile application that enables users to create and distribute videos that are up to six seconds in length, mopub, inc., a mobile-focused advertising exchange and gnip, inc., a company that provides social data analysis and was formerly a twitter data partner. the identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions. the risks we face in connection with acquisitions include: diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to addressing acquisition integration challenges; coordination of research and development and sales and marketing functions; 32 retention of key employees from the acquired company; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization; integration of the acquired company's accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems and processes; the need to implement or improve controls, procedures, and policies at a business that prior to the acquisition may have lacked effective controls, procedures and policies; liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including intellectual property infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities; unanticipated write-offs or charges; and litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, users, former stockholders or other third parties. our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments, cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally. future acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses, incremental operating expenses or the impairment of goodwill, any of which could harm our financial condition or operating results. if we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. as a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, or the exchange act, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, as amended, or the sarbanes-oxley act, and the listing standards of the new york stock exchange. we expect that the requirements of these rules and regulations will continue to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time consuming and costly, and place significant strain on our personnel, systems and resources. the sarbanes-oxley act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. we are continuing to develop and refine our disclosure controls and other procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we will file with the sec is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in sec rules and forms, and that information required to be disclosed in reports under the exchange act is accumulated and communicated to our principal executive and financial officers. we are also continuing to improve our internal control over financial reporting. in order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we have expended, and anticipate that we will continue to expend, significant resources, including accounting-related costs and significant management oversight. our current controls and any new controls that we develop may become inadequate because of changes in conditions in our business. further, weaknesses in our disclosure controls or our internal control over financial reporting may be discovered in the future. any failure to develop or maintain effective controls, or any difficulties encountered in their implementation or improvement, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and may result in a restatement of our financial statements for prior periods. any failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting also could adversely affect the results of management evaluations and independent registered public accounting firm audits of our internal control over financial reporting that we are required to include in our periodic reports that will be filed with the sec. ineffective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial and other information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. in addition, if we are unable to continue to meet these requirements, we may not be able to remain listed on the new york stock exchange. any failure to maintain effective disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting could have a material and adverse effect on our business and operating results, and cause a decline in the price of our common stock. 33 if currency exchange rates fluctuate substantially in the future, our operating results, which are reported in u.s. dollars, could be adversely affected. as we continue to expand our international operations, we will become more exposed to the effects of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. we incur expenses for employee compensation and other operating expenses at our international locations in the local currency, and accept payment from advertisers or data partners in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. since we conduct business in currencies other than u.s. dollars but report our operating results in u.s. dollars, we face exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. consequently, exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and other currencies could have a material impact on our operating results. our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, power outages, floods and other catastrophic events, and to interruption by man-made problems such as terrorism. a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire, flood or significant power outage could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. our headquarters and certain of our co-located data center facilities are located in the san francisco bay area, a region known for seismic activity. despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at our data centers could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. in addition, acts of terrorism and other geo-political unrest could cause disruptions in our business. all of the aforementioned risks may be further increased if our disaster recovery plans prove to be inadequate. we have implemented a disaster recovery program, which allows us to move production to a back-up data center in the event of a catastrophe. although this program is functional, we do not currently serve network traffic equally from each data center, so if our primary data center shuts down, there will be a period of time that our products or services, or certain of our products or services, will remain inaccessible to our users or our users may experience severe issues accessing our products and services. we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses, including the potential harm to our business that may result from interruptions in our ability to provide our products and services. we may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities, which could adversely impact our operating results. our income tax obligations are based in part on our corporate operating structure, including the manner in which we develop, value and use our intellectual property and the scope of our international operations. the tax laws applicable to our international business activities, including the laws of the united states and other jurisdictions, are subject to interpretation. the taxing authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our methodologies for valuing developed technology (or other intangible assets) or intercompany arrangements, which could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial condition and operating results. we are subject to review and audit by u.s. federal and state and foreign tax authorities. tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our financial position and operating results. in addition, our future income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. greater than anticipated tax expenses, or disputes with tax authorities, could adversely impact our operating results. if our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. under generally accepted accounting principles in the united states, or u.s. gaap, we review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. as of december 31, 2014, we had recorded a total of $727.6 million of goodwill and intangible assets related to our acquisitions. an adverse change in market conditions, particularly if such change has the effect of changing one of our critical assumptions or estimates, could result in a change to the estimation of fair value that could result in an impairment charge to our goodwill or intangible assets. any such material charges may have a material negative impact on our operating results. 34 our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited. as of december 31, 2014, we had u.s. federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $2.60 billion and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $1.00 billion. under sections 382 and 383 of internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, or the code, if a corporation undergoes an ownership change, the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes, such as research tax credits, to offset its post-change income and taxes may be limited. in general, an ownership change occurs if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by 5% shareholders that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. similar rules may apply under state tax laws. in the event that it is determined that we have in the past experienced an ownership change, or if we experience one or more ownership changes as a result of future transactions in our stock, then we may be limited in our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax assets to reduce taxes owed on the net taxable income that we earn. any such limitations on the ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax assets could adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. risks related to ownership of our common stock anti-takeover provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and delaware law contain provisions which could have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying, or preventing an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. among other things, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include provisions: creating a classified board of directors whose members serve staggered three-year terms; authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval and may contain voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings; requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; and controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of board of directors and stockholder meetings. these provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents certain stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of our outstanding common stock not held by such 15% or greater stockholder. any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. the market price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment. the market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. since shares of our common stock were sold in our initial public offering in november 2013 at a price of $26.00 per share, the reported high and low sales prices of our common stock has ranged from $74.73 to $29.51, through december 31, 2014. in addition to the factors discussed in this risk factors section and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k, factors that could cause fluctuations in the market price of our common stock include the following: price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; volatility in the market prices and trading volumes of technology stocks; 35 changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in our industry in particular; sales of shares of our common stock by us or our stockholders; our issuance of shares of our common stock, whether in connection with an acquisition or upon conversion of some or all of our outstanding notes; failure of securities analysts to maintain coverage of us, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts who follow our company, or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors; the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in those projections or our failure to meet those projections; announcements by us or our competitors of new products or services; the public's reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the sec; rumors and market speculation involving us or other companies in our industry; actual or anticipated changes in our operating results or fluctuations in our operating results; actual or anticipated developments in our business, our competitors' businesses or the competitive landscape generally; litigation involving us, our industry or both, or investigations by regulators into our operations or those of our competitors; developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; announced or completed acquisitions of businesses or technologies by us or our competitors; new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidelines, interpretations or principles; any significant change in our management; and general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of our markets. the price of our common stock could also be affected by possible sales of our common stock by investors who view the notes as a more attractive means of equity participation in us and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expect to develop involving our common stock. in addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. this litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. the note hedge and warrant transactions may affect the value of our common stock. concurrently with the issuance of the notes, we entered into note hedge transactions with certain financial institutions, which we refer to as the option counterparties. the note hedge transactions are generally expected to reduce the potential dilution upon any conversion of the notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted notes, as the case may be. we also entered into warrant transactions with the option counterparties. however, the warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants. the option counterparties or their respective affiliates may modify their initial hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives contracts with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the notes (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of notes or following any repurchase of notes by us on any fundamental change repurchase date or otherwise). this activity could cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of our common stock. 36 in addition, if any such convertible note hedge and warrant transactions fail to become effective, the option counterparties or their respective affiliates may unwind their hedge positions with respect to our common stock, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. we are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the note hedge transactions. the option counterparties are financial institutions or affiliates of financial institutions, and we are subject to the risk that these option counterparties may default under the note hedge transactions. our exposure to the credit risk of the option counterparties is not secured by any collateral. if one or more of the option counterparties to one or more of our note hedge transactions becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim equal to our exposure at the time under those transactions. our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, the increase in our exposure will be correlated to the increase in the market price of our common stock and in the volatility of the market price of our common stock. in addition, upon a default by one of the option counterparties, we may suffer adverse tax consequences and dilution with respect to our common stock. we can provide no assurances as to the financial stability or viability of any of the option counterparties. if securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our common stock adversely, the price of our common stock and trading volume could decline. the trading market for our common stock is influenced, to some extent, by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us, our business, our industry, our market or our competitors. if any of the analysts who cover us change their recommendation regarding our common stock adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, the price of our common stock would likely decline. if any analysts who cover us were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause the price of our common stock or trading volume to decline. we do not expect to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future. we do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. in addition, our credit facility contains restrictions on payments including payments of cash dividends. consequently, investors may need to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 65 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we have operations both within the united states and internationally, and we are exposed to market risks in the ordinary course of our business. these risks include primarily interest rate and foreign exchange risks. interest rate fluctuation risk our investment portfolio mainly consists of short-term interest-bearing obligations, including government and investment-grade debt securities and money market funds. these securities are classified as available-for-sale and, consequently, are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets at fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax. our investment policy and strategy is focused on the preservation of capital and supporting our liquidity requirements. we do not enter into investments for trading or speculative purposes. a rise in interest rates could have a material adverse impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio. based on our investment portfolio balance as of december 31, 2014, a hypothetical increase in interest rates of 100 basis points would result in a decrease of approximately $8.7 million in the fair value of our available-for-sale securities. we currently do not hedge these interest rate exposures. in 2014, we issued notes with aggregate principal amount of $1.89 billion. we carry the notes at face value less amortized discount on the consolidated balance sheet. since the notes bear interest at fixed rates, we have no financial statement risk associated with changes in interest rates. however, the fair value of the notes changes primarily when the market price of our stock fluctuates or interest rates change. foreign currency exchange risk transaction exposure we transact business in various foreign currencies and have international revenue, as well as costs denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the euro, british pound and japanese yen. this exposes us to the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. accordingly, changes in exchange rates, and in particular a strengthening of the u.s. dollar, would negatively affect our revenue and other operating results as expressed in u.s. dollars. we have experienced and will continue to experience fluctuations in our net loss as a result of transaction gains or losses related to revaluing and ultimately settling certain asset and liability balances that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the entities in which they are recorded. net realized and unrealized foreign currency losses were $7.2 million in 2014. foreign currency gains and losses were not significant in 2013 or 2012. at this time we do not, but we may in the future, enter into derivatives or other financial instruments in an attempt to hedge our foreign currency exchange risk. it is difficult to predict the impact hedging activities would have on our results of operations. translation exposure we are also exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as we convert the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries into u.s. dollars in consolidation. if there is a change in foreign currency exchange rates, the conversion of our foreign subsidiaries' financial statements into u.s. dollars would result in a gain or loss recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss which is part of stockholders' equity. revenue and related expenses generated from our international subsidiaries are generally denominated in the currencies of the local countries. primary currencies include the euro, british pound and japanese yen. the statements of operations of our international operations are translated into u.s. dollars at exchange rates indicative of market rates during each applicable period. to the extent the u.s. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency-denominated transactions would result in reduced consolidated revenue and operating expenses. conversely, our consolidated revenue and operating expenses would increase if the u.s. dollar weakens against foreign currencies. 65risk factors 10 risk factors investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, including the section titled management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making a decision to invest in our common stock. the risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only ones we face. if any of the risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. in that event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. 10 risks related to our business and our indust ry if we fail to grow our user base, or if user engagement or ad engagement on our platform decline, our revenue, business and operating results may be harmed. the size of our user base and our users' level of engagement are critical to our success. we had 320 million average maus in the three months ended december 31, 2015, representing a 9% increase from 292 million average maus in the three months ended december 31, 2014, and flat versus the three months ended september 30, 2015. in the three months ended december 31, 2015, maus, excluding sms fast followers, grew 6% year-over-year to 305 million, but were down on a sequential basis for the three months ended september 30, 2015. our financial performance has been and will continue to be significantly determined by our success in growing the number of users and increasing their overall level of engagement on our platform as well as the number of ad engagements. we anticipate that our user growth rate will slow over time as the size of our user base increases. for example, in general, a higher proportion of internet users in the united states uses twitter than internet users in other countries and, in the future, we expect our user growth rate in certain international markets, such as argentina, brazil, france, india, japan and the philippines, to continue to be higher than our user growth rate in the united states. to the extent our logged-in user growth rate slows, our success will become increasingly dependent on our ability to increase levels of ad engagement on twitter, and monetizing our total audience on logged-out usage and syndicated properties as well as increasing revenue growth from the sale to advertisers of our advertising products which we place on third party publishers' websites, applications and other offerings. we generate a substantial majority of our revenue based upon engagement by our users with the ads that we display. if people do not perceive our products and services to be useful, reliable and trustworthy, we may not be able to attract users or increase the frequency of their engagement with our platform and the ads that we display. a number of consumer-oriented websites that achieved early popularity have since seen their user bases or levels of engagement decline, in some cases precipitously. there is no guarantee that we will not experience a similar erosion of our user base or engagement levels. a number of factors could potentially negatively affect user growth and engagement, including if: users, including influential users, such as world leaders, government officials, celebrities, athletes, journalists, sports teams, media outlets and brands or certain age demographics, engage with other products, services or activities as an alternative to ours; we are unable to convince potential or new users of the value and usefulness of our products and services; there is a decrease in the perceived quantity, quality usefulness or relevance of the content generated by our users; we fail to introduce new and improved products or services or if we introduce new or improved products or services that are not favorably received or that negatively affect user engagement; technical or other problems prevent us from delivering our products or services in a rapid and reliable manner or otherwise affect the user experience, including issues with connecting to the internet; users have difficulty installing, updating, or otherwise accessing our products or services on mobile devices as a result of actions by us or third parties that we rely on to distribute our products and deliver our services; we are unable to manage and prioritize information to ensure users are presented with content that is interesting, useful and relevant to them; users believe that their experience is diminished as a result of the decisions we make with respect to the frequency, relevance and prominence of ads that we display; there are user concerns related to privacy and communication, safety, security, spam or other hostile or inappropriate usage or other factors; there are adverse changes in our products or services that are mandated by, or that we elect to make to address, legislation, regulatory authorities or litigation, including settlements or consent decrees; we fail to provide adequate customer service to users; or we do not maintain our brand image or our reputation is damaged. we believe that returning to meaningful mau growth is dependent on improving our product and feature offerings to demonstrate our value proposition to a larger audience. if we are unable to increase our user base, user growth rate or user engagement, or if these metrics decline, our products and services could be less attractive to potential new users, as well as to advertisers and platform partners, which would have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. 11 if our users do not continue to contribute content or their contributions are not valuable to other users, we may experience a decline in the number of users accessing ou r products and services and user engagement, which could result in the loss of advertisers, platform partners and revenue. our success depends on our ability to provide users of our products and services with valuable content, which in turn depends on the content contributed by our users. we believe that one of our competitive advantages is the quality, quantity and real-time nature of the content on twitter, and that access to unique or real-time content is one of the main reasons users visit twitter. our ability to expand into new international markets depends on the availability of relevant local content in those markets. we seek to foster a broad and engaged user community, and we encourage world leaders, government officials, celebrities, athletes, journalists, sports teams, media outlets and brands to use our products and services to express their views to broad audiences. we also encourage media outlets to use our products and services to distribute their content. if users, including influential users, do not continue to contribute content to twitter, and we are unable to provide users with valuable and timely content, our user base and user engagement may decline. additionally, if we are not able to address user concerns regarding the safety and security of our products and services or if we are unable to successfully prevent abusive or other hostile behavior on our platform, the size of our user base and user engagement may decline. we rely on the sale of advertising services for the substantial majority of our revenue. if we experience a decline in the number of users, user growth rate, or user engagement, including as a result of the loss of world leaders, government officials, celebrities, athletes, journalists, sports teams, media outlets and brands who generate content on twitter, advertisers may not view our products and services as attractive for their marketing expenditures, and may reduce their spending with us which would harm our business and operating results. we generate the substantial majority of our revenue from advertising. the loss of advertising revenue could harm our business. the substantial majority of our revenue is currently generated from third parties advertising on twitter. we generated approximately 90% of our revenue from advertising in each of the fiscal years ended december 31, 2014 and 2015. we generate substantially all of our advertising revenue through the sale of our three promoted products: promoted tweets, promoted accounts and promoted trends. as is common in our industry, our advertisers do not have long-term advertising commitments with us. in addition, many of our advertisers purchase our advertising services through one of several large advertising agency holding companies. advertising agencies and potential new advertisers may view our promoted products as experimental and unproven, and we may need to devote additional time and resources to educate them about our products and services. advertisers also may choose to reach users through our free products and services, instead of our promoted products. advertisers will not continue to do business with us, or they will reduce the prices they are willing to pay to advertise with us, if we do not deliver ads in an effective manner, or if they do not believe that their investment in advertising with us will generate a competitive return relative to alternatives, including online, mobile and traditional advertising platforms. additionally, since our initial public offering, our revenue growth has been primarily driven by increases in the number of our users and increases in our ad load driven by strong advertiser demand as well as other factors. to date, our available advertising inventory has been greater than demand. our future revenue growth, however, may be limited on certain days by available advertising inventory for specific ad types if we do not increase the number of our users, their engagement or monetize our larger global audience. our advertising revenue could be adversely affected by a number of other factors, including: decreases in user engagement with the ads on our platform and those that we serve off or our platform; decreases in the size of our user base or user growth rate; if we are unable to demonstrate the value of our promoted products to advertisers and advertising agencies or if we are unable to measure the value of our promoted products in a manner which advertisers and advertising agencies find useful; if our promoted products are not cost effective or valuable for certain types of advertisers or if we are unable to develop cost effective or valuable advertising services for different types of advertisers; if we are unable to convince advertisers and brands to invest resources in learning to use our products and services and maintaining a brand presence on twitter; our advertisers' ability to optimize their campaigns or measure the results of their campaigns; product or service changes we may make that change the frequency or relative prominence of ads displayed on twitter or that detrimentally impact revenue in the near term with the goal of achieving long term benefits; our inability to increase advertiser demand and inventory; 12 our inability to increase the relevance of ads shown to users; our inability to help advertisers effectively target ads, including as a result of the fact that we do not collect extensive personal information from our users and that we do not have real-time geographic information for all of our users particularly for ads served through our app mobile-focused advertising exchange; decreases in the cost per ad engagement; failure to effectively monetize our growing international user base, our logged-out audience or our syndicated audience; loss of advertising market share to our competitors; the degree to which users access twitter content through applications that do not contain our ads; any arrangements or other partnerships with third parties to share our revenue; our new advertising strategies do not gain traction; the impact of new technologies that could block or obscure the display of our ads; adverse legal developments relating to advertising or measurement tools related to the effectiveness of advertising, including legislative and regulatory developments, and developments in litigation; our inability to create new products, product features and services that sustain or increase the value of our advertising services to both our advertisers and our users; changes to our products or development of new products or product features that decrease users' ad engagements or limit the types of user interactions that we count as ad engagements; the impact of fraudulent clicks or spam on our promoted products and our users; changes in the way our advertising is priced; and the impact of macroeconomic conditions and conditions in the advertising industry in general. the occurrence of any of these or other factors could result in a reduction in demand for our ads, which may reduce the prices we receive for our ads, either of which would negatively affect our revenue and operating results. if we are unable to compete effectively for users and advertiser spend, our business and operating results could be harmed. competition for users of our products and services is intense. although we have developed a global platform for public self-expression and conversation in real time, we face strong competition in our business. we compete against many companies to attract and engage users, including companies which have greater financial resources and substantially larger user bases, such as facebook (including instagram and whatsapp), google, linkedin, microsoft and yahoo, which offer a variety of internet and mobile device-based products, services and content. for example, facebook operates a social networking site with significantly more users than twitter and has been introducing features similar to those of twitter. in addition, google may use its strong position in one or more markets to gain a competitive advantage over us in areas in which we operate, including by integrating competing features into products or services they control. as a result, our competitors may draw users towards their products or services and away from ours. this could decrease the growth or engagement of our user base, which, in turn, would negatively affect our business. we also compete against largely regional social media and messaging companies that have strong positions in particular countries. we believe that our ability to compete effectively for users depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: the popularity, usefulness, ease of use, performance and reliability of our products and services compared to those of our competitors; the amount, quality and timeliness of content generated by our users; the timing and market acceptance of our products and services; the continued adoption of our products and services internationally; 13 our ability, in and of itself and i n comparison to the ability of our competitors, to develop new products and services and enhancements to existing products and services; the frequency and relative prominence of the ads displayed by us or our competitors; our ability to establish and maintain relationships with platform partners that integrate with our platform; our ability to develop a reliable, scalable, secure, high-performance technology infrastructure that can efficiently handle increased usage globally; changes mandated by, or that we elect to make to address, legislation, regulatory authorities or litigation, including settlements and consent decrees, some of which may have a disproportionate effect on us; the application of antitrust laws both in the united states and internationally; government action regulating competition; our ability to attract, retain and motivate talented employees, particularly engineers, designers and product managers; acquisitions or consolidation within our industry, which may result in more formidable competitors; and our reputation and the brand strength relative to our competitors. we also face significant competition for advertiser spend. the substantial majority of our revenue is currently generated through third parties advertising on twitter, and we compete against online and mobile businesses, including those referenced above, and traditional media outlets, such as television, radio and print, for advertising budgets. we also compete with advertising networks, exchanges, demand side platforms and other platforms, such as google adsense, doubleclick ad exchange, yahoo ad exchange, aol's ad.com and microsoft media network, for marketing budgets and in the development of the tools and systems for managing and optimizing advertising campaigns. in order to grow our revenue and improve our operating results, we must increase our share of spending on advertising relative to our competitors, many of which are larger companies that offer more traditional and widely accepted advertising products. in addition, some of our larger competitors have substantially broader product or service offerings and leverage their relationships based on other products or services to gain additional share of advertising budgets. we believe that our ability to compete effectively for advertiser spend depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: the size and composition of our user base relative to those of our competitors; our ad targeting and measurement capabilities, and those of our competitors; the timing and market acceptance of our advertising services, and those of our competitors; our marketing and selling efforts, and those of our competitors; the pricing of our promoted products relative to the advertising products and services of our competitors; the return our advertisers receive from our advertising services, and those of our competitors; and our reputation and the strength of our brand relative to our competitors. in recent years, there have been significant acquisitions and consolidation by and among our actual and potential competitors. we anticipate this trend of consolidation will continue, which will present heightened competitive challenges for our business. acquisitions by our competitors may result in reduced functionality of our products and services. for example, following facebook's acquisition of instagram, facebook disabled instagram's photo integration with twitter such that instagram photos are no longer viewable within tweets and users are now re-directed to instagram to view instagram photos through a link within a tweet. as a result, our users may be less likely to click on links to instagram photos in tweets, and instagram users may be less likely to tweet or remain active users of twitter. any similar elimination of integration with twitter in the future, whether by facebook or others, may adversely impact our business and operating results. 14 consolidation may also enable our larger competitors to offer bundled or integrat ed products that feature alternatives to our platform. reduced functionality of our products and services, or our competitors' ability to offer bundled or integrated products that compete directly with us, may cause our user growth, user engagement and ad engagement to decline and advertisers to reduce their spend with us. if we are not able to compete effectively for users and advertiser spend our business and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which makes them difficult to predict. our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and will fluctuate in the future. as a result, our past quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicators of future performance. our operating results in any given quarter can be influenced by numerous factors, many of which we are unable to predict or are outside of our control, including: our ability to grow our user base and user engagement; our ability to attract and retain advertisers and platform partners; the occurrence of planned significant events, such as the world cup, super bowl, champions league final, world series, olympics and the oscars, or unplanned significant events, such as natural disasters and political revolutions; the pricing of our products and services; the development and introduction of new products or services or changes in features of existing products or services; the impact of competitors or competitive products and services; our ability to maintain or increase revenue; our ability to maintain or improve gross margins and operating margins; increases in research and development, marketing and sales and other operating expenses that we may incur to grow and expand our operations and to remain competitive; stock-based compensation expense; costs related to the acquisition of businesses, talent, technologies or intellectual property, including potentially significant amortization costs; system failures resulting in the inaccessibility of our products and services; breaches of security or privacy, and the costs associated with remediating any such breaches; adverse litigation judgments, settlements or other litigation-related costs, and the fees associated with investigating and defending claims; changes in the legislative or regulatory environment, including with respect to security, privacy or enforcement by government regulators, including fines, orders or consent decrees; fluctuations in currency exchange rates and changes in the proportion of our revenue and expenses denominated in foreign currencies; changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles; and changes in global business or macroeconomic conditions. 15 given our limited operating history and the rapidly evolving markets in which we compete, our historical operating results may not be useful to you in predicting our future operating results. as our revenue growth rate slows, we expect that the seasonality in our business may become more pronounced and may in the future cause our operating results to fluctuate. for example, advertising spending is traditionally seasonally strong in the fourth quarter of each year and we believe that this seasonality affects our quarterly results, which generally reflect higher sequential advertising revenue growth from the third to fourth quarter compared to sequential advertising revenue growth from the fourth quarter to the subsequent first quarter. in addition, global eco nomic concerns continue to create uncertainty and unpredictability and add risk to our future outlook. an economic downturn in any particular region in which we do business or globally could result in reductions in advertising revenue, as our advertisers r educe their advertising budgets, and other adverse effects that could harm our operating results. we depend on highly skilled personnel to grow and operate our business, and if we are unable to hire, retain and motivate our personnel, we may not be able to grow effectively. our future success will depend upon our continued ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel, including senior management, engineers, designers and product managers. our ability to execute efficiently is dependent upon contributions from our employees, in particular our senior management team. we do not have employment agreements other than offer letters with any member of our senior management or other key employee, and we do not maintain key person life insurance for any employee. in addition, from time to time, there may be changes in our senior management team that may be disruptive to our business. if our senior management team, including any new hires that we may make, fails to work together effectively and to execute our plans and strategies on a timely basis, our business could be harmed. our growth strategy also depends on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. identifying, recruiting, training and integrating qualified individuals will require significant time, expense and attention. in addition to hiring new employees, we must continue to focus on retaining our best employees. because of our initial public offering, many of our employees are able to receive significant proceeds from sales of our equity in the public markets, which may reduce their motivation to continue to work for us. competition for highly skilled personnel is intense, particularly in the san francisco bay area, where our headquarters is located. we may need to invest significant amounts of cash and equity to attract and retain new employees and we may never realize returns on these investments. if we are not able to effectively attract and retain employees, our ability to achieve our strategic objectives will be adversely impacted, and our business will be harmed. if we fail to expand effectively in international markets, our revenue and our business will be harmed. we may not be able to monetize our products and services internationally as effectively as in the united states as a result of competition, advertiser demand, differences in the digital advertising market and digital advertising conventions, as well as differences in the way that users in different countries access or utilize our products and services. for example, most users in emerging markets like india and pakistan use feature phones and communicate via sms messaging, both of which have limited functionality and neither of which may be able to take full advantage of our products and services offered on smartphone or our website or desktop applications. users who access twitter through sms messaging may monetize at lower rates than other users. differences in the competitive landscape in international markets may impact our ability to monetize our products and services. for example, in south korea we face intense competition from a messaging service offered by kakao, which offers some of the same communication features as twitter. the existence of a well-established competitor in an international market may adversely affect our ability to increase our user base, attract platform partners and advertisers and monetize our products in such market. we may also experience differences in advertiser demand in international markets. for example, during times of political upheaval, advertisers may choose not to advertise on twitter. certain international markets are also not as familiar with digital advertising in general, or in new forms of digital advertising such as our promoted products. further, we face challenges in providing certain advertising products, features or analytics in certain international markets, such as the european union, due to government regulation. our products and services may also be used differently abroad than in the united states. in particular, in certain international markets where internet access is not as rapid or reliable as in the united states, users tend not to take advantage of certain features of our products and services, such as rich media included in tweets. the limitation of mobile devices of users in emerging and other markets limits our ability to deliver certain features to those users and may limit the ability of advertisers to deliver compelling advertisements to users in these markets which may result in reduced ad engagements which would adversely affect our business and operating results. 16 if our revenue from our international operations, and particularly from our operations in the countries and regions where we have focused our spending, does not exceed the expense of estab lishing and maintaining these operations, our business and operating results will suffer. in addition, our user base may expand more rapidly in international regions where we are less successful in monetizing our products and services. as our user base con tinues to expand internationally, we will need to increase revenue from the activity generated by our international users in order to grow our business. for example, users outside the united states constituted 80% of our average maus in the three months en ded december 31, 2015, but our international revenue, as determined based on the billing location of our advertisers, was only 35% of our consolidated revenue in the three months ended december 31, 2015. our inability to successfully expand internationally could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. user growth and engagement depend upon effective interoperation with operating systems, networks, devices, web browsers and standards that we do not control. we make our products and services available across a variety of operating systems and through websites. we are dependent on the interoperability of our products and services with popular devices, desktop and mobile operating systems and web browsers that we do not control, such as mac os, windows, android, ios, chrome and firefox. any changes in such systems, devices or web browsers that degrade the functionality of our products and services, make it difficult for our users to access our content, limit our ability to target or measure the effectiveness of ads, impose fees related to our products or services or give preferential treatment to competitive products or services could adversely affect usage of our products and services. further, if the number of platforms for which we develop our product expands, it will result in an increase in our operating expenses. in order to deliver high quality products and services, it is important that our products and services work well with a range of operating systems, networks, devices, web browsers and standards that we do not control. in addition, because a majority of our users access our products and services through mobile devices, we are particularly dependent on the interoperability of our products and services with mobile devices and operating systems. we may not be successful in developing relationships with key participants in the mobile industry or in developing products or services that operate effectively with these operating systems, networks, devices, web browsers and standards. in the event that it is difficult for our users to access and use our products and services, particularly on their mobile devices, our user growth and engagement could be harmed, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. our ability to convince potential and new users of the value of our products and services is critical to increasing our user base and to the success of our business. we have developed a global platform for public self-expression and conversation in real time, and the market for our products and services is relatively new and may not develop as expected, if at all. despite our efforts to reduce barriers to consumption, people who are not our users may not understand the value of our products and services and new users may initially find our product confusing. there may be a perception that our products and services are only useful to users who tweet, or to influential users with large audiences. convincing potential and new users of the value of our products and services is critical to increasing our user base and to the success of our business. if we fail to educate potential users and potential advertisers about the value of our products and services, if the market for our platform does not develop as we expect or if we fail to address the needs of this market, our business will be harmed. we may not be able to successfully address these risks and challenges or others. failure to adequately address these risks and challenges could harm our business and cause our operating results to suffer. we have incurred significant operating losses in the past, and we may not be able to achieve or subsequently maintain profitability. since our inception, we have incurred significant operating losses, and, as of december 31, 2015, we had an accumulated deficit of $2.09 billion. although our revenue has grown rapidly, increasing from $28.3 million in 2010 to $2.22 billion in 2015, we expect that our revenue growth rate will slow in the future as a result of a variety of factors, including the decline in the growth rate of our user base. we believe that our future revenue growth will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract new users, increase user engagement and ad engagement, increase our brand awareness, compete effectively, maximize our sales efforts, demonstrate a positive return on investment for advertisers, successfully develop new products and services and expand internationally. accordingly, you should not rely on the revenue growth of any prior quarterly or annual period as an indication of our future performance. we also expect our costs to increase in future periods as we continue to expend substantial financial resources on: 17 our technology infrastructure; research and development for our products and services; sales and marketing; domestic and international expansion efforts, including the real estate and facilities costs associated with such expansions; attracting and retaining talented employees; strategic opportunities, including commercial relationships and acquisitions; and general administration, including personnel costs and legal and accounting expenses related to being a public company. these investments may not result in increased revenue or growth in our business. if we are unable to generate adequate revenue growth and to manage our expenses, we may continue to incur significant losses in the future and may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to our products and services on the internet by our users, platform partners and advertisers. if we or our users experience disruptions in internet service or if internet service providers are able to block, degrade or charge for access to our products and services, we could incur additional expenses and the loss of users and advertisers. we depend on the ability of our users, platform partners and advertisers to access the internet. currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant market power in the broadband and internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies, government-owned service providers, device manufacturers and operating system providers, any of whom could take actions that degrade, disrupt or increase the cost of user access to our products or services, which would, in turn, negatively impact our business. the adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the internet, including laws or practices limiting internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for, or the usage of, our products and services, increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our operating results. for example, access to twitter is blocked in china and has been intermittently blocked in turkey in 2014 and 2015. we also rely on other companies to maintain reliable network systems that provide adequate speed, data capacity and security to us and our users. as the internet continues to experience growth in the number of users, frequency of use and amount of data transmitted, the internet infrastructure that we and our users rely on may be unable to support the demands placed upon it. the failure of the internet infrastructure that we or our users rely on, even for a short period of time, could undermine our operations and harm our operating results. 18 our new products, product features, services and initiatives and changes to existing products, services and initiativ es could fail to attract users, platform partners and advertisers or generate revenue. our ability to increase the size and engagement of our user base, attract platform partners and advertisers and generate revenue will depend in part on our ability to improve existing products and services and create successful new products and services, both independently and in conjunction with third parties. we may introduce significant changes to our existing products and services or develop and introduce new and unproven products and services, including technologies with which we have little or no prior development or operating experience. for example, in 2015, we introduced periscope, a mobile application that lets users share and experience live video from their mobile phones and in 2013, we introduced vine, a mobile application that enables users to create and distribute videos that are up to six seconds in length, and #music, a mobile application that helped users discover new music and artists based on twitter data profiles which we discontinued in 2014. also, we recently introduced new features to twitter such as moments , a curated collection of tweets, photos, videos, vines and periscope broadcasts about current news stories or events; while you were away, which surfaces tweets a logged-in user may have missed since last accessing twitter; and instant timeline, which helps create a timeline for new users as well as new features to our promoted tweets like promoted video ads. if new or enhanced products, product features or services fail to engage users, platform partners and advertisers, we may fail to attract or retain users or to generate sufficient revenue or operating profit to justify our investments, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. in addition, we have launched and expect to continue to launch strategic initiatives, such as the nielsen twitter tv rating, that do not directly generate revenue but which we believe will enhance our attractiveness to users, platform partners and advertisers. in the future, we may invest in new products, product features, services and initiatives to generate revenue, but there is no guarantee these approaches will be successful. we may not be successful in future efforts to generate revenue from our new products or services. if our strategic initiatives do not enhance our ability to monetize our existing products and services or enable us to develop new approaches to monetization, we may not be able to maintain or grow our revenue or recover any associated development costs and our operating results could be adversely affected. spam could diminish the user experience on our platform, which could damage our reputation and deter our current and potential users from using our products and services. spam on twitter refers to a range of abusive activities that are prohibited by our terms of service and is generally defined as unsolicited, repeated actions that negatively impact other users with the general goal of drawing user attention to a given account, site, product or idea. this includes posting large numbers of unsolicited mentions of a user, duplicate tweets, misleading links (e.g., to malware or click-jacking pages) or other false or misleading content, and aggressively following and un-following accounts, adding users to lists, sending invitations, retweeting and favoriting tweets to inappropriately attract attention. our terms of service also prohibit the creation of serial or bulk accounts, both manually or using automation, for disruptive or abusive purposes, such as to tweet spam or to artificially inflate the popularity of users seeking to promote themselves on twitter. although we continue to invest resources to reduce spam on twitter, we expect spammers will continue to seek ways to act inappropriately on our platform. in addition, we expect that increases in the number of users on our platform will result in increased efforts by spammers to misuse our platform. we continuously combat spam, including by suspending or terminating accounts we believe to be spammers and launching algorithmic changes focused on curbing abusive activities. our actions to combat spam require the diversion of significant time and focus of our engineering team from improving our products and services. if spam increases on twitter, this could hurt our reputation for delivering relevant content or reduce user growth and user engagement and result in continuing operational cost to us. 19 if we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business and operating results c ould be harmed. we expect to invest in our headcount and operations, which will continue to place significant demands on our management, operational and financial infrastructure. as of december 31, 2015, we had approximately 3,900 full-time employees, an increase of approximately 260 full-time employees since december 31, 2014. we intend to continue to make investments to expand our operations, research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative organizations, as well as our international operations. we face significant competition for employees, particularly engineers, designers and product managers, from other internet and high-growth companies, which include both publicly-traded and privately-held companies, and we may not be able to hire new employees quickly enough to meet our needs. to attract highly skilled personnel, we have had to offer, and believe we will need to continue to offer, highly competitive compensation packages. in addition, as we have grown, we have significantly expanded our operating lease commitments. as we continue to evolve, we are subject to the risks of over-hiring, over-compensating our employees and over-expanding our operating infrastructure, and to the challenges of integrating, developing and motivating a rapidly growing employee base in various countries around the world. in addition, we may not be able to innovate or execute as quickly as a smaller, more efficient organization. if we fail to effectively manage our hiring needs and successfully integrate our new hires, our efficiency and ability to meet our forecasts and our employee morale, productivity and retention could suffer, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. providing our products and services to our users is costly and we expect our expenses to continue to increase in the future as we broaden our user base and increase user engagement, as users increase the amount of content they contribute, and as we develop and implement new features, products and services that require more infrastructure, such as our mobile video products, vine and periscope. in addition, our operating expenses, such as our research and development expenses and sales and marketing expenses, have grown rapidly as we have expanded our business. historically, our costs have increased each year due to these factors and we expect to continue to incur increasing costs to support our anticipated future growth. we expect to continue to invest in our infrastructure so that we can provide our products and services rapidly and reliably to users around the world, including in countries where we do not expect significant near-term monetization. continued growth could also strain our ability to maintain reliable service levels for our users and advertisers, develop and improve our operational, financial, legal and management controls, and enhance our reporting systems and procedures. as a public company we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. our expenses may grow faster than our revenue, and our expenses may be greater than we anticipate. managing our growth will require significant expenditures and allocation of valuable management resources. if we fail to achieve the necessary level of efficiency in our organization as it grows, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. we focus on product innovation and user engagement rather than short-term operating results. we encourage employees to quickly develop and help us launch new and innovative features. we focus on improving the user experience for our products and services, which includes protecting user privacy, and on developing new and improved products and services for the advertisers on our platform. we prioritize innovation and the experience for users and advertisers on our platform over short-term operating results. we frequently make product, product feature and service decisions that may reduce our short-term operating results if we believe that the decisions are consistent with our goals to improve the user experience and performance for advertisers, which we believe will improve our operating results over the long term. these decisions may not be consistent with the short-term expectations of investors and may not produce the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case our user growth and user engagement, our relationships with advertisers and our business and operating results could be harmed. in addition, our focus on the user experience may negatively impact our relationships with our existing or prospective advertisers. this could result in a loss of advertisers, which could harm our revenue and operating results. 20 our business and operating results may be harmed by a disruption in our service, or by our failure to timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology and infrastructure. one of the reasons people come to twitter is for real-time information. we have experienced, and may in the future experience, service disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, hardware failure, capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of people accessing our products and services simultaneously, computer viruses and denial of service or fraud or security attacks. for instance, in september 2015, we experienced a brief service outage during which twitter.com was inaccessible as a result, in part, of a software misconfiguration in one of our infrastructure components. additionally, although we are investing significantly to improve the capacity, capability and reliability of our infrastructure, we are not currently serving traffic equally through our co-located data centers that support our platform. accordingly, in the event of a significant issue at the data center supporting most of our network traffic, some of our products and services may become inaccessible to the public or the public may experience difficulties accessing our products and services. any disruption or failure in our infrastructure could hinder our ability to handle existing or increased traffic on our platform, which could significantly harm our business. as the number of our users increases and our users generate more content, including photos and videos hosted by twitter, we may be required to expand and adapt our technology and infrastructure to continue to reliably store, serve and analyze this content. it may become increasingly difficult to maintain and improve the performance of our products and services, especially during peak usage times, as our products and services become more complex and our user traffic increases. in addition, because we lease our data center facilities, we cannot be assured that we will be able to expand our data center infrastructure to meet user demand in a timely manner, or on favorable economic terms. if our users are unable to access twitter or we are not able to make information available rapidly on twitter, users may seek other channels to obtain the information, and may not return to twitter or use twitter as often in the future, or at all. this would negatively impact our ability to attract users, platform partners and advertisers and increase engagement of our users. we expect to continue to make significant investments to maintain and improve the capacity, capability and reliability of our infrastructure. to the extent that we do not effectively address capacity constraints, upgrade our systems as needed and continually develop our technology and infrastructure to accommodate actual and anticipated changes in technology, our business and operating results may be harmed. if we are unable to maintain and promote our brand, our business and operating results may be harmed. we believe that maintaining and promoting our brand is critical to expanding our base of users, platform partners and advertisers. maintaining and promoting our brand will depend largely on our ability to continue to provide useful, reliable and innovative products and services, which we may not do successfully. we may introduce new features, products, services or terms of service that users, platform partners or advertisers do not like, which may negatively affect our brand. additionally, the actions of platform partners may affect our brand if users do not have a positive experience using third-party applications or websites integrated with twitter or that make use of twitter content. our brand may also be negatively affected by the actions of users that are hostile or inappropriate to other people, by users impersonating other people, by users identified as spam, by users introducing excessive amounts of spam on our platform or by third parties obtaining control over users' accounts. for example, in april 2013, attackers obtained the credentials to the twitter account of the associated press news service through a phishing attack targeting associated press employees. the attackers posted an erroneous tweet from the associated press account reporting that there had been explosions at the white house, triggering a stock market decline, and focusing media attention on our brand and security efforts. maintaining and enhancing our brand may require us to make substantial investments and these investments may not achieve the desired goals. if we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. negative publicity could adversely affect our business and operating results. we receive a high degree of media coverage around the world. negative publicity about our company, including about our product quality and reliability, changes to our products and services, privacy and security practices, litigation, regulatory activity, the actions of our users or user experience with our products and services, even if inaccurate, could adversely affect our reputation and the confidence in and the use of our products and services. such negative publicity could also have an adverse effect on the size, engagement and loyalty of our user base and result in decreased revenue, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. 21 action by governments to restrict access to our products and services or censor twitter content could harm o ur business and operating results. governments have sought, and may in the future seek, to censor content available through our products and services, restrict access to our products and services from their country entirely or impose other restrictions that may affect the accessibility of our products and services for an extended period of time or indefinitely. for example, domestic internet service providers in china have blocked access to twitter, and other countries, including iran, libya, pakistan, turkey and syria, have intermittently restricted access to twitter, and we believe that access to twitter has been blocked in these countries primarily for political reasons. in addition, governments in these or other countries may seek to restrict access to our products and services based on our decisions around user content, providing user information in response to governmental requests, or other matters. in the event that access to our products and services is restricted, in whole or in part, in one or more countries or our competitors are able to successfully penetrate geographic markets that we cannot access, our ability to retain or increase our user base and user engagement may be adversely affected, and our operating results may be harmed. our future performance depends in part on support from platform partners and data partners. we believe user engagement with our products and services depends in part on the availability of applications and content generated by platform partners. for instance, in october 2014, we launched fabric, a platform that offers lightweight modular software development kits that help developers build more stable applications, generate revenue through twitter's mobile advertising exchange, mopub, and tap into twitter's sign-in systems for simpler identity verification. if platform partners focus their efforts on other platforms despite these and other efforts, the availability and quality of applications and content for our products and services may suffer. there is no assurance that platform partners will continue to develop and maintain applications and content for our products and services. if platform partners cease to develop and maintain applications and content for our products and services, user engagement may decline. in addition, we generate revenue from licensing our historical and real-time data to third parties. if any of these relationships are terminated or not renewed, or if we are unable to enter into similar relationships in the future, our operating results could be adversely affected. our international operations are subject to increased challenges and risks. we have offices around the world and our products and services are available in multiple languages. we expect to continue to expand our international operations in the future by opening offices in new jurisdictions and expanding our offerings in new languages. however, we have limited operating history outside the united states, and our ability to manage our business and conduct our operations internationally requires considerable management attention and resources and is subject to the particular challenges of supporting a rapidly growing business in an environment of multiple languages, cultures, customs, legal and regulatory systems, alternative dispute systems and commercial markets. international expansion has required and will continue to require us to invest significant funds and other resources. operating internationally subjects us to new risks and may increase risks that we currently face, including risks associated with: recruiting and retaining talented and capable employees in foreign countries and maintaining our company culture across all of our offices; providing our products and services and operating across a significant distance, in different languages and among different cultures, including the potential need to modify our products, services, content and features to ensure that they are culturally relevant in different countries; increased competition from largely regional websites, mobile applications and services that provide real-time communications and have strong positions in particular countries, which have expanded and may continue to expand their geographic footprint; differing and potentially lower levels of user growth, user engagement and ad engagement in new and emerging geographies; different levels of advertiser demand; greater difficulty in monetizing our products and services; compliance with applicable foreign laws and regulations, including laws and regulations with respect to privacy, data security, consumer protection, spam and content, and the risk of penalties to our users and individual members of management if our practices are deemed to be out of compliance; 22 longer payment cycles in some coun tries; credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; operating in jurisdictions that do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the united states; compliance with anti-bribery laws including, without limitation, compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, including by our business partners; currency exchange rate fluctuations; foreign exchange controls that might require significant lead time in setting up operations in certain geographic territories and might prevent us from repatriating cash earned outside the united states; political and economic instability in some countries; double taxation of our international earnings and potentially adverse tax consequences due to changes in the tax laws of the united states or the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate; and higher costs of doing business internationally, including increased accounting, travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs. if we are unable to manage the complexity of our global operations successfully, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. our products and services may contain undetected software errors, which could harm our business and operating results. our products and services incorporate complex software and we encourage employees to quickly develop and help us launch new and innovative features. our software, including any open source software that is incorporated into our code, has contained, and may now or in the future contain, errors, bugs or vulnerabilities. for example, in september 2015, we experienced a brief service outage during which twitter.com was inaccessible as a result, in part, of a software misconfiguration in one of our infrastructure components. additionally, in february 2016, we discovered, and corrected, a bug that affected our password recovery systems for about 24 hours. although this issue did not expose passwords or information that could be used directly to access an account, it had the potential to expose the email address and phone number associated with a small number of accounts (less than 10,000 active accounts). some errors in our software code may only be discovered after the product or service has been released. any errors, bugs or vulnerabilities discovered in our code after release could result in damage to our reputation, loss of users, loss of platform partners, loss of advertisers or advertising revenue or liability for damages or regulatory inquiries or lawsuits, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. our business is subject to complex and evolving u.s. and foreign laws and regulations. these laws and regulations are subject to change and uncertain interpretation, and could result in claims, changes to our business practices, monetary penalties, increased cost of operations or declines in user growth, user engagement or ad engagement, or otherwise harm our business. we are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the united states and abroad that involve matters central to our business, including privacy, rights of publicity, data protection, content regulation, intellectual property, competition, protection of minors, consumer protection, credit card processing and taxation. many of these laws and regulations are still evolving and being tested in courts. as a result, it is possible that these laws and regulations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from country to country and inconsistent with our current policies and practices and in ways that could harm our business, particularly in the new and rapidly evolving industry in which we operate. additionally, the introduction of new products or services may subject us to additional laws and regulations. 23 from time to time, governments, regulators and others have expressed concerns about whether our products, services or practices compromise the privacy of users and others. while we strive to comply with applicable data pro tection laws and regulations, as well as our own posted privacy policies and other obligations we may have with respect to privacy and data protection, the failure or perceived failure to so comply may result, and in some cases has resulted, in inquiries a nd other proceedings or actions against us by governments, regulators or others. moreover, foreign data protection, privacy, consumer protection, content regulation and other laws and regulations are often more restrictive than those in the united states. in particular, the european union and its member states traditionally have taken broader views as to types of data that are subject to privacy and data protection, and have imposed greater legal obligations on companies in this regard. a number of proposal are pending before federal, state and foreign legislative and regulatory bodies that could significantly affect our business. for example, regulation relating to the 1995 european union data protection directive is currently being considered by european legislative bodies that may include more stringent operational requirements for entities processing personal information and significant penalties for non-compliance. additionally, in october 2015, recently the court of justice of the european union invali dated the eu u.s. safe harbor framework. we rely upon the eu u.s. safe harbor framework to transfer certain personal information of european union residents to the united states, and revocation of the safe harbor framework could require us to create duplic ative, and potentially expensive, information technology infrastructure and business operations in europe or limit our ability to collect and use personal information collected in europe. u.s. and eu authorities reached a political agreement on february 2, 2016 regarding a new potential means for legitimizing personal data transfers from the european economic area to the u.s., the eu-u.s. privacy shield, but it is unclear whether the eu-u.s. privacy shield will be formally implemented and whether the eu-u.s . privacy shield, if formally implemented, would include significant data transfer restrictions that could impact our business or result in substantial expense to implement. any of these could disrupt our business. similarly, there have been a number of recent legislative proposals in the united states, at both the federal and state level, that would impose new obligations in areas such as privacy and liability for copyright infringement by third parties. the u.s. government, including the ftc and the department of commerce, has announced that it is reviewing the need for greater regulation for the collection of information concerning user behavior on the internet, including regulation aimed at restricting certain online tracking and targeted advertising practices. additionally, recent amendments to u.s. patent laws may affect the ability of companies, including us, to protect their innovations and defend against claims of patent infringement. we currently allow use of our platform without the collection of extensive personal information, such as age. we may experience additional pressure to expand our collection of personal information in order to comply with new and additional regulatory demands or we may independently decide to do so. if we obtain such additional personal information, we may be subject to additional regulation. regulatory investigations and settlements could cause us to incur additional expenses or change our business practices in a manner materially adverse to our business. we have been subject to regulatory investigations in the past, and expect to continue to be subject to regulatory scrutiny as our business grows and awareness of our brand increases. in march 2011, to resolve an investigation into various incidents, we entered into a settlement agreement with the ftc that, among other things, required us to establish an information security program designed to protect non-public consumer information and also requires that we obtain biennial independent security assessments. the obligations under the settlement agreement remain in effect until the later of march 2, 2031, or the date 20 years after the date, if any, on which the u.s. government or the ftc files a complaint in federal court alleging any violation of the order. we expect to continue to be the subject of regulatory inquiries, investigations and audits in the future by the ftc and other regulators around the world. it is possible that a regulatory inquiry, investigation or audit might result in changes to our policies or practices, and may cause us to incur substantial costs or could result in reputational harm, prevent us from offering certain products, services, features or functionalities, cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner materially adverse to our business. violation of existing or future regulatory orders, settlements or consent decrees could subject us to substantial monetary fines and other penalties that could negatively affect our financial condition and operating results. 24 if our security measures are breached, or if our products and services are subject to attacks that degrade or deny the ability of users to access our products and services, our products and services may be perceived as not being secure, use rs and advertisers may curtail or stop using our products and services and our business and operating results could be harmed. our products and services involve the storage and transmission of users' and advertisers' information, and security breaches expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and potential liability. we also work with third-party vendors to process credit card payments by our customers and are subject to payment card association operating rules. we experience cyber-attacks of varying degrees on a regular basis, and as a result, unauthorized parties have obtained, and may in the future obtain, access to our data or our users' or advertisers' data. for example, in february 2013, we disclosed that sophisticated unknown third parties had attacked our systems and may have had access to limited information for approximately 250,000 users. any systems failure or compromise of our security that results in the unauthorized access to or release of our users' or advertisers' data, such as credit card data, could significantly limit the adoption of our products and services, as well as harm our reputation and brand and, therefore, our business. our security measures may also be breached due to employee error, malfeasance or otherwise. additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees, users or advertisers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or our users' or advertisers' data or accounts, or may otherwise obtain access to such data or accounts. since our users and advertisers may use their twitter accounts to establish and maintain online identities, unauthorized communications from twitter accounts that have been compromised may damage their reputations and brands as well as ours. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. if an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed, our users and advertisers may be harmed, lose trust and confidence in us, decrease the use of our products and services or stop using our products and services in their entirety. we may also incur significant legal and financial exposure, including legal claims, higher transaction fees and regulatory fines and penalties. any of these actions could have a material and adverse effect on our business, reputation and operating results. our commerce efforts depend on third parties and are subject to evolving laws and regulations. since 2015, we have built commerce solutions that connect customers and retail partners. this includes enabling users to make purchases within a tweet, load offers directly to a credit or debit card, and browse or shop collections of products without leaving twitter. we have relationships with third parties that perform a variety of functions such as credit card processing, tokenization, vaulting, currency conversion, fraud prevention and data security audits. if these third parties do not perform adequately or if our relationships with these third parties terminate, our retail partners' ability to conduct business on twitter could be adversely affected and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. the laws and regulations related to e-commerce and payments are complex, subject to change, and vary across different jurisdictions in the united states and globally. as a result, we are required to spend significant time, effort and expense to comply with applicable laws and regulations. any failure or claim of our failure to comply, or any failure or claim of failure by the above-mentioned third parties to comply, could increase our costs or could result in liabilities. additionally, because twitter accepts payment via credit cards and is certified as a pci level 1 service provider, we are subject to payment card association operating rules and certification requirements, including the payment card industry data security standard. 25 we may face lawsuits or incur liability as a result of content published or made available through our products and services. we have faced and will continue to face claims relating to content that is published or made available through our products and services or third party products or services. in particular, the nature of our business exposes us to claims related to defamation, intellectual property rights, rights of publicity and privacy, illegal content, content regulation and personal injury torts. the laws relating to the liability of providers of online products or services for activities of their users remains somewhat unsettled, both within the united states and internationally. this risk may be enhanced in certain jurisdictions outside the united states where we may be less protected under local laws than we are in the united states. in addition, the public nature of communications on our network exposes us to risks arising from the creation of impersonation accounts intended to be attributed to our users or advertisers. we could incur significant costs investigating and defending these claims. if we incur material costs or liability as a result of these occurrences, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services and brand. our trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights are important assets. we rely on, and expect to continue to rely on, a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, trade dress, domain name, copyright, trade secret and patent laws, to protect our brand and other intellectual property rights. however, various events outside of our control pose a threat to our intellectual property rights, as well as to our products, services and technologies. for example, we may fail to obtain effective intellectual property protection, or effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are available. also, the efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient or effective, and any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged, which could result in them being narrowed in scope or declared invalid or unenforceable. there can be no assurance our intellectual property rights will be sufficient to protect against others offering products or services that are substantially similar to ours and compete with our business. we rely on non-patented proprietary information and technology, such as trade secrets, confidential information, know-how and technical information. while in certain cases we have agreements in place with employees and third parties that place restrictions on the use and disclosure of this intellectual property, these agreements may be breached, or this intellectual property may otherwise be disclosed or become known to our competitors, which could cause us to lose any competitive advantage resulting from this intellectual property. we are pursuing registration of trademarks and domain names in the united states and in certain jurisdictions outside of the united states. effective protection of trademarks and domain names is expensive and difficult to maintain, both in terms of application and registration costs as well as the costs of defending and enforcing those rights. we may be required to protect our rights in an increasing number of countries, a process that is expensive and may not be successful or which we may not pursue in every country in which our products and services are distributed or made available. we are party to numerous agreements that grant licenses to third parties to use our intellectual property, including our trademarks. for example, many third parties distribute their content through twitter, or embed twitter content in their applications or on their websites, and make use of our trademarks in connection with their services. if the licensees of our trademarks are not using our trademarks properly, it may limit our ability to protect our trademarks and could ultimately result in our trademarks being declared invalid or unenforceable. we have a policy designed to assist third parties in the proper use of our brand, trademarks and other assets, and we have an internal team dedicated to enforcing our policy and protecting our brand. our brand protection team routinely receives and reviews reports of improper and unauthorized use of the twitter brand, trademarks or assets and issues takedown notices or initiates discussions with the third parties to correct the issues. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to protect against the unauthorized use of our brand, trademarks or other assets. if we fail to maintain and enforce our trademark rights, the value of our brand could be diminished. there is also a risk that one or more of our trademarks could become generic, which could result in them being declared invalid or unenforceable. for example, there is a risk that the word tweet could become so commonly used that it becomes synonymous with any short comment posted publicly on the internet, and if this happens, we could lose protection of this trademark. 26 we also seek to obtain patent protection for some of our technology and as of december 31, 2015, we h ad 990 issued u.s. patents. we may be unable to obtain patent protection for our technologies, and our existing patents, and any patents that may be issued in the future, may not provide us with competitive advantages or distinguish our products and servic es from those of our competitors. in addition, any patents may be contested, circumvented, or found unenforceable or invalid, and we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing or otherwise violating them. effective protection of patent rights is expensive and difficult to maintain, both in terms of application and maintenance costs, as well as the costs of defending and enforcing those rights. our innovator's patent agreement, or ipa, also limits our ability to prevent infringement of our patents. in may 2013, we implemented the ipa, which we enter into with our employees and consultants, including our founders. the ipa, which applies to our current and future patents, allows us to assert our patents defensively. the ipa also allows us to assert our patents offensively with the permission of the inventors of the applicable patent. under the ipa, an assertion of claims is considered for a defensive purpose if the claims are asserted: (i) against an entity that has filed, maintained, threatened or voluntarily participated in a patent infringement lawsuit against us or any of our users, affiliates, customers, suppliers or distributors; (ii) against an entity that has used its patents offensively against any other party in the past ten years, so long as the entity has not instituted the patent infringement lawsuit defensively in response to a patent litigation threat against the entity; or (iii) otherwise to deter a patent litigation threat against us or our users, affiliates, customers, suppliers or distributors. in addition, the ipa provides that the above limitations apply to any future owner or exclusive licensee of any of our patents, which could limit our ability to sell or license our patents to third parties. while we may be able to claim protection of our intellectual property under other rights, such as trade secrets or contractual obligations with our employees not to disclose or use confidential information, we may be unable to assert our patent rights against third parties that we believe are infringing our patents, even if such third parties are developing products and services that compete with our products and services. for example, in the event that an inventor of one of our patents leaves us for another company and uses our patented technology to compete with us, we would not be able to assert that patent against such other company unless the assertion of the patent right is for a defensive purpose. in such event, we may be limited in our ability to assert a patent right against another company, and instead would need to rely on trade secret protection or the contractual obligation of the inventor to us not to disclose or use our confidential information. in addition, the terms of the ipa could affect our ability to monetize our intellectual property portfolio. significant impairments of our intellectual property rights, and limitations on our ability to assert our intellectual property rights against others, could harm our business and our ability to compete. also, obtaining, maintaining and enforcing our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our operating results. we are currently, and expect to be in the future, party to intellectual property rights claims that are expensive and time consuming to defend, and, if resolved adversely, could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. companies in the internet, technology and media industries are subject to litigation based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation or other violations of intellectual property or other rights. many companies in these industries, including many of our competitors, have substantially larger patent and intellectual property portfolios than we do, which could make us a target for litigation as we may not be able to assert counterclaims against parties that sue us for patent, or other intellectual property infringement. in addition, various non-practicing entities that own patents and other intellectual property rights often attempt to assert claims in order to extract value from technology companies. from time to time we receive claims from third parties which allege that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights. further, from time to time we may introduce new products, product features and services, including in areas where we currently do not have an offering, which could increase our exposure to patent and other intellectual property claims from competitors and non-practicing entities. in addition, although our standard terms and conditions for our promoted products and public apis do not provide advertisers and platform partners with indemnification for intellectual property claims against them, some of our agreements with advertisers, platform partners and data partners require us to indemnify them for certain intellectual property claims against them, which could require us to incur considerable costs in defending such claims, and may require us to pay significant damages in the event of an adverse ruling. such advertisers, platform partners and data partners may also discontinue use of our products, services and technologies as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenue and adversely impact our business. 27 we presently are involved in a number of intellectual property lawsuits, and as we face increasing competition and gain an increasingly high profil e, we expect the number of patent and other intellectual property claims against us to grow. there may be intellectual property or other rights held by others, including issued or pending patents, that cover significant aspects of our products and services , and we cannot be sure that we are not infringing or violating, and have not infringed or violated, any third-party intellectual property rights or that we will not be held to have done so or be accused of doing so in the future. any claim or litigation a lleging that we have infringed or otherwise violated intellectual property or other rights of third parties, with or without merit, and whether or not settled out of court or determined in our favor, could be time-consuming and costly to address and resolv e, and could divert the time and attention of our management and technical personnel. some of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do and are able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation to a greater degree and for longer periods of time than we could. the outcome of any litigation is inherently uncertain, and there can be no assurances that favorable final outcomes will be obtained in all cases. in addition, plaintiffs may seek, and we may become subject to, preliminary or provisional rulings in the course of any such litigation, including potential preliminary injunctions requiring us to cease some or all of our operations. we may decide to settle such lawsuits and disputes on terms that are unfavorable to u s. similarly, if any litigation to which we are a party is resolved adversely, we may be subject to an unfavorable judgment that may not be reversed upon appeal. the terms of such a settlement or judgment may require us to cease some or all of our operatio ns or pay substantial amounts to the other party. in addition, we may have to seek a license to continue practices found to be in violation of a third-party's rights. if we are required, or choose to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, such arran gements may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, and may significantly increase our operating costs and expenses. as a result, we may also be required to develop or procure alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense or discontinue use of the technology. an unfavorable resolution of the disputes and litigation referred to above could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. many of our products and services contain open source software, and we license some of our software through open source projects, which may pose particular risks to our proprietary software, products, and services in a manner that could have a negative effect on our business. we use open source software in our products and services and will use open source software in the future. in addition, we regularly contribute software source code to open source projects under open source licenses or release internal software projects under open source licenses, and anticipate doing so in the future. the terms of many open source licenses to which we are subject have not been interpreted by u.s. or foreign courts, and there is a risk that open source software licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to provide or distribute our products or services. additionally, we may from time to time face claims from third parties claiming ownership of, or demanding release of, the open source software or derivative works that we developed using such software, which could include our proprietary source code, or otherwise seeking to enforce the terms of the applicable open source license. these claims could result in litigation and could require us to make our software source code freely available, purchase a costly license or cease offering the implicated products or services unless and until we can re-engineer them to avoid infringement. this re-engineering process could require significant additional research and development resources, and we may not be able to complete it successfully. in addition to risks related to license requirements, use of certain open source software may pose greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of software. any of these risks could be difficult to eliminate or manage, and, if not addressed, could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we may require additional capital to support our operations or the growth of our business, and we cannot be certain that this capital will be available on reasonable terms when required, or at all. from time to time, we may need additional financing to operate or grow our business. our ability to obtain additional financing, if and when required, will depend on investor and lender demand, our operating performance, the condition of the capital markets and other factors, and we cannot assure you that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our existing stockholders may experience dilution. if we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support the operation or growth of our business could be significantly impaired and our operating results may be harmed. 28 we rely on assumptions and estimates to calculate certain of our key metrics, and real or perceived inaccuracies in such metrics may harm our reputation and negatively affec t our business. the number of our active users is calculated using internal company data that has not been independently verified. while these numbers are based on what we believe to be reasonable calculations for the applicable period of measurement, there are inherent challenges in measuring usage and user engagement across our large user base around the world. for example, there are a number of false or spam accounts in existence on our platform. we estimate that false or spam accounts represent less than 5% of our maus. however, this estimate is based on an internal review of a sample of accounts and we apply significant judgment in making this determination. as such, our estimation of false or spam accounts may not accurately represent the actual number of such accounts, and the actual number of false or spam accounts could be higher than we have currently estimated. we are continually seeking to improve our ability to estimate the total number of spam accounts and eliminate them from the calculation of our active users, but we otherwise treat multiple accounts held by a single person or organization as multiple users for purposes of calculating our active users because we permit people and organizations to have more than one account. additionally, some accounts used by organizations are used by many people within the organization. as such, the calculations of our active users may not accurately reflect the actual number of people or organizations using our platform. our metrics are also affected by mobile applications that automatically contact our servers for regular updates with no discernable user action involved, and this activity can cause our system to count the user associated with such a device as an active user on the day such contact occurs. the calculations of maus presented in this annual report on form 10-k may be affected by this activity. the impact of this automatic activity on our metrics varies by geography because mobile application usage varies in different regions of the world. in addition, our data regarding user geographic location is based on the ip address or phone number associated with the account when a user initially registered the account on twitter. that ip address or phone number may not always accurately reflect a user's actual location at the time of such user's engagement on our platform. we regularly review and may adjust our processes for calculating our internal metrics to improve their accuracy. we present and discuss our total audience based on both internal metrics and rely on data from google analytics, which measures logged-out visitors to our properties. our measures of user growth and user engagement may differ from estimates published by third parties or from similarly-titled metrics of our competitors due to differences in methodology. if advertisers, platform partners or investors do not perceive our user metrics to be accurate representations of our user base or user engagement, or if we discover material inaccuracies in our user metrics, our reputation may be harmed and advertisers and platform partners may be less willing to allocate their budgets or resources to our products and services, which could negatively affect our business and operating results. further, as our business develops, we may revise or cease reporting metrics if we determine that such metrics are no longer accurate or appropriate measures of our performance. for example, we stopped disclosing timeline views as we no longer believed that metric was helpful in measuring engagement on our platform. if investors, analysts or customers do not believe our reported measures of user engagement are sufficient or accurately reflect our business, we may receive negative publicity and our operating results may be harmed. our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, creativity and teamwork fostered by our culture, and our business may be harmed. we believe that our culture has been and will continue to be a key contributor to our success. from january 1, 2010 to december 31, 2015, we increased the size of our workforce by over 3,700 full-time employees, and we expect to continue to make investments in our employees. if we do not continue to develop our corporate culture or maintain our core values as we grow and evolve, we may be unable to foster the innovation, creativity and teamwork we believe we need to support our growth. 29 we rely in part on a pplication marketplaces and internet search engines to drive traffic to our products and services, and if we fail to appear high up in the search results or rankings, traffic to our platform could decline and our business and operating results could be adv ersely affected. we rely on application marketplaces, such as apple's app store and google's play, to drive downloads of our mobile applications. in the future, apple, google or other operators of application marketplaces may make changes to their marketplaces which make access to our products and services more difficult. we also depend in part on internet search engines, such as google, apple spotlight, bing and yahoo, to drive traffic to our website. for example, when a user types an inquiry into a search engine, we rely on a high organic search result ranking of our webpages in these search results to refer the user to our website. however, our ability to maintain high organic search result rankings is not within our control. our competitors' search engine optimization, or seo, efforts may result in their websites receiving a higher search result page ranking than ours, or internet search engines could revise their methodologies in a way that would adversely affect our search result rankings. if internet search engines modify their search algorithms in ways that are detrimental to us, or if our competitors' seo efforts are more successful than ours, the growth in our user base could slow. our website has experienced fluctuations in search result rankings in the past, and we anticipate similar fluctuations in the future. any reduction in the number of users directed to our mobile applications or website through application marketplaces and search engines could harm our business and operating results. more people are using devices other than personal computers to access the internet and new platforms to produce and consume content, and we need to continue to promote the adoption of our mobile applications, and our business and operating results may be harmed if we are unable to do so. the number of people who access the internet through devices other than personal computers, including mobile phones, tablets, video game consoles and television set-top devices, has increased dramatically in the past few years. in the three months ended december 31, 2015, over 85% of our advertising revenue was generated from mobile devices. since we generate a majority of our advertising revenue through users on mobile devices, we must continue to drive adoption of our mobile applications. however, in emerging markets like india and pakistan, most users use feature phones and communicate via sms messaging, both of which have limited functionality and neither of which may be able to take full advantage of our products and services offered on smartphone or our website or desktop applications. in addition, mobile users frequently change or upgrade their mobile devices. our business and operating results may be harmed if our users do not install our mobile application when they change or upgrade their mobile device. although we generate the majority of our advertising revenue from ad engagements on mobile devices, certain of our products and services, including promoted trends and promoted accounts, receive less prominence on our mobile applications than they do on our desktop applications. this has in the past reduced, and may in the future continue to reduce, the amount of revenue we are able to generate from these products and services as users increasingly access our products and services through mobile and alternative devices. in addition, as new devices and platforms are continually being released, users may consume content in a manner that is more difficult to monetize. if we are unable to develop products and services that are compatible with new devices and platforms, or if we are unable to drive continued adoption of our mobile applications, our business and operating results may be harmed. future acquisitions and investments could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and operating results. our success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our products, product features and services, and grow our business in response to changing technologies, user and advertiser demands, and competitive pressures. in some circumstances, we may determine to do so through the acquisition of complementary businesses and technologies rather than through internal development, including, for example, our acquisitions of periscope, a live-streaming video mobile application, vine, a mobile application that enables users to create and distribute videos that are up to six seconds in length, mopub, a mobile-focused advertising exchange; and tellapart, inc., a marketing technology company providing retailers and e-commerce advertisers with unique retargeting capabilities. the identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions. the risks we face in connection with acquisitions include: diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to addressing acquisition integration challenges; retention of key employees from the acquired company; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization; 30 integration of the acquired company's accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems and processes; the need to implement or improve controls, procedures, and policies at a business that prior to the acquisition may have lacked effective controls, procedures and policies; liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including intellectual property infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities; unanticipated write-offs or charges; and litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, users, former stockholders or other third parties. our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments, cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally. future acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses, incremental operating expenses or the impairment of goodwill, any of which could harm our financial condition or operating results. if we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. as a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, or the exchange act, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, as amended, or the sarbanes-oxley act, and the listing standards of the new york stock exchange. the sarbanes-oxley act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. in order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we have expended, and anticipate that we will continue to expend, significant resources, including accounting-related costs and significant management oversight. any failure to develop or maintain effective controls, or any difficulties encountered in their implementation or improvement, could cause us to be subject to one or more investigations or enforcement actions by state or federal regulatory agencies, stockholder lawsuits or other adverse actions requiring us to incur defense costs, pay fines, settlements or judgments. any such failures could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial and other information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. in addition, if we are unable to continue to meet these requirements, we may not be able to remain listed on the new york stock exchange. if currency exchange rates fluctuate substantially in the future, our operating results, which are reported in u.s. dollars, could be adversely affected. as we continue to expand our international operations, we will become more exposed to the effects of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. we incur expenses for employee compensation and other operating expenses at our international locations in the local currency, and accept payment from advertisers or data partners in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. since we conduct business in currencies other than u.s. dollars but report our operating results in u.s. dollars, we face exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. while we enter into foreign currency forward contracts with financial institutions to reduce the risk that our earnings may be adversely affected by the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on monetary assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of a subsidiary, exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and other currencies could have a material impact on our operating results. servicing our convertible senior notes may require a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow or the ability to raise the funds necessary to satisfy our obligations under such notes, and our future debt may contain limitations on our ability to pay cash upon conversion or repurchase of such notes. in 2014, we issued $935.0 million principal amount of 0.25% convertible senior notes due 2019, or the 2019 notes, and $954.0 million principal amount of 1.00% convertible senior notes due 2021, or the 2021 notes and together with the 2019 notes, the notes, in private placements to qualified institutional buyers. as of december 31, 2015, we had a total par value of $1.89 billion of outstanding notes. 31 holders of the notes will have the right under the indenture for the notes to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change before the relevant maturity date, in e ach case at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the fundamental change repurchase date. in addition, upon conversion of the notes, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of o ur common stock to settle such conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional shares), we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the notes being converted. moreover, we will be required to repay the notes in cash at t heir maturity, unless earlier converted or repurchased. our ability to refinance the notes, make cash payments in connection with conversions of the notes or repurchase the notes in the event of a fundamental change will depend on market conditions and our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. we also may not use the cash we have raised through the issuance of the notes in an optimally productive and profitable manner. however, since inception we have incurred significant operating losses and we historically had not been cash flow positive and may not be in the future. as a result, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all, at the time we are required to make repurchases of notes surrendered therefor or pay cash with respect to notes being converted or at their maturity and our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our future operations by increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions and by limiting or prohibiting our ability to obtain additional financing for future capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other purposes. in addition, if we are unable to make cash payments upon conversion of the notes we would be required to issue significant amounts of our common stock, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders. if we do not have sufficient cash to repurchase the notes following a fundamental change, we would be in default under the terms of the notes, which could seriously harm our business. in addition, the terms of the notes do not limit the amount of future indebtedness we may incur. if we incur significantly more debt, this could intensify the risks described above. our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, power outages, floods and other catastrophic events, and to interruption by man-made problems such as terrorism. a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire, flood or significant power outage could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. our headquarters and certain of our co-located data center facilities are located in the san francisco bay area, a region known for seismic activity. despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at our data centers could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. in addition, acts of terrorism and other geo-political unrest could cause disruptions in our business. all of the aforementioned risks may be further increased if our disaster recovery plans prove to be inadequate. we have implemented a disaster recovery program, which allows us to move production to a back-up data center in the event of a catastrophe. although this program is functional, we do not currently serve network traffic equally from each data center, so if our primary data center shuts down, there will be a period of time that our products or services, or certain of our products or services, will remain inaccessible to our users or our users may experience severe issues accessing our products and services. we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses, including the potential harm to our business that may result from interruptions in our ability to provide our products and services. 32 we may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities, which could advers ely impact our operating results. our income tax obligations are based in part on our corporate operating structure, including the manner in which we develop, value and use our intellectual property and the scope of our international operations. the tax laws applicable to our international business activities, including the laws of the united states and other jurisdictions, are subject to interpretation. the taxing authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our methodologies for valuing developed technology (or other intangible assets) or intercompany arrangements, which could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial condition and operating results. we are subject to review and audit by u.s. federal and state and foreign tax authorities. tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our financial position and operating results. in addition, our future income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. greater than anticipated tax expenses, or disputes with tax authorities, could adversely impact our operating results. if our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. under generally accepted accounting principles in the united states, or gaap, we review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. as of december 31, 2015, we had recorded a total of $1.26 billion of goodwill and intangible assets. an adverse change in market conditions, particularly if such change has the effect of changing one of our critical assumptions or estimates, could result in a change to the estimation of fair value that could result in an impairment charge to our goodwill or intangible assets. any such material charges may have a material negative impact on our operating results. our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited. as of december 31, 2015, we had u.s. federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $3.37 billion and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $1.34 billion. under sections 382 and 383 of internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, or the code, if a corporation undergoes an ownership change, the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes, such as research tax credits, to offset its post-change income and taxes may be limited. in general, an ownership change occurs if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by 5% shareholders that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. similar rules may apply under state tax laws. in the event that it is determined that we have in the past experienced an ownership change, or if we experience one or more ownership changes as a result of future transactions in our stock, then we may be limited in our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax assets to reduce taxes owed on the net taxable income that we earn. any such limitations on the ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax assets could adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. risks related to ownership of our common stock anti-takeover provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and delaware law contain provisions which could have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying, or preventing an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. among other things, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include provisions: creating a classified board of directors whose members serve staggered three-year terms; authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval and may contain voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings; 33 requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; and controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of board of directors and stockholder meetings. these provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents certain stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of our outstanding common stock not held by such 15% or greater stockholder. any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. the market price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment. the market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. since shares of our common stock were sold in our initial public offering in november 2013 at a price of $26.00 per share, the reported high and low sales prices of our common stock has ranged from $74.73 to $21.01, through december 31, 2015. in addition to the factors discussed in this risk factors section and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k, factors that could cause fluctuations in the market price of our common stock include the following: price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; volatility in the market prices and trading volumes of technology stocks; changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in our industry in particular; sales of shares of our common stock by us or our stockholders; our issuance of shares of our common stock, whether in connection with an acquisition or upon conversion of some or all of our outstanding notes; failure of securities analysts to maintain coverage of us, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts who follow our company, or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors; the financial or non-financial metric projections we may provide to the public, any changes in those projections or our failure to meet those projections; announcements by us or our competitors of new products or services; the public's reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the sec; rumors and market speculation involving us or other companies in our industry; actual or anticipated changes in our operating results or fluctuations in our operating results; actual or anticipated developments in our business, our competitors' businesses or the competitive landscape generally; litigation involving us, our industry or both, or investigations by regulators into our operations or those of our competitors; developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; announced or completed acquisitions of businesses or technologies by us or our competitors; new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; 34 changes in accounting st andards, policies, guidelines, interpretations or principles; any significant change in our management; and general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of our markets. in addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. this litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. the note hedge and warrant transactions may affect the value of our common stock. concurrently with the issuance of the notes, we entered into note hedge transactions with certain financial institutions, which we refer to as the option counterparties. the note hedge transactions are generally expected to reduce the potential dilution upon any conversion of the notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted notes, as the case may be. we also entered into warrant transactions with the option counterparties. however, the warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants. the option counterparties or their respective affiliates may modify their initial hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives contracts with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the notes (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of notes or following any repurchase of notes by us on any fundamental change repurchase date or otherwise). this activity could cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of our common stock. in addition, if any such convertible note hedge and warrant transactions fail to become effective, the option counterparties or their respective affiliates may unwind their hedge positions with respect to our common stock, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. if securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our common stock adversely, the price of our common stock and trading volume could decline. the trading market for our common stock is influenced, to some extent, by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us, our business, our industry, our market or our competitors. if any of the analysts who cover us change their recommendation regarding our common stock adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, the price of our common stock would likely decline. if any analysts who cover us were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause the price of our common stock or trading volume to decline. we do not expect to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future. we do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. in addition, our credit facility contains restrictions on payments including payments of cash dividends. consequently, investors may need to rely on sales of our common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61risk factors 10 risk factors investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, including the section titled management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making a decision to invest in our common stock. the risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only ones we face. if any of the risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. in that event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. 10 risks related to our business and our industry if we fail to grow our user base, or if user engagement or ad engagement on our platform decline, our revenue, business and operating results may be harmed. the size of our user base and our users' level of engagement are critical to our success. we had 319 million average maus in the three months ended december 31, 2016, representing a 4% increase from 305 million average maus in the three months ended december 31, 2015. dau for the three months ended december 31, 2016 grew 11% year over year. our financial performance has been and will continue to be significantly determined by our success in growing the number of users and increasing their overall level of engagement on our platform as well as the number of ad engagements; however, we expect revenue growth will lag behind user growth. we anticipate that our user growth rate will continue to slow over time as the size of our user base increases. for example, in general, a higher proportion of internet users in the united states uses twitter than internet users in other countries and, in the future, we expect our user growth rate in certain international markets, such as canada, france, germany, india, japan, mexico, the philippines, saudi arabia, and south korea, to continue to be higher than our user growth rate in the united states. to the extent our logged-in user growth rate slows, our success will become increasingly dependent on our ability to increase levels of ad engagement on twitter and monetizing our total audience on logged-out usage and syndicated properties as well as increasing revenue growth from the sale to advertisers of our advertising products which we place on twitter properties and third party publishers' websites, applications and other offerings. we generate a substantial majority of our revenue based upon engagement by our users with the ads that we display. if people do not perceive our products and services to be useful, reliable and trustworthy, we may not be able to attract users or increase the frequency of their engagement with our platform and the ads that we display. a number of consumer-oriented websites that achieved early popularity have seen their user bases or levels of engagement decline, in some cases precipitously. there is no guarantee that we will not experience a similar erosion of our user base or engagement levels. a number of factors could potentially negatively affect user growth and engagement, including if: users, including influential users, such as world leaders, government officials, celebrities, athletes, journalists, sports teams, media outlets and brands or certain age demographics, engage with other products, services or activities as an alternative to ours; we are unable to convince potential or new users of the value and usefulness of our products and services; there is a decrease in the perceived quantity, quality, usefulness or relevance of the content generated by our users; there are user concerns related to privacy and communication, safety, security, spam or other hostile or inappropriate usage or other factors; we fail to introduce new and improved products or services or if we introduce new or improved products or services that are not favorably received or that negatively affect user engagement; technical or other problems prevent us from delivering our products or services in a rapid and reliable manner or otherwise affect the user experience, including issues with connecting to the internet; users have difficulty installing, updating, or otherwise accessing our products or services on mobile devices as a result of actions by us or third parties that we rely on to distribute our products and deliver our services; we are unable to manage and prioritize information to ensure users are presented with content that is interesting, useful and relevant to them; users believe that their experience is diminished as a result of the decisions we make with respect to the frequency, relevance and prominence of ads that we display; there are adverse changes in our products or services that are mandated by, or that we elect to make to address, legislation, regulatory authorities or litigation, including settlements or consent decrees; we fail to provide adequate customer service to users; or we do not maintain our brand image or our reputation is damaged. we believe that returning to meaningful mau growth is dependent on improving our product and feature offerings to demonstrate our value proposition to a larger audience. if we are unable to increase our user base, user growth rate or user engagement, or if these metrics decline, our products and services could be less attractive to potential new users, as well as to advertisers, content partners and platform partners, which would have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. 11 if our users or content partners do not continue to contribute content or such content is not viewed as unique or engaging by other users, we may experience a decline in the number of users accessing our products and services and user engagement, which could result in the loss of content partners, advertisers, platform partners and revenue. our success depends on our ability to provide users of our products and services with unique and engaging content, which in turn depends on the content contributed by our users. we believe that one of our competitive advantages is the quality, quantity and real-time nature of the content on twitter, and that access to unique or real-time content is one of the main reasons users visit twitter. we seek to foster a broad and engaged user community, and we encourage world leaders, government officials, celebrities, athletes, journalists, sports teams, media outlets and brands to use our products and services to express their views to broad audiences. we also encourage media outlets to use our products and services to distribute their content. in addition, we license our premium live streaming video content from a variety of content providers. if these content providers are no longer willing or able to license us content upon economic and other terms that are acceptable to us, our ability to stream such content will be adversely affected and/or our costs could increase. if users, including influential users, do not continue to contribute content or content providers do not license content to twitter, and we are unable to provide users with unique, engaging and timely content, our user base and user engagement may decline. additionally, if we are not able to address user concerns regarding the safety and security of our products and services or if we are unable to successfully prevent abusive or other hostile behavior on our platform, the size of our user base and user engagement may decline. we rely on the sale of advertising services for the substantial majority of our revenue and a decline in the number of users, user growth rate, or user engagement, including as a result of the loss of world leaders, government officials, celebrities, athletes, journalists, sports teams, media outlets and brands who generate content on twitter, advertisers may deter new advertisers from using our products or services or cause current advertisers to reduce their spending with us or cease doing business with us, which would harm our business and operating results. we generate the substantial majority of our revenue from advertising. the loss of advertising revenue could harm our business. the substantial majority of our revenue is currently generated from third parties advertising on twitter. we generated approximately 90% and 89% of our revenue from advertising in the fiscal years ended december 31, 2015 and 2016, respectively. we generate substantially all of our advertising revenue through the sale of our three promoted products: promoted tweets, promoted accounts and promoted trends. as is common in our industry, our advertisers do not have long-term advertising commitments with us. in addition, many of our advertisers purchase our advertising services through one of several large advertising agency holding companies. to sustain or increase our revenue, we must add new advertisers and encourage existing advertisers to maintain or increase the amount of advertising inventory purchased through our platform and adopt new features and functionalities that we add to our platform. however, advertising agencies and potential new advertisers may view our promoted products or any new products or services as experimental and unproven, and we may need to devote additional time and resources to educate them about our products and services. advertisers also may choose to reach users through our free products and services, instead of our promoted products. advertisers will not continue to do business with us, or they will reduce the prices they are willing to pay to advertise with us, if we do not deliver ads in an effective manner, or if they do not believe that their investment in advertising with us will generate a competitive return on investment relative to alternatives, including online, mobile and traditional advertising platforms. in addition, competition for advertising is becoming increasingly more intense and our advertising revenue could be further impacted by escalating competition for digital ad spending as well as the re-evaluation of our revenue product feature portfolio, which could result in the de-emphasis of certain product features. since our initial public offering, our revenue growth has been primarily driven by increases in the number of our users and increases in our ad load driven by strong advertiser demand as well as other factors. to date, our available advertising inventory has been greater than demand. our future revenue growth, however, may be limited by available advertising inventory for specific ad types on certain days if we do not increase the number of our users, their engagement or monetize our larger global audience. our advertising revenue could be adversely affected by a number of other factors, including: decreases in user engagement with the ads on our platform and those that we serve off of our platform; decreases in the size of our user base or user growth rate; if we are unable to demonstrate the value of our promoted products to advertisers and advertising agencies or if we are unable to measure the value of our promoted products in a manner which advertisers and advertising agencies find useful; if we are unable to demonstrate the value of or attract video and video advertisements on our platform; 12 if our promoted products are not cost effective or not valued by certain types of advertisers or if we are unable to develop cost effective or valuable advertisi ng services for different types of advertisers; if we are unable to convince advertisers and brands to invest resources in learning to use our products and services and maintaining a brand presence on twitter; our advertisers' ability to optimize their campaigns or measure the results of their campaigns; product or service changes we may make that change the frequency or relative prominence of ads displayed on twitter or that detrimentally impact revenue in the near term with the goal of achieving long term benefits; our inability to increase advertiser demand and spend from new and existing advertisers as well as advertising inventory; our inability to increase the relevance of ads shown to users; our inability to help advertisers effectively target ads, including as a result of the fact that we do not collect extensive personal information from our users and that we do not have real-time geographic information for all of our users particularly for ads served through our app mobile-focused advertising exchange; decreases in the cost per ad engagement; failure to effectively monetize our growing international user base, our logged-out audience or our syndicated audience; loss of advertising market share to our competitors; the degree to which users access twitter content through applications that do not contain our ads; any arrangements or other partnerships with third parties to share our revenue; our new advertising strategies do not gain traction; the impact of new technologies that could block or obscure the display of our ads; adverse legal developments relating to advertising or measurement tools related to the effectiveness of advertising, including legislative and regulatory developments, and developments in litigation; our inability to create new products, product features and services that sustain or increase the value of our advertising services to both our advertisers and our users; changes to our products or development of new products or product features that decrease users' ad engagements or limit the types of user interactions that we count as ad engagements; the impact of fraudulent clicks or spam on our promoted products and our users; changes in the way our advertising is priced; and the impact of macroeconomic conditions and conditions in the advertising industry in general. the occurrence of any of these or other factors could result in a reduction in demand for our ads, which may reduce the prices we receive for our ads, either of which would negatively affect our revenue and operating results. 13 if we are unable to compete effectively for users and advertiser spend, our business and operating results could be harmed. competition for users of our products and services is intense. although we have developed a global platform that we believe is the best and fastest place to see what's happening and what people are talking about all around the world, we face strong competition in our business. we compete against many companies to attract and engage users, including companies which have greater financial resources and substantially larger user bases, such as facebook (including instagram and whatsapp), google (including youtube), microsoft (including linkedin), snap and yahoo, which offer a variety of internet and mobile device-based products, services and content. for example, facebook operates a social networking site with significantly more users than twitter and has been introducing features similar to those of twitter. in addition, google may use its strong position in one or more markets to gain a competitive advantage over us in areas in which we operate, including by integrating competing features into products or services they control. as a result, our competitors may draw users towards their products or services and away from ours. this could decrease the growth or engagement of our user base, which, in turn, would negatively affect our business. we also compete against largely regional social media and messaging companies that have strong positions in particular countries such as kakao and line. we believe that our ability to compete effectively for users depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: the popularity, usefulness, ease of use, performance and reliability of our products and services compared to those of our competitors; the amount, quality and timeliness of content generated by our users; the timing and market acceptance of our products and services; our ability, in and of itself and in comparison to the ability of our competitors, to develop new products and services and enhancements to existing products and services; the frequency and relative prominence of the ads displayed by us or our competitors; our ability to establish and maintain relationships with content partners; our ability to develop a reliable, scalable, secure, high-performance technology infrastructure that can efficiently handle increased usage globally; changes mandated by, or that we elect to make to address, legislation, regulatory authorities or litigation, including settlements and consent decrees, some of which may have a disproportionate effect on us; the application of antitrust laws both in the united states and internationally; the continued adoption of our products and services internationally; our ability to establish and maintain relationships with platform partners that integrate with our platform; acquisitions or consolidation within our industry, which may result in more formidable competitors; and our reputation and brand strength relative to our competitors. we also face significant competition for advertiser spend. the substantial majority of our revenue is currently generated through third parties advertising on twitter, and we compete against online and mobile businesses, including those referenced above, and traditional media outlets, such as television, radio and print, for advertising budgets. in addition, many advertisers, particularly branded advertisers, use marketing mix analyses to determine how to allocate their advertising budgets on an annual or bi-annual basis. accordingly, if we fail to demonstrate to such advertisers during the appropriate time period that we provide a better return on investment than our competitors do, we may lose the opportunity to secure, increase or sustain our share of the advertising budget allocated for a significant portion of the year until the next budget cycle. 14 we also compete with advertising networks, exchanges, demand side platforms and other platforms, such as google adsense, doubleclick ad exchange, yahoo ad e xchange, aol's ad.com and microsoft media network, for marketing budgets and in the development of the tools and systems for managing and optimizing advertising campaigns. in order to grow our revenue and improve our operating results, we must increase our share of spending on advertising relative to our competitors, many of which are larger companies that offer more traditional and widely accepted advertising products. in addition, some of our larger competitors have substantially broader product or servic e offerings and leverage their relationships based on other products or services to gain additional share of advertising budgets. we believe that our ability to compete effectively for advertiser spend depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: the size and composition of our user base relative to those of our competitors; our ad targeting and measurement capabilities, and those of our competitors; the timing and market acceptance of our advertising services, and those of our competitors; our marketing and selling efforts, and those of our competitors; the pricing of our promoted products relative to the advertising products and services of our competitors; the actual or perceived return our advertisers receive from our advertising services, and those of our competitors; and our reputation and the strength of our brand relative to our competitors. in recent years, there have been significant acquisitions and consolidation by and among our actual and potential competitors. we anticipate this trend of consolidation will continue, which will present heightened competitive challenges for our business. acquisitions by our competitors may result in reduced functionality of our products and services. for example, following facebook's acquisition of instagram, facebook disabled instagram's photo integration with twitter such that instagram photos were no longer viewable within tweets and users are instead re-directed to instagram to view instagram photos through a link within a tweet. as a result, our users may be less likely to click on links to instagram photos in tweets, and instagram users may be less likely to tweet or remain active users of twitter. any similar elimination of integration with twitter in the future, whether by facebook or others, may adversely impact our business and operating results. consolidation may also enable our larger competitors to offer bundled or integrated products that feature alternatives to our platform. reduced functionality of our products and services, or our competitors' ability to offer bundled or integrated products that compete directly with us, may cause our user growth, user engagement and ad engagement to decline and advertisers to reduce their spend with us. if we are not able to compete effectively for users and advertiser spend our business and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which makes them difficult to predict. our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and will fluctuate in the future. as a result, our past quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicators of future performance. our operating results in any given quarter can be influenced by numerous factors, many of which we are unable to predict or are outside of our control, including: our ability to grow our user base and user engagement; our ability to attract and retain advertisers, content partners and platform partners; the occurrence of planned significant events, such as the world cup, super bowl, champions league final, world series, olympics and the oscars, or unplanned significant events, such as natural disasters and political revolutions; the pricing of our products and services; the development and introduction of new products or services or changes in features of existing products or services; the impact of competitors or competitive products and services; 15 our ability to maintain or increase revenue; our ability to maintain or improve gross margins and operating margins; increases in research and development, marketing and sales and other operating expenses that we may incur to grow and expand our operations and to remain competitive; stock-based compensation expense; costs related to the acquisition of businesses, talent, technologies or intellectual property, including potentially significant amortization costs; system failures resulting in the inaccessibility of our products and services; breaches of security or privacy, and the costs associated with remediating any such breaches; adverse litigation judgments, settlements or other litigation-related costs, and the fees associated with investigating and defending claims; changes in the legislative or regulatory environment, including with respect to security, privacy or enforcement by government regulators, including fines, orders or consent decrees; fluctuations in currency exchange rates and changes in the proportion of our revenue and expenses denominated in foreign currencies; changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles; and changes in global business or macroeconomic conditions. given our limited operating history and the rapidly evolving markets in which we compete, our historical operating results may not be useful to you in predicting our future operating results. as our revenue growth rate slows, we expect that the seasonality in our business may become more pronounced and may in the future cause our operating results to fluctuate. for example, advertising spending is traditionally seasonally strong in the fourth quarter of each year and we believe that this seasonality affects our quarterly results, which generally reflect higher sequential advertising revenue growth from the third to fourth quarter compared to sequential advertising revenue growth from the fourth quarter to the subsequent first quarter. in addition, global economic concerns continue to create uncertainty and unpredictability and add risk to our future outlook. an economic downturn in any particular region in which we do business or globally could result in reductions in advertising revenue, as our advertisers reduce their advertising budgets, and other adverse effects that could harm our operating results. we depend on highly skilled personnel to grow and operate our business, and have seen high levels of attrition. if we are unable to hire, retain and motivate our personnel, we may not be able to grow effectively. our future success and strategy will depend upon our continued ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel, including senior management, engineers, designers and product managers. we depend on contributions from our employees, and in particular our senior management team, to execute efficiently and effectively. we do not have employment agreements other than offer letters with any member of our senior management or other key employee, and we do not maintain key person life insurance for any employee. we also face significant competition for employees, particularly in the san francisco bay area (where our headquarters is located), for engineers, designers and product managers from other internet and high-growth companies, which include both publicly-traded and privately-held companies. as a result, we may not be able to retain our existing employees or hire new employees quickly enough to meet our needs. at the same time, we are also experiencing high voluntary attrition, and the resulting influx of new leaders and other employees requires that we expend the time and resources necessary to recruit and retain talent, restructure our organizations, and train new employees. in addition, to attract highly and retain skilled personnel, we have had to offer, and believe we will need to continue to offer, highly competitive compensation packages. identifying, recruiting, training and integrating qualified individuals will require significant time, expense and attention. we may need to invest significant amounts of cash and equity to attract and retain new employees and we may never realize returns on these investments. in addition, changes to u.s. immigration and work authorization laws and regulations can be significantly affected by political forces and levels of economic activity. our business may be materially adversely affected if legislative or administrative changes to immigration or visa laws and regulations impair our hiring processes or projects involving personnel who are not citizens of the country where the work is to be performed. if we are not able to effectively attract and retain employees, we may not be able to innovate or execute quickly on our strategy and our ability to achieve our strategic objectives will be adversely impacted, and our business will be harmed. 16 we also believe that our culture and core values have been and will continue to be a key contributor to our success and our ability to foster the innovation, creativity and teamwork we believe we need to support our operations. as we continue to evolve, however, we are subj ect to the risks of over-hiring and over-compensating our employees, and to the challeng es of integrating, developing and motivating a n employee base that is located in various countries around the world. if we fail to effectively manage our hiring needs and successfully integrate our new hires, our efficiency and ability to meet our forecast and our culture, employee morale, productivity and retention could suffer, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. if we fail to monetize effectively in international markets, our revenue and our business will be harmed. we may not be able to monetize our products and services internationally as effectively as in the united states as a result of competition, advertiser demand, differences in the digital advertising market and digital advertising conventions, as well as differences in the way that users in different countries access or utilize our products and services. for example, a significant portion of users in emerging markets like india and pakistan use feature phones and communicate via sms messaging, both of which have limited functionality and neither of which may be able to take full advantage of our products and services offered on smartphone or our website or desktop applications. users who access twitter through sms messaging may monetize at lower rates than other users. differences in the competitive landscape in international markets may impact our ability to monetize our products and services. for example, in south korea we face intense competition from a messaging service offered by kakao, which offers some of the same communication features as twitter. the existence of a well-established competitor in an international market may adversely affect our ability to increase our user base, attract content partners, advertisers and platform partners and monetize our products in such market. we may also experience differences in advertiser demand in international markets. for example, during times of political upheaval, advertisers may choose not to advertise on twitter. certain international markets are also not as familiar with digital advertising in general, or in new forms of digital advertising such as our promoted products. further, we face challenges in providing certain advertising products, features or analytics in certain international markets, such as the european union, due to government regulation. our products and services may also be used differently abroad than in the united states. in particular, in certain international markets where internet access is not as rapid or reliable as in the united states, users tend not to take advantage of certain features of our products and services, such as rich media included in tweets, video or live streaming video. the limitation of mobile devices of users in emerging and other markets limits our ability to deliver certain features to those users and may limit the ability of advertisers to deliver compelling advertisements to users in these markets which may result in reduced ad engagements which would adversely affect our business and operating results. if our revenue from our international operations, and particularly from our operations in the countries and regions where we have focused our spending, does not exceed the expense of establishing and maintaining these operations, our business and operating results will suffer. in addition, our user base may expand more rapidly in international regions where we are less successful in monetizing our products and services. as our user base continues to expand internationally, we will need to increase revenue from the activity generated by our international users in order to grow our business. for example, users outside the united states constituted 79% of our average maus in the three months ended december 31, 2016, but our international revenue, as determined based on the billing location of our advertisers, was only 39% of our consolidated revenue in the three months ended december 31, 2016. our inability to successfully expand our business internationally could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 17 user growth and engagement depend upon effective interoperation with operating systems, networks, devices, web browsers an d standards that we do not control. we make our products and services available across a variety of operating systems and through websites. we are dependent on the interoperability of our products and services with popular devices, desktop and mobile operating systems and web browsers that we do not control, such as mac os, windows, android, ios, chrome and firefox. any changes, bugs or technical issues in such systems, devices or web browsers that degrade the functionality of our products and services, make it difficult for our users to access our content, limit our ability to target or measure the effectiveness of ads, impose fees related to our products or services or give preferential treatment to competitive products or services could adversely affect usage of our products and services. further, if the number of platforms for which we develop our product expands, it will result in an increase in our operating expenses. in order to deliver high quality products and services, it is important that our products and services work well with a range of operating systems, networks, devices, web browsers and standards that we do not control. in addition, because a majority of our users access our products and services through mobile devices, we are particularly dependent on the interoperability of our products and services with mobile devices and operating systems. we may not be successful in developing relationships with key participants in the mobile industry or in developing products or services that operate effectively with these operating systems, networks, devices, web browsers and standards. in the event that it is difficult for our users to access and use our products and services, particularly on their mobile devices, our user growth and engagement could be harmed, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. our ability to convince potential and new users of the value of our products and services is critical to increasing our user base and to the success of our business. we have developed a global platform that we believe is the best and fastest place to see what's happening and what people are talking about all around the world, but the market for our products and services is relatively new and may not develop as expected, if at all. despite our efforts to reduce barriers to consumption, people who are not our users may not understand the value of our products and services and new users may initially find our product confusing, which may make retention of such users more difficult. there may be a perception that our products and services are only useful to users who tweet, or to influential users with large audiences. convincing potential and new users of the value of our products and services is critical to increasing our user base and to the success of our business. if we fail to educate potential users and potential advertisers about the value of our products and services, if the market for our platform does not develop as we expect or if we fail to address the needs of this market, our business will be harmed. we may not be able to successfully address these risks and challenges or others. failure to adequately address these risks and challenges could harm our business and cause our operating results to suffer. 18 we have incurred significant operating losses in the past, and we may not be able to achieve or subsequently maintain profitability. since our inception, we have incurred significant operating losses, and, as of december 31, 2016, we had an accumulated deficit of $2.55 billion. although our revenue has grown rapidly, increasing from $664.9 million in 2013 to $2.53 billion in 2016, we expect that our revenue growth rate will slow in the future as a result of a variety of factors, including the decline in the growth rate of our user base. we believe that our future revenue growth will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract new users, increase user engagement and ad engagement, increase our brand awareness, compete effectively, maximize our sales efforts, demonstrate a positive return on investment for advertisers, and successfully develop new products and services. accordingly, you should not rely on the revenue growth of any prior quarterly or annual period as an indication of our future performance. our costs may increase in future periods as we continue to expend substantial financial resources on: our technology infrastructure; research and development for our products and services; sales and marketing; attracting and retaining talented employees; strategic opportunities, including commercial relationships and acquisitions; and general administration, including personnel costs and legal and accounting expenses related to being a public company. these investments may not result in increased revenue or growth in our business. if we are unable to generate adequate revenue growth and to manage our expenses, we may continue to incur significant losses in the future and may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to our products and services on the internet by our users, content partners, advertisers, and platform partners. if we or our users experience disruptions in internet service or if internet service providers are able to block, degrade or charge for access to our products and services, we could incur additional expenses and the loss of users and advertisers. we depend on the ability of our users, content partners, advertisers and platform partners to access the internet. currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant market power in the broadband and internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies, government-owned service providers, device manufacturers and operating system providers, any of whom could take actions that degrade, disrupt or increase the cost of user access to our products or services, which would, in turn, negatively impact our business. the adoption of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the internet, including laws or practices limiting internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for, or the usage of, our products and services, increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our operating results. for example, access to twitter is blocked in china and has been intermittently blocked in turkey in the last three years. we also rely on other companies to maintain reliable network systems that provide adequate speed, data capacity and security to us and our users. as the internet continues to experience growth in the number of users, frequency of use and amount of data transmitted, the internet infrastructure that we and our users rely on may be unable to support the demands placed upon it. the failure of the internet infrastructure that we or our users rely on, even for a short period of time, could undermine our operations and harm our operating results. 19 our new products, product features, services and initiatives and changes to existing products, services and initiatives could fail to attract users, content partners, advertisers and platform partners or generate revenue. our industry is subject to rapid and frequent changes in technology, evolving customer needs and the frequent introduction by our competitors of new and enhanced offerings. we must constantly assess the playing field and determine whether we need to improve or re-allocate resources amongst our existing products and services or create new ones (independently or in conjunction with third parties). our ability to increase the size and engagement of our user base, attract content partners, advertisers and platform partners and generate revenue will depend on those decisions. we may introduce significant changes to our existing products and services or develop and introduce new and unproven products and services, including technologies with which we have little or no prior development or operating experience. for example, in 2015, we introduced periscope, a mobile application that lets users share and experience live video from their mobile phones and in 2013, we introduced vine, a mobile application that enables users to create and distribute videos that are up to six seconds in length, which we discontinued in january 2017 but transitioned certain product features to the vine camera app. also, we recently introduced new features to twitter such as moments , a curated collection of tweets, photos, videos, and periscope broadcasts about current news stories or events; in case you missed it, which surfaces tweets a logged-in user may have missed since last accessing twitter; and instant timeline, which helps create a timeline for new users as well as new features to our promoted tweets like promoted video ads. if new or enhanced products, product features or services fail to engage users, content partners and advertisers, we may fail to attract or retain users or to generate sufficient revenue or operating profit to justify our investments, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. in addition, we have launched and expect to continue to launch strategic initiatives that do not directly generate revenue but which we believe will enhance our attractiveness to users, content partners and advertisers. in the future, we may invest in new products, product features, services and initiatives to generate revenue, but there is no guarantee these approaches will be successful. we may not be successful in future efforts to generate revenue from our new products or services. if our strategic initiatives do not enhance our ability to monetize our existing products and services or enable us to develop new approaches to monetization, we may not be able to maintain or grow our revenue or recover any associated development costs and our operating results could be adversely affected. if we fail to effectively manage changes to our business and operations, our business and operating results could be harmed. providing our products and services to our users is costly and we expect certain of our expenses to continue to increase in the future as we broaden our user base and increase user engagement, as users increase the amount of content they contribute, and as we develop and implement new features, products and services that require more infrastructure, in particular our video product features. in addition, our operating expenses, such as our research and development expenses and sales and marketing expenses, have grown rapidly as we have expanded our business. historically, our costs have increased each year due to these factors and we expect to continue to incur increasing costs to support our operations. we expect to continue to invest in our infrastructure so that we can provide our products and services rapidly and reliably to users around the world, including in countries where we do not expect significant near-term monetization. in the fourth quarter of 2016, we implemented a restructuring and reduction in force to continue to better align our operating expenses with our revenue, manage our costs better, and more efficiently manage our business. we intend to fully invest in our highest priorities, while eliminating investment in noncore areas. finding and maintaining the appropriate balance will require significant expenditures and allocation of valuable management resources. if we fail to achieve the necessary level of efficiency in our organization, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. 20 we focus on product innovation and user engagement rather t han short-term operating results. we encourage employees to quickly develop and help us launch new and innovative features. we focus on improving the user experience for our products and services, which includes protecting user privacy, and on developing new and improved products and services for the advertisers on our platform. we prioritize innovation and the experience for users and advertisers on our platform over short-term operating results. we frequently make product, product feature and service decisions that may reduce our short-term operating results if we believe that the decisions are consistent with our goals to improve the user experience and performance for advertisers, which we believe will improve our operating results over the long term. for example, we are investing in our new live-streaming video experiences, and we may not successfully monetize such experiences. these decisions may not be consistent with the short-term expectations of investors and may not produce the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case our user growth and user engagement, our relationships with advertisers and our business and operating results could be harmed. in addition, our focus on the user experience may negatively impact our relationships with our existing or prospective advertisers. this could result in a loss of advertisers, which could harm our revenue and operating results. our business and operating results may be harmed by a disruption in our service, or by our failure to timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology and infrastructure. one of the reasons people come to twitter is for real-time information. we have experienced, and may in the future experience, service disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, hardware failure, capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of people accessing our products and services simultaneously, computer viruses and denial of service or fraud or security attacks. for instance, in january 2016, we experienced a brief service outage during which twitter.com and twitter mobile clients were inaccessible as a result, in part, of a software misconfiguration in one of our infrastructure components. additionally, although we are investing significantly to improve the capacity, capability and reliability of our infrastructure, we are not currently serving traffic equally through our co-located data centers that support our platform. accordingly, in the event of a significant issue at the data center supporting most of our network traffic, some of our products and services may become inaccessible to the public or the public may experience difficulties accessing our products and services. any disruption or failure in our infrastructure could hinder our ability to handle existing or increased traffic on our platform, which could significantly harm our business. as the number of our users increases and our users generate more content, including photos and videos hosted by twitter, we may be required to expand and adapt our technology and infrastructure to continue to reliably store, serve and analyze this content. it may become increasingly difficult to maintain and improve the performance of our products and services, especially during peak usage times, as our products and services become more complex and our user traffic increases. in addition, because we lease our data center facilities, we cannot be assured that we will be able to expand our data center infrastructure to meet user demand in a timely manner, or on favorable economic terms. if our users are unable to access twitter or we are not able to make information available rapidly on twitter, users may seek other channels to obtain the information, and may not return to twitter or use twitter as often in the future, or at all. this would negatively impact our ability to attract users, content partners and advertisers and increase engagement of our users. we expect to continue to make significant investments to maintain and improve the capacity, capability and reliability of our infrastructure. to the extent that we do not effectively address capacity constraints, upgrade our systems as needed and continually develop our technology and infrastructure to accommodate actual and anticipated changes in technology, our business and operating results may be harmed. 21 if we are unable to maintain and pro mote our brand, our business and operating results may be harmed. we believe that maintaining and promoting our brand is critical to expanding our base of users, content partners and advertisers. maintaining and promoting our brand will depend largely on our ability to continue to provide useful, reliable and innovative products and services with a focus on a positive user experience, which we may not do successfully. we may introduce new features, products, services or terms of service that users, content partners, advertisers or platform partners do not like, which may negatively affect our brand. additionally, the actions of content partners may affect our brand if users do not have a positive experience using third-party applications or websites integrated with twitter or that make use of twitter content. our brand may also be negatively affected by the actions of users that are hostile or inappropriate to other people, by users impersonating other people, by users identified as spam, by use of our products or services to disseminate information that may be viewed as misleading (or intended to manipulate the opinions of our users), by users introducing excessive amounts of spam on our platform or by third parties obtaining control over users' accounts. for example, in the past, attackers obtained the credentials to twitter accounts through a phishing attack. maintaining and enhancing our brand may require us to make substantial investments and these investments may not achieve the desired goals. if we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. negative publicity could adversely affect our business and operating results. we receive a high degree of media coverage around the world. negative publicity about our company, including about our product quality and reliability, changes to our products and services, privacy and security practices, litigation, regulatory activity, the actions of our users (including the dissemination of information that may be viewed as misleading or as intended to manipulate the opinions of our users) or user experience with our products and services, even if inaccurate, could adversely affect our reputation and the confidence in and the use of our products and services. such negative publicity could also have an adverse effect on the size, engagement and loyalty of our user base and result in decreased revenue, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. action by governments to restrict access to our products and services or censor twitter content could harm our business and operating results. governments have sought, and may in the future seek, to censor content available through our products and services, restrict access to our products and services from their country entirely or impose other restrictions that may affect the accessibility of our products and services for an extended period of time or indefinitely. for example, domestic internet service providers in china have blocked access to twitter, and other countries, including iran, libya, pakistan, turkey and syria, have intermittently restricted access to twitter, and we believe that access to twitter has been blocked in these countries primarily for political reasons. in addition, governments in these or other countries may seek to restrict access to our products and services based on our decisions around user content, providing user information in response to governmental requests, or other matters. in the event that access to our products and services is restricted, in whole or in part, in one or more countries or our competitors are able to successfully penetrate geographic markets that we cannot access, our ability to retain or increase our user base and user engagement may be adversely affected, and our operating results may be harmed. our future performance depends in part on support from our content partners and data partners. we believe user engagement with our products and services depends in part on the availability of applications and content generated by our content or platform partners. for instance, in april 2016, we partnered with the national football league to deliver a free live digital video stream of nfl thursday night football games on twitter. if our content or platform partners focus their efforts on other platforms, the availability and quality of applications and content for our products and services may suffer. there is no assurance that our content or platform partners will continue to develop and maintain applications and content for our products and services. if our content or platform partners cease to develop and maintain applications and content for our products and services, user engagement may decline. in addition, we generate revenue from licensing our historical and real-time data to third parties. if any of these relationships are terminated or not renewed on economic and other terms that are acceptable to us, or if we are unable to enter into similar relationships in the future, our operating results could be adversely affected. 22 our international operations are subject to increased challenges and risks. we have offices around the world and our products and services are available in multiple languages. however, our ability to manage our business and conduct our operations internationally requires considerable management attention and resources and is subject to the particular challenges of supporting a rapidly growing business in an environment of multiple languages, cultures, customs, legal and regulatory systems, alternative dispute systems and commercial markets. our international operations have required and will continue to require us to invest significant funds and other resources. operating internationally subjects us to new risks and may increase risks that we currently face, including risks associated with: recruiting and retaining talented and capable employees in foreign countries and maintaining our company culture across all of our offices; providing our products and services and operating across a significant distance, in different languages and among different cultures, including the potential need to modify our products, services, content and features to ensure that they are culturally relevant in different countries; increased competition from largely regional websites, mobile applications and services that provide real-time communications and have strong positions in particular countries, which have expanded and may continue to expand their geographic footprint; differing and potentially lower levels of user growth, user engagement and ad engagement in new and emerging geographies; different levels of advertiser demand; greater difficulty in monetizing our products and services; compliance with applicable foreign laws and regulations, including laws and regulations with respect to privacy, data security, consumer protection, spam and content, and the risk of penalties to our users and individual members of management if our practices are deemed to be out of compliance; longer payment cycles in some countries; credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; operating in jurisdictions that do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the united states; compliance with anti-bribery laws including, without limitation, compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, including by our business partners; currency exchange rate fluctuations; foreign exchange controls that might require significant lead time in setting up operations in certain geographic territories and might prevent us from repatriating cash earned outside the united states; political and economic instability in some countries; double taxation of our international earnings and potentially adverse tax consequences due to changes in the tax laws of the united states or the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate; and higher costs of doing business internationally, including increased accounting, travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs. if we are unable to manage the complexity of our global operations successfully, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. 23 our products and services may contain undetected software errors, which could harm our business and operating results. our products and services incorporate complex software and we encourage employees to quickly develop and help us launch new and innovative features. our software, including any open source software that is incorporated into our code, has contained, and may now or in the future contain, errors, bugs or vulnerabilities. for example, in february 2016, we discovered, and corrected, a bug that affected our password recovery systems for about 24 hours. although this issue did not expose passwords or information that could be used directly to access an account, it had the potential to expose the email address and phone number associated with a small number of accounts (less than 10,000 active accounts). some errors in our software code may only be discovered after the product or service has been released. errors, vulnerabilities, or other design defects within the software on which we rely may result in a negative experience for users and advertisers who use our products, delay product introductions or enhancements, result in targeting, measurement, or billing errors, compromise our ability to protect the data of our users and/or our intellectual property or lead to reductions in our ability to provide some or all of our services. for example, in december 2016, we discovered and corrected a technical error in our android application that resulted in incorrect reporting of certain video advertisement metrics for approximately one month. any errors, bugs or vulnerabilities discovered in our code after release could result in damage to our reputation, loss of users, loss of content or platform partners, loss of advertisers or advertising revenue or liability for damages or other relief sought in lawsuits, regulatory inquiries or other proceedings, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. our business is subject to complex and evolving u.s. and foreign laws and regulations. these laws and regulations are subject to change and uncertain interpretation, and could result in claims, changes to our business practices, monetary penalties, increased cost of operations or declines in user growth, user engagement or ad engagement, or otherwise harm our business. we are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the united states and abroad that involve matters central to our business, including privacy, rights of publicity, data protection, content regulation, intellectual property, competition, protection of minors, consumer protection, credit card processing and taxation. many of these laws and regulations are still evolving and being tested in courts. as a result, it is possible that these laws and regulations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from country to country and inconsistent with our current policies and practices and in ways that could harm our business, particularly in the new and rapidly evolving industry in which we operate. additionally, the introduction of new products or services may subject us to additional laws and regulations. from time to time, governments, regulators and others have expressed concerns about whether our products, services or practices compromise the privacy of users and others. while we strive to comply with applicable data protection laws and regulations, as well as our own posted privacy policies and other obligations we may have with respect to privacy and data protection, the failure or perceived failure to so comply may result, and in some cases has resulted, in inquiries and other proceedings or actions against us by governments, regulators or others. moreover, foreign data protection, privacy, consumer protection, content regulation and other laws and regulations are often more restrictive than those in the united states. in particular, the european union and its member states traditionally have taken broader views as to types of data that are subject to privacy and data protection, and have imposed greater legal obligations on companies in this regard. a number of proposals are pending before federal, state and foreign legislative and regulatory bodies that could significantly affect our business. for example, in april 2016, european legislative bodies adopted the general data protection regulation to replace european union and national data protection legislation effective may 2018, which includes more stringent operational requirements for entities processing personal information and significant penalties for non-compliance, including fines of up to 20 million or 4% of total worldwide revenue. additionally, we rely on a variety of legal bases to transfer certain personal information outside of the european economic area, including the eu-us privacy shield framework, or privacy shield, and eu standard contractual clauses, or sccs. both the privacy shield and sccs are subject of legal challenges in european courts, and the absence of successor legal bases for continued data transfer could require us to create duplicative, and potentially expensive, information technology infrastructure and business operations in europe or limit our ability to collect and use personal information collected in europe. any of these changes to eu data protection law could disrupt our business. further, following a referendum in june 2016 in which voters in the united kingdom approved an exit from the eu, it is expected that the united kingdom government will initiate a process to leave the eu (often referred to as brexit ). brexit has created uncertainty with regard to the regulation of data protection in the united kingdom. in particular, it is unclear whether the united kingdom will enact data protection laws or regulations designed to be consistent with the pending eu general data protection regulation and how data transfers to and from the united kingdom will be regulated. 24 similarly, there have been a number of recent legislative proposals in the united states, at both the fede ral and state level, that would impose new obligations in areas such as privacy and liability for copyright infringement by third parties. the u.s. government, including the ftc and the department of commerce, has announced that it is reviewing the need fo r greater regulation for the collection of information concerning user behavior on the internet, including regulation aimed at restricting certain online tracking and targeted advertising practices. additionally, recent amendments to u.s. patent laws may a ffect the ability of companies, including us, to protect their innovations and defend against claims of patent infringement. additionally, we have built and made available certain commerce solutions that connect customers and retail partners and we have relationships with third parties that perform a variety of functions such as credit card processing, tokenization, vaulting, currency conversion, fraud prevention and data security audits. the laws and regulations related to e-commerce and payments are complex, subject to change, and vary across different jurisdictions in the united states and globally. as a result, we may be required to spend significant time, effort and expense to comply with applicable laws and regulations. any failure or claim of our failure to comply, or any failure or claim of failure by the above-mentioned third parties to comply, could increase our costs or could result in liabilities. additionally, because twitter accepts payment via credit cards and is certified as a pci level 1 service provider, we are subject to payment card association operating rules and certification requirements, including the payment card industry data security standard. we currently allow use of our platform without the collection of extensive personal information, such as age. we may experience additional pressure to expand our collection of personal information in order to comply with new and additional regulatory demands or we may independently decide to do so. if we obtain such additional personal information, we may be subject to additional regulation. regulatory investigations and settlements could cause us to incur additional expenses or change our business practices in a manner materially adverse to our business. we have been subject to regulatory investigations in the past, and expect to continue to be subject to regulatory scrutiny as our business grows and awareness of our brand increases. in march 2011, to resolve an investigation into various incidents, we entered into a settlement agreement with the ftc that, among other things, required us to establish an information security program designed to protect non-public consumer information and also requires that we obtain biennial independent security assessments. the obligations under the settlement agreement remain in effect until the later of march 2, 2031, or the date 20 years after the date, if any, on which the u.s. government or the ftc files a complaint in federal court alleging any violation of the order. we expect to continue to be the subject of regulatory inquiries, investigations and audits in the future by the ftc and other regulators around the world. it is possible that a regulatory inquiry, investigation or audit might result in changes to our policies or practices, and may cause us to incur substantial costs or could result in reputational harm, prevent us from offering certain products, services, features or functionalities, cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner materially adverse to our business. violation of existing or future regulatory orders, settlements or consent decrees could subject us to substantial monetary fines and other penalties that could negatively affect our financial condition and operating results. 25 if our security measures are breached, or if our products and services are subject to attacks that degrade or deny the ability of users to access our products and services, our products and services may be perceived as not being secure, users and advertise rs may curtail or stop using our products and services and our business and operating results could be harmed. our products and services involve the storage and transmission of users' and advertisers' information, and security breaches expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation and potential liability. we also work with third-party vendors to process credit card payments by our customers and are subject to payment card association operating rules. we and our third-party service providers experience cyber-attacks of varying degrees on a regular basis. for example, in october 2016, we experienced a service outage as a result of several distributed denial of service attacks on our domain name service provider, dyn. third parties may also gain access to twitter user names and passwords without attacking twitter directly by combining credential information from other recent breaches, using malware on victim machines that are stealing passwords for all sites, or a combination of both. in addition, some of our developers or other partners, such as third party applications to which our users have given permission to tweet on their behalf, may receive or store information provided by us or by our users through mobile or web applications integrated with us. if these third parties or developers fail to adopt or adhere to adequate data security practices, or in the event of a breach of their networks, our data or our users' data may be improperly accessed, used, or disclosed. as a result, unauthorized parties have obtained, and may in the future obtain, access to our data or our users' or advertisers' data. for example, we have previously disclosed that sophisticated unknown third parties had attacked our systems and may have had access to limited information for small subset of our users. any systems failure or actual or perceived compromise of our security that results in the unauthorized access to or release of our users' or advertisers' data, such as credit card data, could significantly limit the adoption of our products and services, as well as harm our reputation and brand and, therefore, our business. our security measures may also be breached due to employee error, malfeasance or otherwise. additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees, users or advertisers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data or our users' or advertisers' data or accounts, or may otherwise obtain access to such data or accounts. since our users and advertisers may use their twitter accounts to establish and maintain online identities, unauthorized communications from twitter accounts that have been compromised may damage their reputations and brands as well as ours. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. if an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed, our users and advertisers may be harmed, lose trust and confidence in us, decrease the use of our products and services or stop using our products and services in their entirety. we may also incur significant legal and financial exposure, including legal claims, higher transaction fees and regulatory fines and penalties. any of these actions could have a material and adverse effect on our business, reputation and operating results. we may face lawsuits or incur liability as a result of content published or made available through our products and services. we have faced and will continue to face claims relating to content that is published or made available through our products and services or third party products or services. in particular, the nature of our business exposes us to claims related to defamation, intellectual property rights, rights of publicity and privacy, illegal content, misinformation, content regulation and personal injury torts. the laws relating to the liability of providers of online products or services for activities of their users remains somewhat unsettled, both within the united states and internationally. this risk may be enhanced in certain jurisdictions outside the united states where we may be less protected under local laws than we are in the united states. in addition, the public nature of communications on our network exposes us to risks arising from the creation of impersonation accounts intended to be attributed to our users or advertisers. we could incur significant costs investigating and defending these claims. if we incur material costs or liability as a result of these occurrences, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. 26 our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value o f our products, services and brand. our trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights are important assets. we rely on, and expect to continue to rely on, a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, trade dress, domain name, copyright, trade secret and patent laws, to protect our brand and other intellectual property rights. however, various events outside of our control pose a threat to our intellectual property rights, as well as to our products, services and technologies. for example, we may fail to obtain effective intellectual property protection, or effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are available. also, the efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient or effective, and any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged, which could result in them being narrowed in scope or declared invalid or unenforceable. there can be no assurance our intellectual property rights will be sufficient to protect against others offering products or services that are substantially similar to ours and compete with our business. we rely on non-patented proprietary information and technology, such as trade secrets, confidential information, know-how and technical information. while in certain cases we have agreements in place with employees and third parties that place restrictions on the use and disclosure of this intellectual property, these agreements may be breached, or this intellectual property may otherwise be disclosed or become known to our competitors, which could cause us to lose any competitive advantage resulting from this intellectual property. we are pursuing registration of trademarks and domain names in the united states and in certain jurisdictions outside of the united states. effective protection of trademarks and domain names is expensive and difficult to maintain, both in terms of application and registration costs as well as the costs of defending and enforcing those rights. we may be required to protect our rights in an increasing number of countries, a process that is expensive and may not be successful or which we may not pursue in every country in which our products and services are distributed or made available. we are party to numerous agreements that grant licenses to third parties to use our intellectual property, including our trademarks. for example, many third parties distribute their content through twitter, or embed twitter content in their applications or on their websites, and make use of our trademarks in connection with their services. if the licensees of our trademarks are not using our trademarks properly, it may limit our ability to protect our trademarks and could ultimately result in our trademarks being declared invalid or unenforceable. we have a policy designed to assist third parties in the proper use of our brand, trademarks and other assets, and we have an internal team dedicated to enforcing our policy and protecting our brand. our brand protection team routinely receives and reviews reports of improper and unauthorized use of the twitter brand, trademarks or assets and issues takedown notices or initiates discussions with the third parties to correct the issues. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to protect against the unauthorized use of our brand, trademarks or other assets. if we fail to maintain and enforce our trademark rights, the value of our brand could be diminished. there is also a risk that one or more of our trademarks could become generic, which could result in them being declared invalid or unenforceable. for example, there is a risk that the word tweet could become so commonly used that it becomes synonymous with any short comment posted publicly on the internet, and if this happens, we could lose protection of this trademark. we also seek to obtain patent protection for some of our technology and as of december 31, 2016, we had 1,023 issued u.s. patents. we may be unable to obtain patent protection for our technologies, and our existing patents, and any patents that may be issued in the future, may not provide us with competitive advantages or distinguish our products and services from those of our competitors. in addition, any patents may be contested, circumvented, or found unenforceable or invalid, and we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing or otherwise violating them. effective protection of patent rights is expensive and difficult to maintain, both in terms of application and maintenance costs, as well as the costs of defending and enforcing those rights. 27 our innovator's patent agreeme nt, or ipa, also limits our ability to prevent infringement of our patents. in may 2013, we implemented the ipa, which we enter into with our employees and consultants, including our founders. the ipa, which applies to our current and future patents, allow us to assert our patents defensively. the ipa also allows us to assert our patents offensively with the permission of the inventors of the applicable patent. under the ipa, an assertion of claims is considered for a defensive purpose if the claims are as serted: (i) against an entity that has filed, maintained, threatened or voluntarily participated in a patent infringement lawsuit against us or any of our users, affiliates, customers, suppliers or distributors; (ii) against an entity that has used its pat ents offensively against any other party in the past ten years, so long as the entity has not instituted the patent infringement lawsuit defensively in response to a patent litigation threat against the entity; or (iii) otherwise to deter a patent litigati on threat against us or our users, affiliates, customers, suppliers or distributors. in addition, the ipa provides that the above limitations apply to any future owner or exclusive licensee of any of our patents, which could limit our ability to sell or li cense our patents to third parties. while we may be able to claim protection of our intellectual property under other rights, such as trade secrets or contractual obligations with our employees not to disclose or use confidential information, we may be una ble to assert our patent rights against third parties that we believe are infringing our patents, even if such third parties are developing products and services that compete with our products and services. for example, in the event that an inventor of one of our patents leaves us for another company and uses our patented technology to compete with us, we would not be able to assert that patent against such other company unless the assertion of the patent right is for a defensive purpose. in such event, we may be limited in our ability to assert a patent right against another company, and instead would need to rely on trade secret protection or the contractual obligation of the inventor to us not to disclose or use our confidential information. in addition, the terms of the ipa could affect our ability to monetize our intellectual property portfolio. significant impairments of our intellectual property rights, and limitations on our ability to assert our intellectual property rights against others, could harm our business and our ability to compete. also, obtaining, maintaining and enforcing our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our operating results. we are currently, and expect to be in the future, party to intellectual property rights claims that are expensive and time consuming to defend, and, if resolved adversely, could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. companies in the internet, technology and media industries are subject to litigation based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation or other violations of intellectual property or other rights. many companies in these industries, including many of our competitors, have substantially larger patent and intellectual property portfolios than we do, which could make us a target for litigation as we may not be able to assert counterclaims against parties that sue us for patent, or other intellectual property infringement. in addition, various non-practicing entities that own patents and other intellectual property rights often attempt to assert claims in order to extract value from technology companies. from time to time we receive claims from third parties which allege that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights. further, from time to time we may introduce new products, product features and services, including in areas where we currently do not have an offering, which could increase our exposure to patent and other intellectual property claims from competitors and non-practicing entities. in addition, although our standard terms and conditions for our promoted products and public apis do not provide advertisers and platform partners with indemnification for intellectual property claims against them, some of our agreements with advertisers, content partners, platform partners and data partners require us to indemnify them for certain intellectual property claims against them, which could require us to incur considerable costs in defending such claims, and may require us to pay significant damages in the event of an adverse ruling. such advertisers, content partners, platform partners and data partners may also discontinue use of our products, services and technologies as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenue and adversely impact our business. 28 we presently are involved in a number of intellectual property lawsuits, and as we face increasing competition and gain an increasingly high profile and develop new produ c ts , we expect the number of patent and other intellectual property claims against us to grow. there may be intellectual property or other rights held by others, including issued or pending patents, that cover significant aspects of our products and services, and we cannot be sure that we are not infringing or violating, and have not infringed or violated, any third-party intellectual property rights or that we will not be held to have done so or be accused of doing so in the future. any claim or litigation al leging that we have infringed or otherwise violated intellectual property or other rights of third parties, with or without merit, and whether or not settled out of court or determined in our favor, could be time-consuming and costly to address and resolve , and could divert the time and attention of our management and technical personnel. some of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do and are able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation to a greater degree a nd for longer periods of time than we could. the outcome of any litigation is inherently uncertain, and there can be no assurances that favorable final outcomes will be obtained in all cases. in addition, plaintiffs may seek, and we may become subject to, preliminary or provisional rulings in the course of any such litigation, including potential preliminary injunctions requiring us to cease some or all of our operations. we may decide to settle such lawsuits and disputes on terms that are unfavorable to us . similarly, if any litigation to which we are a party is resolved adversely, we may be subject to an unfavorable judgment that may not be reversed upon appeal. the terms of such a settlement or judgment may require us to cease some or all of our operation or pay substantial amounts to the other party. in addition, we may have to seek a license to continue practices found to be in violation of a third-party's rights. if we are required, or choose to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, such arrang ements may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, and may significantly increase our operating costs and expenses. as a result, we may also be required to develop or procure alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant e ffort and expense or discontinue use of the technology. an unfavorable resolution of the disputes and litigation referred to above could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. many of our products and services contain open source software, and we license some of our software through open source projects, which may pose particular risks to our proprietary software, products, and services in a manner that could have a negative effect on our business. we use open source software in our products and services and will use open source software in the future. in addition, we regularly contribute software source code to open source projects under open source licenses or release internal software projects under open source licenses, and anticipate doing so in the future. the terms of many open source licenses to which we are subject have not been interpreted by u.s. or foreign courts, and there is a risk that open source software licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to provide or distribute our products or services. additionally, we may from time to time face claims from third parties claiming ownership of, or demanding release of, the open source software or derivative works that we developed using such software, which could include our proprietary source code, or otherwise seeking to enforce the terms of the applicable open source license. these claims could result in litigation and could require us to make our software source code freely available, purchase a costly license or cease offering the implicated products or services unless and until we can re-engineer them to avoid infringement. this re-engineering process could require significant additional research and development resources, and we may not be able to complete it successfully. in addition to risks related to license requirements, use of certain open source software may pose greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of software. any of these risks could be difficult to eliminate or manage, and, if not addressed, could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we may require additional capital to support our operations or the growth of our business, and we cannot be certain that this capital will be available on reasonable terms when required, or at all. from time to time, we may need additional financing to operate or grow our business. our ability to obtain additional financing, if and when required, will depend on investor and lender demand, our operating performance, the condition of the capital markets and other factors, and we cannot assure you that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our existing stockholders may experience dilution. if we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support the operation or growth of our business could be significantly impaired and our operating results may be harmed. 29 we rely on assumptions and estimates to calculate certain of our key metrics, and real or perceived inaccuracies in such metrics may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. the number of our active users is calculated using internal company data that has not been independently verified. while these numbers are based on what we believe to be reasonable calculations for the applicable period of measurement, there are inherent challenges in measuring usage and user engagement across our large user base around the world. for example, there are a number of false or spam accounts in existence on our platform. we estimate that false or spam accounts represent less than 5% of our maus as of december 31, 2016. however, this estimate is based on an internal review of a sample of accounts and we apply significant judgment in making this determination. as such, our estimation of false or spam accounts may not accurately represent the actual number of such accounts, and the actual number of false or spam accounts could be higher than we have currently estimated. we are continually seeking to improve our ability to estimate the total number of spam accounts and eliminate them from the calculation of our active users, but we otherwise treat multiple accounts held by a single person or organization as multiple users for purposes of calculating our active users because we permit people and organizations to have more than one account. additionally, some accounts used by organizations are used by many people within the organization. as such, the calculations of our active users may not accurately reflect the actual number of people or organizations using our platform. our metrics are also affected by mobile applications that automatically contact our servers for regular updates with no discernable user-initiated action involved, and this activity can cause our system to count the user associated with such a device as an active user on the day such contact occurs. the calculations of maus and daus presented in this annual report on form 10-k may be affected by this activity. the impact of this automatic activity on our metrics varies by geography because mobile application usage varies in different regions of the world. in addition, our data regarding user geographic location is based on the ip address or phone number associated with the account when a user initially registered the account on twitter. that ip address or phone number may not always accurately reflect a user's actual location at the time of such user's engagement on our platform. we regularly review and may adjust our processes for calculating our internal metrics to improve their accuracy. we present and discuss our total audience based on both internal metrics and data from google analytics, which measures unique visitors to our properties. our measures of user growth and user engagement may differ from estimates published by third parties or from similarly-titled metrics of our competitors due to differences in methodology. if advertisers, content or platform partners or investors do not perceive our user metrics to be accurate representations of our user base or user engagement, or if we discover material inaccuracies in our user metrics, our reputation may be harmed and content partners, advertisers and platform partners may be less willing to allocate their budgets or resources to our products and services, which could negatively affect our business and operating results. further, as our business develops, we may revise or cease reporting metrics if we determine that such metrics are no longer accurate or appropriate measures of our performance. for example, we stopped disclosing timeline views as we no longer believed that metric was helpful in measuring engagement on our platform. if investors, analysts or customers do not believe our reported measures of user engagement are sufficient or accurately reflect our business, we may receive negative publicity and our operating results may be harmed. spam could diminish the user experience on our platform, which could damage our reputation and deter our current and potential users from using our products and services. spam on twitter refers to a range of abusive activities that are prohibited by our terms of service and is generally defined as unsolicited, repeated actions that negatively impact other users with the general goal of drawing user attention to a given account, site, product or idea. this includes posting large numbers of unsolicited mentions of a user, duplicate tweets, misleading links (e.g., to malware or click-jacking pages) or other false or misleading content, and aggressively following and un-following accounts, adding users to lists, sending invitations, retweeting and liking tweets to inappropriately attract attention. our terms of service also prohibit the creation of serial or bulk accounts, both manually or using automation, for disruptive or abusive purposes, such as to tweet spam or to artificially inflate the popularity of users seeking to promote themselves on twitter. although we continue to invest resources to reduce spam on twitter, we expect spammers will continue to seek ways to act inappropriately on our platform. in addition, we expect that increases in the number of users on our platform will result in increased efforts by spammers to misuse our platform. we continuously combat spam, including by suspending or terminating accounts we believe to be spammers and launching algorithmic changes focused on curbing abusive activities. our actions to combat spam require the diversion of significant time and focus of our engineering team from improving our products and services. if spam increases on twitter, this could hurt our reputation for delivering relevant content or reduce user growth and user engagement and result in continuing operational cost to us. 30 we rely in part on application marketplaces and internet search engines to drive traffic to our products and services, and if we fail to appear high up in the search results or rankings, traffic to our platform could decline and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. we rely on application marketplaces, such as apple's app store and google's play, to drive downloads of our mobile applications. in the future, apple, google or other operators of application marketplaces may make changes to their marketplaces which make access to our products and services more difficult or limit our use of data to provide targeted advertising. we also depend in part on internet search engines, such as google, apple spotlight, bing and yahoo, to drive traffic to our website. for example, when a user types an inquiry into a search engine, we rely on a high organic search result ranking of our webpages in these search results to refer the user to our website. however, our ability to maintain high organic search result rankings is not within our control. our competitors' search engine optimization, or seo, efforts may result in their websites receiving a higher search result page ranking than ours, or internet search engines could revise their methodologies in a way that would adversely affect our search result rankings. if internet search engines modify their search algorithms in ways that are detrimental to us, or if our competitors' seo efforts are more successful than ours, the growth in our user base could slow. our website has experienced fluctuations in search result rankings in the past, and we anticipate similar fluctuations in the future. any reduction in the number of users directed to our mobile applications or website through application marketplaces and search engines could harm our business and operating results. more people are using devices other than personal computers to access the internet and new platforms to produce and consume content, and we need to continue to promote the adoption of our mobile applications, and our business and operating results may be harmed if we are unable to do so. the number of people who access the internet through devices other than personal computers, including mobile phones, tablets, video game consoles and television set-top devices, has increased dramatically in the past few years. in the three months ended december 31, 2016, 89% of our advertising revenue was generated from mobile devices. since we generate a majority of our advertising revenue through users on mobile devices, we must continue to drive adoption of our mobile applications. however, in emerging markets like india and pakistan, a significant portion of users use feature phones and communicate via sms messaging, both of which have limited functionality and neither of which may be able to take full advantage of our products and services offered on smartphone or our website or desktop applications. in addition, mobile users frequently change or upgrade their mobile devices. our business and operating results may be harmed if our users do not install our mobile application when they change or upgrade their mobile device. although we generate the majority of our advertising revenue from ad engagements on mobile devices, certain of our products and services, including promoted trends and promoted accounts, receive less prominence on our mobile applications than they do on our desktop applications. this has in the past reduced, and may in the future continue to reduce, the amount of revenue we are able to generate from these products and services as users increasingly access our products and services through mobile and alternative devices. in addition, as new devices and platforms are continually being released, users may consume content in a manner that is more difficult to monetize. if we are unable to develop products and services that are compatible with new devices and platforms, or if we are unable to drive continued adoption of our mobile applications, our business and operating results may be harmed. acquisitions, divestitures and investments could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and operating results. our success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our products, product features and services, and grow our business in response to changing technologies, user and advertiser demands, and competitive pressures. in some circumstances, we may determine to do so through the acquisition of complementary businesses and technologies rather than through internal development, including, for example, our acquisitions of periscope, a live-streaming video mobile application, mopub, a mobile-focused advertising exchange; and tellapart, inc., a marketing technology company providing retailers and e-commerce advertisers with unique retargeting capabilities. the identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions. the risks we face in connection with acquisitions include: diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to addressing acquisition integration challenges; retention of key employees from the acquired company; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization; 31 integration of the acquired company's accounting, management information, human resources and other admini strative systems and processes; the need to implement or improve controls, procedures, and policies at a business that prior to the acquisition may have lacked effective controls, procedures and policies; liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including intellectual property infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities; unanticipated write-offs or charges; and litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, users, former stockholders or other third parties. our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments, cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally. future acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses, incremental operating expenses or the impairment of goodwill, any of which could harm our financial condition or operating results. in certain cases, we have also divested or stopped investing in certain products. in these cases, we have needed to and may, in the future, need to restructure operations, terminate employees and/or incur other expenses. we may not realize the expected benefits and cost savings of these actions and our results may be harmed. if we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. as a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, or the exchange act, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, as amended, or the sarbanes-oxley act, and the listing standards of the new york stock exchange. the sarbanes-oxley act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. in order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we have expended, and anticipate that we will continue to expend, significant resources, including accounting-related costs and significant management oversight. any failure to develop or maintain effective controls, or any difficulties encountered in their implementation or improvement, could cause us to be subject to one or more investigations or enforcement actions by state or federal regulatory agencies, stockholder lawsuits or other adverse actions requiring us to incur defense costs, pay fines, settlements or judgments. any such failures could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial and other information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. in addition, if we are unable to continue to meet these requirements, we may not be able to remain listed on the new york stock exchange. if currency exchange rates fluctuate substantially in the future, our operating results, which are reported in u.s. dollars, could be adversely affected. our international operations expose us to the effects of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. we incur expenses for employee compensation and other operating expenses at our international locations in the local currency, and accept payment from advertisers or data partners in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. since we conduct business in currencies other than u.s. dollars but report our operating results in u.s. dollars, we face exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. while we enter into foreign currency forward contracts with financial institutions to reduce the risk that our earnings may be adversely affected by the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on monetary assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of a subsidiary, exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and other currencies could have a material impact on our operating results. 32 servicing our convertible senior notes ma y require a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow or the ability to raise the funds necessary to satisfy our obligations under such notes, and our future debt may contain limitations on our ability to pay cash upon conversion or repurchase of such notes. in 2014, we issued $935.0 million principal amount of 0.25% convertible senior notes due 2019, or the 2019 notes, and $954.0 million principal amount of 1.00% convertible senior notes due 2021, or the 2021 notes and together with the 2019 notes, the notes, in private placements to qualified institutional buyers. as of december 31, 2016, we had a total par value of $1.89 billion of outstanding notes. holders of the notes will have the right under the indenture for the notes to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change before the relevant maturity date, in each case at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the fundamental change repurchase date. in addition, upon conversion of the notes, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle such conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional shares), we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the notes being converted. moreover, we will be required to repay the notes in cash at their maturity, unless earlier converted or repurchased. our ability to refinance the notes, make cash payments in connection with conversions of the notes or repurchase the notes in the event of a fundamental change will depend on market conditions and our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. we also may not use the cash we have raised through the issuance of the notes in an optimally productive and profitable manner. however, since inception we have incurred significant operating losses and we historically had not been cash flow positive and may not be in the future. as a result, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all, at the time we are required to make repurchases of notes surrendered therefor or pay cash with respect to notes being converted or at their maturity and our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our future operations by increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions and by limiting or prohibiting our ability to obtain additional financing for future capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other purposes. in addition, if we are unable to make cash payments upon conversion of the notes we would be required to issue significant amounts of our common stock, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders. if we do not have sufficient cash to repurchase the notes following a fundamental change, we would be in default under the terms of the notes, which could seriously harm our business. in addition, the terms of the notes do not limit the amount of future indebtedness we may incur. if we incur significantly more debt, this could intensify the risks described above. our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, power outages, floods and other catastrophic events, and to interruption by man-made problems such as terrorism. a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire, flood or significant power outage could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. our headquarters and certain of our co-located data center facilities are located in the san francisco bay area, a region known for seismic activity. despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at our data centers could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. in addition, acts of terrorism and other geo-political unrest could cause disruptions in our business. all of the aforementioned risks may be further increased if our disaster recovery plans prove to be inadequate. we have implemented a disaster recovery program, which allows us to move production to a back-up data center in the event of a catastrophe. although this program is functional, we do not currently serve network traffic equally from each data center, so if our primary data center shuts down, there will be a period of time that our products or services, or certain of our products or services, will remain inaccessible to our users or our users may experience severe issues accessing our products and services. we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses, including the potential harm to our business that may result from interruptions in our ability to provide our products and services. 33 we may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities, which could adversely impact our operating results. our income tax obligations are based in part on our corporate operating structure, including the manner in which we develop, value and use our intellectual property and the scope of our international operations. the tax laws applicable to our international business activities, including the laws of the united states and other jurisdictions, are subject to interpretation. the taxing authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our methodologies for valuing developed technology (or other intangible assets) or intercompany arrangements, which could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial condition and operating results. on october 5, 2015, the organization for economic cooperation and development (oecd), an international association of thirty four countries, including the u.s. and uk, released the final reports from its base erosion and profit shifting (beps) action plans. the beps recommendations covered a number of issues, including country-by-country reporting, permanent establishment rules, transfer pricing rules and tax treaties. future tax reform resulting from this development may result in changes to long-standing tax principles, which could adversely affect our effective tax rate or result in higher cash tax liabilities. we are subject to review and audit by u.s. federal and state and foreign tax authorities. tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our financial position and operating results. in addition, our future income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. greater than anticipated tax expenses, or disputes with tax authorities, could adversely impact our operating results. if our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. under generally accepted accounting principles in the united states, or gaap, we review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. as of december 31, 2016, we had recorded a total of $1.28 billion of goodwill and intangible assets. an adverse change in market conditions or financial results, particularly if such change has the effect of changing one of our critical assumptions or estimates, could result in a change to the estimation of fair value that could result in an impairment charge to our goodwill or intangible assets. any such material charges may have a material negative impact on our operating results. our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited. as of december 31, 2016, we had u.s. federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $3.47 billion and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $1.41 billion. under sections 382 and 383 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, or the code, if a corporation undergoes an ownership change, the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes, such as research tax credits, to offset its post-change income and taxes may be limited. in general, an ownership change occurs if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by 5% shareholders that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. similar rules may apply under state tax laws. in the event that it is determined that we have in the past experienced an ownership change, or if we experience one or more ownership changes as a result of future transactions in our stock, then we may be limited in our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax assets to reduce taxes owed on the net taxable income that we earn. any such limitations on the ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax assets could adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. 34 risks related to ownership of our common stock anti-takeover provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and delaware law contain provisions which could have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying, or preventing an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. among other things, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include provisions: creating a classified board of directors whose members serve staggered three-year terms; authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval and may contain voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings; requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; and controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of board of directors and stockholder meetings. these provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents certain stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of our outstanding common stock not held by such 15% or greater stockholder. any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. the market price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment. the market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. since shares of our common stock were sold in our initial public offering in november 2013 at a price of $26.00 per share, the reported high and low sales prices of our common stock has ranged from $74.73 to $13.72, through december 31, 2016. in addition to the factors discussed in this risk factors section and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k, factors that could cause fluctuations in the market price of our common stock include the following: price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; volatility in the market prices and trading volumes of technology stocks; changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in our industry in particular; sales of shares of our common stock by us or our stockholders; rumors and market speculation involving us or other companies in our industry; failure of securities analysts to maintain coverage of us, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts who follow our company, or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors; the financial or non-financial metric projections we may provide to the public, any changes in those projections or our failure to meet those projections; announcements by us or our competitors of new products or services; 35 the public's reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the sec; actual or anticipated changes in our operating results or fluctuations in our operating results; actual or anticipated developments in our business, our competitors' businesses or the competitive landscape generally; our issuance of shares of our common stock, whether in connection with an acquisition or upon conversion of some or all of our outstanding notes; litigation involving us, our industry or both, or investigations by regulators into our operations or those of our competitors; developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; announced or completed acquisitions of businesses or technologies by us or our competitors; new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidelines, interpretations or principles; any significant change in our management; and general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of our markets. in addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. any securities litigation can result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. we are currently subject to securities litigation and may experience more such litigation following any future periods of volatility. the note hedge and warrant transactions may affect the value of our common stock. concurrently with the issuance of the notes, we entered into note hedge transactions with certain financial institutions, which we refer to as the option counterparties. the note hedge transactions are generally expected to reduce the potential dilution upon any conversion of the notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted notes, as the case may be. we also entered into warrant transactions with the option counterparties. however, the warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants. the option counterparties or their respective affiliates may modify their initial hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives contracts with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the notes (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of notes or following any repurchase of notes by us on any fundamental change repurchase date or otherwise). this activity could cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of our common stock. in addition, if any such convertible note hedge and warrant transactions fail to become effective, the option counterparties or their respective affiliates may unwind their hedge positions with respect to our common stock, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. if securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our common stock adversely, the price of our common stock and trading volume could decline. the trading market for our common stock is influenced, to some extent, by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us, our business, our industry, our market or our competitors. if any of the analysts who cover us change their recommendation regarding our common stock adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, the price of our common stock would likely decline. if any analysts who cover us were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause the price of our common stock or trading volume to decline. 36 we do not expect to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future. we do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. in addition, our credit facility contains restrictions on payments including payments of cash dividends. consequently, investors may need to rely on sales of our common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62risk factors 11 risk factors investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, including the section titled management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making a decision to invest in our common stock. the risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only ones we face. if any of the risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. in that event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. risks related to our business and our industry if we fail to grow our user base, or if user engagement or ad engagement on our platform decline, our revenue, business and operating results may be harmed. the size of our user base and our users' level of engagement are critical to our success. we had 330 million average maus in the three months ended december 31, 2017, representing a 4% increase from 318 million average maus in the three months ended december 31, 2016 (see section entitled management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations note about our mau adjustment below). daus for the three months ended december 31, 2017 increased 12% year-over-year. our financial performance has been and will continue to be significantly determined by our success in growing the number of users and increasing their overall level of engagement on our platform as well as the number of ad engagements. we anticipate that our user growth rate will continue to slow over time as the size of our user base increases. for example, in general, a higher proportion of internet users in the united states uses twitter than internet users in other countries and, in the future, we expect our user growth rate in certain international markets to continue to be higher than our user growth rate in the united states. to the extent our logged-in user growth rate slows, our success will become increasingly dependent on our ability to increase levels of ad engagement on twitter. we generate a substantial majority of our revenue based upon engagement by our users with the ads that we display. if people do not perceive our products and services to be useful, reliable and trustworthy, we may not be able to attract users or increase the frequency of their engagement with our platform and the ads that we display. a number of consumer-oriented websites or platforms that achieved early popularity have seen their user bases or levels of engagement decline, in some cases precipitously. there is no guarantee that we will not experience a similar erosion of our user base or engagement levels. a number of factors could potentially negatively affect user growth and engagement, including if: users, including influential users, such as world leaders, government officials, celebrities, athletes, journalists, sports teams, media outlets and brands or certain age demographics, engage with other products, services or activities as an alternative to ours; we are unable to convince potential or new users of the value and usefulness of our products and services; there is a decrease in the perceived quantity, quality, usefulness or relevance of the content generated by our users or content partners; our content partners terminate their relationships with us or do not renew their agreements on economic or other terms that are favorable to us; there are user concerns related to privacy and communication, safety, security, spam or other hostile or inappropriate usage or other factors; 11 we fail to introduce new and improved products or services or if we introduce new or improved products or servic es that are not favorably received or that negatively affect user engagement; technical or other problems prevent us from delivering our products or services in a rapid and reliable manner or otherwise affect the user experience, including issues with connecting to the internet; users have difficulty installing, updating, or otherwise accessing our products or services on mobile devices as a result of actions by us or third parties that we rely on to distribute our products and deliver our services; we are unable to manage and prioritize information to ensure users are presented with content that is interesting, useful and relevant to them; users believe that their experience is diminished as a result of the decisions we make with respect to the frequency, format, relevance and prominence of ads or other content that we display; there are adverse changes in our products or services that are mandated by, or that we elect to make to address, laws, legislation, inquiries from legislative bodies, regulatory authorities or litigation, including settlements or consent decrees; we fail to provide adequate customer service to users; or we do not maintain our brand image or our reputation is damaged. we believe that meaningful growth in audience and engagement is dependent on improving our product and feature offerings to demonstrate our value proposition to a larger audience. if we are unable to increase our user base, user growth rate or user engagement, or if these metrics decline, our products and services could be less attractive to potential or new users, as well as to advertisers, content partners and platform partners, which would have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. if our users or content partners do not continue to contribute content or such content is not viewed as unique or engaging by other users, we may experience a decline in the number of users accessing our products and services and user engagement, which could result in the loss of content partners, advertisers, platform partners and revenue. our success depends on our ability to provide users of our products and services with unique and engaging content, which in turn depends on the content contributed by our users. we believe that one of our competitive advantages is the quality, quantity and real-time nature of the content on twitter, and that access to unique or real-time content is one of the main reasons users visit twitter. we seek to foster a broad and engaged user community, and we encourage world leaders, government officials, celebrities, athletes, journalists, sports teams, media outlets and brands to use our products and services to express their views to broad audiences. we also encourage media outlets to use our products and services to distribute their content. in addition, we license our premium live streaming video content from a variety of content providers. if these content providers are no longer willing or able to license us content upon economic and other terms that are acceptable to us, our ability to stream such content will be adversely affected and/or our costs could increase. if users, including influential users, do not continue to contribute content or content providers do not license content to twitter, and we are unable to provide users with unique, engaging and timely content, our user base and user engagement may decline. additionally, if we are not able to address user concerns regarding the safety and security of our products and services or if we are unable to successfully prevent abusive or other hostile behavior on our platform, the size of our user base and user engagement may decline. we rely on the sale of advertising services for the substantial majority of our revenue and a decline in the number of users, user growth rate, or user engagement, including as a result of the loss of world leaders, government officials, celebrities, athletes, journalists, sports teams, media outlets and brands who generate content on twitter, advertisers may deter new advertisers from using our products or services or cause current advertisers to reduce their spending with us or cease doing business with us, which would harm our business and operating results. 12 we generate the substantial majority of our revenue from advertising. the loss of advertising revenue could harm our business. the substantial majority of our revenue is currently generated from third parties advertising on twitter. we generated approximately 89% and 86% of our revenue from advertising in the fiscal years ended december 31, 2016 and 2017, respectively. we generate substantially all of our advertising revenue through the sale of our promoted products: promoted tweets, promoted accounts and promoted trends. as is common in our industry, our advertisers do not have long-term advertising commitments with us. in addition, many of our advertisers purchase our advertising services through one of several large advertising agency holding companies. to sustain or increase our revenue, we must add new advertisers and encourage existing advertisers to maintain or increase the amount of advertising inventory purchased through our platform and adopt new features and functionalities that we add to our platform. however, advertising agencies and potential new advertisers may view our promoted products or any new products or services we offer as experimental and unproven, and we may need to devote additional time and resources to educate them about our products and services. advertisers also may choose to reach users through our free products and services, instead of our promoted products. advertisers will not continue to do business with us, or they will reduce the prices they are willing to pay to advertise with us, if we do not deliver ads in an effective manner, or if they do not believe that their investment in advertising with us will generate a competitive return on investment relative to alternatives, including online, mobile and traditional advertising platforms. in addition, competition for advertising is becoming increasingly more intense and our advertising revenue could be further impacted by escalating competition for digital ad spending as well as the re-evaluation of our revenue product feature portfolio, which could result in the de-emphasis of certain product features. since our initial public offering, our revenue growth has been primarily driven by increases in the number of our users and increases in our ad load driven by strong advertiser demand as well as other factors. to date, our available advertising inventory has been greater than demand. our future revenue growth, however, may be limited by available advertising inventory for specific ad types on certain days if we do not increase the number of our users, their engagement or monetize our larger global audience. our advertising revenue also could be adversely affected by a number of other factors, including: decreases in user engagement with the ads on our platform and those that we serve off of our platform; decreases in the size of our user base or user growth rate; if we are unable to demonstrate the value of our promoted products to advertisers and advertising agencies or if we are unable to measure the value of our promoted products in a manner which advertisers and advertising agencies find useful or reliable; if we are unable to demonstrate the value of, or attract video and video advertisements, on our platform; decreases in the perceived quantity, quality, usefulness or relevance of the content generated by our users or content partners; if our promoted products are not cost effective or not valued by certain types of advertisers or if we are unable to develop cost effective or valuable advertising services for different types of advertisers; if we are unable to convince advertisers and brands to invest resources in learning to use our products and services and maintaining a brand presence on twitter; our advertisers' ability to optimize their campaigns or effectively and reliably measure the results of their campaigns; product or service changes we may make that change the frequency or relative prominence of ads displayed on twitter or that detrimentally impact revenue in the near term with the goal of achieving long term benefits; our inability to increase advertiser demand and spend from new and existing advertisers as well as advertising inventory; our inability to increase the relevance of ads shown to users; our inability to help advertisers effectively target ads, including as a result of the fact that we do not collect extensive personal information from our users and that we do not have real-time geographic information for all of our users particularly for ads served through our app mobile-focused advertising exchange; decreases in the cost per ad engagement; failure to effectively monetize our growing international user base, our logged-out audience or our syndicated audience; 13 loss of advertising market shar e to our competitors; the degree to which users access twitter content through applications that do not contain our ads; any arrangements or other partnerships with third parties to share our revenue; if our new advertising strategies do not gain traction; the impact of new technologies that could block or obscure the display of our ads; adverse legal developments relating to advertising or measurement tools related to our metrics or the effectiveness of advertising, including legislative and regulatory developments, and developments in litigation; our inability to create new products, product features and services that sustain or increase the value of our advertising services to both our advertisers and our users; changes to our products or development of new products or product features that decrease users' ad engagements or limit the types of user interactions that we count as ad engagements; the impact of fraudulent clicks or spam on our promoted products and our users; changes in the way our advertising is priced; and the impact of macroeconomic conditions and conditions in the advertising industry in general. the occurrence of any of these or other factors could result in a reduction in demand for our ads, which may reduce the prices we receive for our ads, either of which would negatively affect our revenue and operating results. if we are unable to compete effectively for users and advertiser spend, our business and operating results could be harmed. competition for users of our products and services is intense. although we have developed a global platform that we believe is the best and fastest place to see what's happening and what people are talking about all around the world, we face strong competition in our business. we compete against many companies to attract and engage users, including companies which have greater financial resources and substantially larger user bases, such as facebook (including instagram and whatsapp), alphabet (including google and youtube), microsoft (including linkedin), snap and oath (formerly known as yahoo), which offer a variety of internet and mobile device-based products, services and content. for example, facebook operates a social networking site with significantly more users than twitter and has been introducing features similar to those of twitter. in addition, alphabet may use its strong position in one or more markets to gain a competitive advantage over us in areas in which we operate, including by integrating competing features into products or services they control. as a result, our competitors may draw users towards their products or services and away from ours. this could decrease the growth or engagement of our user base, which, in turn, would negatively affect our business. we also compete against largely regional social media and messaging companies that have strong positions in particular countries such as kakao and line. we believe that our ability to compete effectively for users depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: the popularity, usefulness, ease of use, performance and reliability of our products and services compared to those of our competitors; the amount, quality and timeliness of content generated by our users and content partners; the timing and market acceptance of our products and services; our ability, in and of itself and in comparison to the ability of our competitors, to develop new products and services and enhancements to existing products and services; the frequency and relative prominence of the ads displayed by us or our competitors; our ability to establish and maintain relationships with content partners; our ability to develop a reliable, scalable, secure, high-performance technology infrastructure that can efficiently handle increased usage globally; 14 changes mandated by, or that we elect to make to address, legislation, regulatory authorities or litigation, including settlements and consent decrees, some of which may have a disproportionate effect on us; the application of antitrust laws both in the united states and internationally; the continued adoption of our products and services internationally; our ability to establish and maintain relationships with platform partners that integrate with our platform; acquisitions or consolidation within our industry, which may result in more formidable competitors; and our reputation and brand strength relative to our competitors. we also face significant competition for advertiser spend. the substantial majority of our revenue is currently generated through third parties advertising on twitter, and we compete against online and mobile businesses, including those referenced above, and traditional media outlets, such as television, radio and print, for advertising budgets. in addition, many advertisers, particularly branded advertisers, use marketing mix analyses to determine how to allocate their advertising budgets on an annual or bi-annual basis. accordingly, if we fail to demonstrate to such advertisers during the appropriate time period that we provide a better return on investment than our competitors do, we may lose the opportunity to secure, increase or sustain our share of the advertising budget allocated for a significant portion of the year until the next budget cycle. we also compete with advertising networks, exchanges, demand side platforms and other platforms, such as google adsense, doubleclick ad exchange, nexage and brightroll ad exchanges, oath (formerly known as aol's ad.com) and microsoft media network, for marketing budgets and in the development of the tools and systems for managing and optimizing advertising campaigns. in order to grow our revenue and improve our operating results, we must increase our share of spending on advertising relative to our competitors, many of which are larger companies that offer more traditional and widely accepted advertising products. in addition, some of our larger competitors have substantially broader product or service offerings and leverage their relationships based on other products or services to gain additional share of advertising budgets. we believe that our ability to compete effectively for advertiser spend depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: the size and composition of our user base relative to those of our competitors; our ad targeting and measurement capabilities, and those of our competitors; the timing and market acceptance of our advertising services, and those of our competitors; our marketing and selling efforts, and those of our competitors; the pricing of our advertising products and services relative to those of our competitors; the actual or perceived return our advertisers receive from our advertising services, and those of our competitors; and our reputation and the strength of our brand relative to our competitors. in recent years, there have been significant acquisitions and consolidation by and among our actual and potential competitors. we anticipate this trend of consolidation will continue, which will present heightened competitive challenges for our business. acquisitions by our competitors may result in reduced functionality of our products and services. for example, following facebook's acquisition of instagram, facebook disabled instagram's photo integration with twitter such that instagram photos were no longer viewable within tweets and users are instead re-directed to instagram to view instagram photos through a link within a tweet. as a result, our users may be less likely to click on links to instagram photos in tweets, and instagram users may be less likely to tweet or remain active users of twitter. any similar elimination of integration with twitter in the future, whether by facebook or others, may adversely impact our business and operating results. consolidation may also enable our larger competitors to offer bundled or integrated products that feature alternatives to our platform. reduced functionality of our products and services, or our competitors' ability to offer bundled or integrated products that compete directly with us, may cause our user growth, user engagement and ad engagement to decline and advertisers to reduce their spend with us. 15 if we are not able to compete effectively for users and adv ertiser spend our business and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which makes them difficult to predict. our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and will fluctuate in the future. as a result, our past quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicators of future performance. our operating results in any given quarter can be influenced by numerous factors, many of which we are unable to predict or are outside of our control, including: our ability to grow our user base and user engagement; our ability to attract and retain advertisers, content partners and platform partners; the occurrence of planned significant events, such as the world cup, super bowl, champions league final, world series, olympics and the oscars, or unplanned significant events, such as natural disasters and political revolutions; the pricing of our products and services; the development and introduction of new products or services, changes in features of existing products or services or de-emphasis or termination of existing products, product features or services; the impact of competitors or competitive products and services; our ability to maintain or increase revenue; our ability to maintain or improve gross margins and operating margins; increases in research and development, marketing and sales and other operating expenses that we may incur to grow and expand our operations and to remain competitive; stock-based compensation expense; costs related to the acquisition of businesses, talent, technologies or intellectual property, including potentially significant amortization costs; system failures resulting in the inaccessibility of our products and services; breaches of security or privacy, and the costs associated with remediating any such breaches; adverse litigation judgments, settlements or other litigation-related costs, and the fees associated with investigating and defending claims; changes in the legislative or regulatory environment, including with respect to security, tax, privacy or enforcement by government regulators, including fines, orders or consent decrees; fluctuations in currency exchange rates and changes in the proportion of our revenue and expenses denominated in foreign currencies; changes in u.s. generally accepted accounting principles; and changes in global business or macroeconomic conditions. given our limited operating history and the rapidly evolving markets in which we compete, our historical operating results may not be useful to you in predicting our future operating results. if our revenue growth rate slows, we expect that the seasonality in our business may become more pronounced and may in the future cause our operating results to fluctuate. for example, advertising spending is traditionally seasonally strong in the fourth quarter of each year and we believe that this seasonality affects our quarterly results, which generally reflect higher sequential advertising revenue growth from the third to fourth quarter compared to sequential advertising revenue growth from the fourth quarter to the subsequent first quarter. in addition, global economic concerns continue to create uncertainty and unpredictability and add risk to our future outlook. an economic downturn in any particular region in which we do business or globally could result in reductions in advertising revenue, as our advertisers reduce their advertising budgets, and other adverse effects that could harm our operating results. 16 we depend on highly skilled personnel to grow and operate our business, and have seen high l evels of attrition . if we are unable to hire, retain and motivate our personnel, we may not be able to grow effectively. our future success and strategy will depend upon our continued ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel, including senior management, engineers, designers and product managers. we depend on contributions from our employees, and in particular our senior management team, to execute efficiently and effectively. we do not have employment agreements other than offer letters with any member of our senior management or other key employee, and we do not maintain key person life insurance for any employee. we also face significant competition for employees, particularly in the san francisco bay area (where our headquarters is located) and other key markets, for engineers, designers and product managers from other internet and high-growth companies, which include both publicly-traded and privately-held companies. as a result, we may not be able to retain our existing employees or hire new employees quickly enough to meet our needs. at the same time, we are also experiencing high voluntary attrition, and the resulting influx of new leaders and other employees may require that we expend the time, attention and resources necessary to recruit and retain talent, restructure parts of our organization, and train and integrate new employees. in addition, to attract highly and retain skilled personnel, we have had to offer, and believe we will need to continue to offer, highly competitive compensation packages. we may need to invest significant amounts of cash and equity to attract and retain new employees and we may not realize sufficient return on these investments. in addition, changes to u.s. immigration and work authorization laws and regulations can be significantly affected by political forces and levels of economic activity. our business may be materially adversely affected if legislative or administrative changes to immigration or visa laws and regulations impair our hiring processes or projects involving personnel who are not citizens of the country where the work is to be performed. if we are not able to effectively attract and retain employees, we may not be able to innovate or execute quickly on our strategy and our ability to achieve our strategic objectives will be adversely impacted, and our business will be harmed. we also believe that our culture and core values have been, and will continue to be, a key contributor to our success and our ability to foster the innovation, creativity and teamwork we believe we need to support our operations. if we fail to effectively manage our hiring needs and successfully integrate our new hires, our efficiency and ability to meet our forecasts and our culture, employee morale, productivity and retention could suffer, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. if we fail to monetize effectively in international markets, our revenue and our business will be harmed. we may not be able to monetize our products and services internationally as effectively as in the united states as a result of competition, advertiser demand, differences in the digital advertising market and digital advertising conventions, as well as differences in the way that users in different countries access or utilize our products and services. for example, a significant portion of users in emerging markets like india and pakistan use feature phones and communicate via sms messaging, both of which have limited functionality and neither of which may be able to take full advantage of our products and services offered on smartphone or our website or desktop applications. users who access twitter through sms messaging may monetize at lower rates than other users. differences in the competitive landscape in international markets may impact our ability to monetize our products and services. for example, in south korea we face intense competition from a messaging service offered by kakao, which offers some of the same communication features as twitter. the existence of a well-established competitor in an international market may adversely affect our ability to increase our user base, attract content partners, advertisers and platform partners and monetize our products in such market. we may also experience differences in advertiser demand in international markets. for example, during times of political upheaval, advertisers may choose not to advertise on twitter. certain international markets are also not as familiar with digital advertising in general, or in new forms of digital advertising such as our promoted products. further, we face challenges in providing certain advertising products, features or analytics in certain international markets, such as the european union, due to government regulation. our products and services may also be used differently abroad than in the united states. in particular, in certain international markets where internet access is not as rapid or reliable as in the united states, users tend not to take advantage of certain features of our products and services, such as rich media included in tweets, video or live streaming video. the limitation of mobile devices of users in emerging and other markets limits our ability to deliver certain features to those users and may limit the ability of advertisers to deliver compelling advertisements to users in these markets which may result in reduced ad engagements which would adversely affect our business and operating results. 17 if our revenue from our international operations, and particularly from our operations in the countries and regions where we have focused our spendin g, does not exceed the expense of establishing and maintaining these operations, our business and operating results will suffer. in addition, our user base may expand more rapidly in international regions where we are less successful in monetizing our prod ucts and services. as our user base continues to expand internationally, we will need to increase revenue from the activity generated by our international users in order to grow our business. for example, users outside the united states constituted 79 % of our average maus in the three months ended december 31, 201 7 , but our international revenue, as determined based on the billing location of our advertisers, was only 44 % of our consolidated revenue in the three months ended december 31, 201 7 . our inability to successfully expand our business internationally could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. user growth and engagement depend upon effective interoperation with operating systems, networks, devices, web browsers and standards that we do not control. we make our products and services available across a variety of operating systems and through websites. we are dependent on the interoperability of our products and services with popular devices, desktop and mobile operating systems and web browsers that we do not control, such as mac os, windows, android, ios, chrome and firefox. any changes, bugs or technical issues in such systems, devices or web browsers or changes in our relationships with mobile operating system partners or mobile carriers, or in their terms of service or policies that diminish the functionality of our products and services, make it difficult for our users to access our content, limit our ability to target or measure the effectiveness of ads, impose fees related to our products or services or give preferential treatment to competitive products or services could adversely affect usage of our products and services. for example, many of our relationships with our mobile carriers to deliver our sms messages were originally negotiated as free or low-cost connections, but recently some of the mobile carriers have been proposing fee increases for these arrangements, which may not be cost-effective for us. this may, in turn, adversely affect the number of users who receive our sms messages. additionally, some of our mobile carriers have experienced infrastructure issues due to natural disasters, which have caused deliverability errors or poor quality communications with our products. any such errors, regardless of whether caused by our infrastructure or that of the service provider, may result in the loss of our existing users or may make it difficult to attract new users. further, if the number of platforms for which we develop our product expands, it will result in an increase in our operating expenses. in order to deliver high quality products and services, it is important that our products and services work well with a range of operating systems, networks, devices, web browsers and standards that we do not control. in addition, because a majority of our users access our products and services through mobile devices, we are particularly dependent on the interoperability of our products and services with mobile devices and operating systems in order to deliver our products and services. for example, a recent change was made to safari's integration with third-party applications including twitter that resulted in a decrease of approximately 2 million maus who accessed twitter by using registered third-party applications when those applications automatically contact our servers for regular updates without discernible user-initiated action. we also may not be successful in developing relationships with key participants in the mobile industry or in developing products or services that operate effectively with these operating systems, networks, devices, web browsers and standards. in the event that it is difficult for our users to access and use our products and services, particularly on their mobile devices, our user growth and engagement could be harmed, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. our ability to convince potential and new users of the value of our products and services is critical to increasing our user base and to the success of our business. we have developed a global platform that we believe is the best and fastest place to see what's happening and what people are talking about all around the world, but the market for our products and services is relatively new and may not develop as expected, if at all. despite our efforts to reduce barriers to consumption, people who are not our users may not understand the value of our products and services and new users may initially find our products confusing, which may make retention of such users more difficult. there may be a perception that our products and services are only useful to users who tweet, or to influential users with large audiences. convincing potential and new users of the value of our products and services is critical to increasing our user base and to the success of our business. if we fail to educate potential users and potential advertisers about the value of our products and services, if the market for our platform does not develop as we expect or if we fail to address the needs of this market, our business will be harmed. failure to adequately address these risks and challenges could harm our business and cause our operating results to suffer. 18 we have incurred signif icant operating losses in the past, and we may not be able to maintain profitability. since our inception, we have incurred significant operating losses, and, as of december 31, 2017, we had an accumulated deficit of $2.67 billion. although our revenue has grown rapidly, increasing from $664.9 million in 2013 to $2.44 billion in 2017, our revenue growth rate has slowed as a result of a variety of factors. we believe that our future revenue growth will depend on, among other factors, our ability to attract new users, increase user engagement and ad engagement, increase our brand awareness, compete effectively, maximize our sales efforts, demonstrate a positive return on investment for advertisers, and successfully develop new products and services. accordingly, you should not rely on the revenue growth of any prior quarterly or annual period as an indication of our future performance. our costs may increase in future periods as we continue to expend substantial financial resources on: our technology infrastructure; research and development for our products and services; sales and marketing; attracting and retaining talented employees; strategic opportunities, including commercial relationships and acquisitions; and general administration, including personnel costs and legal and accounting expenses related to being a public company. these investments may not result in increased revenue or growth in our business. additionally, certain new revenue products or product features may carry higher costs relative to our other products, which may decrease our margins. if we are unable to generate adequate revenue growth and to manage our expenses, we may continue to incur significant losses in the future and may not be able to maintain profitability. our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to our products and services on the internet by our users, content partners, advertisers, and platform partners. if we or our users experience disruptions in internet service or if internet service providers are able to block, degrade or charge for access to our products and services, we could incur additional expenses and the loss of users and advertisers. we depend on the ability of our users, content partners, advertisers and platform partners to access the internet. currently, this access is provided by companies that have significant market power in the broadband and internet access marketplace, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies, government-owned service providers, device manufacturers and operating system providers, any of whom could take actions that degrade, disrupt or increase the cost of user access to our products or services, which would, in turn, negatively impact our business. the adoption or repeal of any laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the internet, including laws or practices limiting internet neutrality, could decrease the demand for, or the usage of, our products and services, increase our cost of doing business and adversely affect our operating results. for example, access to twitter is blocked in china and has been intermittently blocked in turkey in the last three years and certain of our sms messages have been blocked in saudi arabia . we also rely on other companies to maintain reliable network systems that provide adequate speed, data capacity and security to us and our users. as the internet continues to experience growth in the number of users, frequency of use and amount of data transmitted, the internet infrastructure that we and our users rely on may be unable to support the demands placed upon it. the failure of the internet infrastructure that we or our users rely on, even for a short period of time, could undermine our operations and harm our operating results. 19 our new products, product features, services and initiatives and changes to existing products, services and initiatives could fail to attract users, content partners, advertisers and platform partners or generate revenu e. our industry is subject to rapid and frequent changes in technology, evolving customer needs and the frequent introduction by our competitors of new and enhanced offerings. we must constantly assess the playing field and determine whether we need to improve or re-allocate resources amongst our existing products and services or create new ones (independently or in conjunction with third parties). our ability to increase the size and engagement of our user base, attract content partners, advertisers and platform partners and generate revenue will depend on those decisions. we may introduce significant changes to our existing products and services or develop and introduce new and unproven products and services, including technologies with which we have little or no prior development or operating experience. for example, in 2015, we introduced periscope, a mobile application that lets users share and experience live video from their mobile phones and in 2013, we introduced vine, a mobile application that enabled users to create and distribute videos that are up to six seconds in length, which we discontinued in january 2017 but transitioned certain product features to the vine camera app. also, we introduced new features to twitter such as moments , a curated collection of tweets, photos, videos, and periscope broadcasts about current news stories or events; in case you missed it, which surfaces tweets a logged-in user may have missed since last accessing twitter; expanding our character limit to 280 characters for more people around the world; and threads, new feature that allows people to more easily thread tweets together. if new or enhanced products, product features or services fail to engage users, content partners and advertisers, we may fail to attract or retain users or to generate sufficient revenue or operating profit to justify our investments, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. in addition, we have launched and expect to continue to launch strategic initiatives that do not directly generate revenue but which we believe will enhance our attractiveness to users, content partners and advertisers. in the future, we may invest in new products, product features, services and initiatives to generate revenue, but there is no guarantee these approaches will be successful. we may not be successful in future efforts to generate revenue from our new products or services. if our strategic initiatives do not enhance our ability to monetize our existing products and services, enable us to develop new approaches to monetization or meet the expectations of our users or third-party business partners, we may not be able to maintain or grow our revenue or recover any associated development costs and our operating results could be adversely affected. if we fail to effectively manage changes to our business and operations, our business and operating results could be harmed. providing our products and services to our users is costly and we expect certain of our expenses to continue to increase in the future as we broaden our user base and increase user engagement, as users increase the amount of content they contribute, and as we develop and implement new features, products and services that require more infrastructure, in particular our video product features. in addition, our operating expenses, such as our research and development expenses and sales and marketing expenses, have grown rapidly as we have expanded our business. historically, our costs have increased each year due to these factors and we expect to continue to incur increasing costs to support our operations. we expect to continue to invest in our infrastructure so that we can provide our products and services rapidly and reliably to users around the world, including in countries where we do not expect significant near-term monetization. we intend to fully invest in our highest priorities, while eliminating investment in noncore areas. finding and maintaining the appropriate balance will require significant expenditures and allocation of valuable management resources. if we fail to achieve the necessary level of efficiency in our organization, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. 20 we focus on product innovation and user engagement rather than short-term operating results. we encourage employees to quickly develop and help us launch new and innovative features. we focus on improving the user experience for our products and services, which includes protecting user privacy, and on developing new and improved products and services for the advertisers on our platform. we prioritize innovation and the experience for users and advertisers on our platform over short-term operating results. we frequently make product, product feature and service decisions that may reduce our short-term operating results if we believe that the decisions are consistent with our goals to improve the user experience and performance for advertisers, which we believe will improve our operating results over the long term. for example, we are investing in our new live-streaming video experiences, and we may not successfully monetize such experiences. these decisions may not be consistent with the short-term expectations of investors and may not produce the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case our user growth and user engagement, our relationships with advertisers and our business and operating results could be harmed. in addition, our focus on the user experience may negatively impact our relationships with our existing or prospective advertisers. this could result in a loss of advertisers, which could harm our revenue and operating results. our business and operating results may be harmed by a disruption in our service, or by our failure to timely and effectively scale and adapt our existing technology and infrastructure. one of the reasons people come to twitter is for real-time information. we have experienced, and may in the future experience, service disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, hardware failure, capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of people accessing our products and services simultaneously, computer viruses and denial of service or fraud or security attacks. for instance, in january 2016, we experienced a brief service outage during which twitter.com and twitter mobile clients were inaccessible as a result, in part, of a software misconfiguration in one of our infrastructure components. additionally, although we are investing significantly to improve the capacity, capability and reliability of our infrastructure, we are not currently serving traffic equally through our co-located data centers that support our platform. accordingly, in the event of a significant issue at the data center supporting most of our network traffic, some of our products and services may become inaccessible to the public or the public may experience difficulties accessing our products and services. any disruption or failure in our infrastructure could hinder our ability to handle existing or increased traffic on our platform, which could significantly harm our business. as the number of our users increases and our users generate more content, including photos and videos hosted by twitter, we may be required to expand and adapt our technology and infrastructure to continue to reliably store, serve and analyze this content. it may become increasingly difficult to maintain and improve the performance of our products and services, especially during peak usage times, as our products and services become more complex and our user traffic increases. in addition, because we lease our data center facilities, we cannot be assured that we will be able to expand our data center infrastructure to meet user demand in a timely manner, or on favorable economic terms. if our users are unable to access twitter or we are not able to make information available rapidly on twitter, users may seek other channels to obtain the information, and may not return to twitter or use twitter as often in the future, or at all. this would negatively impact our ability to attract users, content partners and advertisers and increase engagement of our users. we expect to continue to make significant investments to maintain and improve the capacity, capability and reliability of our infrastructure. to the extent that we do not effectively address capacity constraints, upgrade our systems as needed and continually develop our technology and infrastructure to accommodate actual and anticipated changes in technology, our business and operating results may be harmed. 21 if we are unable to maintai n and promote our brand, our business and operating results may be harmed. we believe that maintaining and promoting our brand is critical to expanding our base of users, content partners and advertisers. maintaining and promoting our brand will depend largely on our ability to continue to provide useful, reliable and innovative products and services with a focus on a positive user experience, which we may not do successfully. we may introduce new features, products, services or terms of service that users, content partners, advertisers or platform partners do not like, which may negatively affect our brand. additionally, the actions of content partners may affect our brand if users do not have a positive experience using third-party applications or websites integrated with twitter or that make use of twitter content. we will also continue to experience media, legislative or regulatory scrutiny of our decisions regarding user privacy, content and other issues, which may adversely affect our reputation and brand. for example, we previously announced our discovery of content (including some advertisements) previously displayed on our products that may be relevant to government investigations relating to russian interference in the 2016 u.s. presidential election, which drew media and regulatory scrutiny of our actions with respect to such content. our brand may also be negatively affected by the actions of users that are hostile or inappropriate to other people, by users impersonating other people, by users identified as spam, by use of our products or services to disseminate information that may be viewed as misleading (or intended to manipulate the opinions of our users), by users introducing excessive amounts of spam on our platform or by third parties obtaining control over users' accounts. for example, we were recently made aware of certain actions taken by a social media marketing company to sell followers and engagement that were in violation of our policies but that drew media and regulatory scrutiny on us. maintaining and enhancing our brand may require us to make substantial investments and these investments may not achieve the desired goals. if we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. negative publicity could adversely affect our business and operating results. we receive a high degree of media coverage around the world. negative publicity about our company, including about quality and reliability of our products or of content shared on our platform, changes to our products and services, privacy and security practices (including actions taken with respect to certain users or accounts or reports regarding government surveillance), litigation, regulatory activity, the actions of our users (including actions taken by prominent users on our platform or the dissemination of information that may be viewed as misleading or as intended to manipulate the opinions of our users) or user experience with our products and services, even if inaccurate, could adversely affect our reputation and the confidence in and the use of our products and services. such negative publicity could also have an adverse effect on the size, engagement and loyalty of our user base and result in decreased revenue, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. spam could diminish the user experience on our platform, which could damage our reputation and deter our current and potential users from using our products and services. spam on twitter refers to a range of abusive activities that are prohibited by our terms of service and is generally defined as unsolicited, repeated actions that negatively impact other users with the general goal of drawing user attention to a given account, site, product or idea. this includes posting large numbers of unsolicited mentions of a user, duplicate tweets, malicious automation, misleading links (e.g., to malware or click-jacking pages) or other false or misleading content, and aggressively following and un-following accounts, adding users to lists, sending invitations, retweeting and liking tweets to inappropriately attract attention. our terms of service also prohibit the creation of serial or bulk accounts, both manually or using automation, for disruptive or abusive purposes, such as to tweet spam or to artificially inflate the popularity of users seeking to promote themselves on twitter. although we continue to invest resources to reduce spam on twitter, we expect spammers will continue to seek ways to act inappropriately on our platform. in addition, we expect that increases in the number of users on our platform will result in increased efforts by spammers to misuse our platform. we continuously combat spam, including by suspending or terminating accounts we believe to be spammers and launching algorithmic changes focused on curbing abusive activities. our actions to combat spam require the diversion of significant time and focus of our engineering team from improving our products and services. if spam increases on twitter, this could hurt our reputation for delivering relevant content or reduce user growth and user engagement and result in continuing operational cost to us. 22 action by governments to restrict access to our products and services or censor twitter content could harm our business and operating results. governments have sought, and may in the future seek, to censor content available through our products and services restrict access to our products and services from their country entirely or impose other restrictions that may affect the accessibility of our products and services for an extended period of time or indefinitely. for example, domestic internet service providers in china have blocked access to twitter, and other countries, including iran, libya, pakistan, turkey and syria, have intermittently restricted access to twitter, and we believe that access to twitter has been blocked in these countries primarily for political reasons. in addition, governments in these or other countries may seek to restrict access to our products and services based on our decisions around user content, providing user information in response to governmental requests, or other matters. in the event that access to our products and services is restricted, in whole or in part, in one or more countries or our competitors are able to successfully penetrate geographic markets that we cannot access, our ability to retain or increase our user base and user engagement may be adversely affected, and our operating results may be harmed. our future performance depends in part on support from our content partners and data partners. we believe user engagement with our products and services depends in part on the availability of applications and content generated by our content or platform partners. for instance, in july 2016, we partnered with the major league baseball advanced media to deliver a free live digital video stream of weekly mlb baseball games on twitter. if our content or platform partners focus their efforts on other platforms, the availability and quality of applications and content for our products and services may suffer. there is no assurance that our content or platform partners will continue to develop and maintain applications and content for our products and services. if our content or platform partners cease to develop and maintain applications and content for our products and services, user engagement may decline. in addition, we generate revenue from licensing our historical and real-time data to third parties. if any of these relationships are terminated or not renewed on economic and other terms that are acceptable to us, or if we are unable to enter into similar relationships in the future, our operating results could be adversely affected. our international operations are subject to increased challenges and risks. we have offices around the world and our products and services are available in multiple languages. however, our ability to manage our business and conduct our operations internationally requires considerable management attention and resources and is subject to the particular challenges of supporting a rapidly growing business in an environment of multiple languages, cultures, customs, legal and regulatory systems, alternative dispute systems and commercial markets. our international operations have required and will continue to require us to invest significant funds and other resources. operating internationally subjects us to new risks and may increase risks that we currently face, including risks associated with: recruiting and retaining talented and capable employees in foreign countries and maintaining our company culture across all of our offices; providing our products and services and operating across a significant distance, in different languages and among different cultures, including the potential need to modify our products, services, content and features to ensure that they are culturally relevant in different countries; increased competition from largely regional websites, mobile applications and services that provide real-time communications and have strong positions in particular countries, which have expanded and may continue to expand their geographic footprint; differing and potentially lower levels of user growth, user engagement and ad engagement in new and emerging geographies; different levels of advertiser demand; greater difficulty in monetizing our products and services; compliance with applicable foreign laws and regulations, including laws and regulations with respect to privacy, data security, consumer protection, spam and content, and the risk of penalties to our users and individual members of management if our practices are deemed to be out of compliance; longer payment cycles in some countries; 23 credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; operating in jurisdictions that do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the united states; compliance with anti-bribery laws including, without limitation, compliance with the foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act, including by our business partners; currency exchange rate fluctuations; foreign exchange controls that might require significant lead time in setting up operations in certain geographic territories and might prevent us from repatriating cash earned outside the united states; political and economic instability in some countries; double taxation of our international earnings and potentially adverse tax consequences due to changes in the tax laws of the united states or the foreign jurisdictions in which we operate; and higher costs of doing business internationally, including increased accounting, travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs. if we are unable to manage the complexity of our global operations successfully, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. our products and services may contain undetected software errors, which could harm our business and operating results. our products and services incorporate complex software and we encourage employees to quickly develop and help us launch new and innovative features. our software, including any open source software that is incorporated into our code, has contained, and may now or in the future contain, errors, bugs or vulnerabilities. for example, in february 2016, we discovered, and corrected, a bug that affected our password recovery systems for about 24 hours. although this issue did not expose passwords or information that could be used directly to access an account, it had the potential to expose the email address and phone number associated with a small number of accounts (fewer than 10,000 active accounts). some errors in our software code may only be discovered after the product or service has been released. errors, vulnerabilities, or other design defects within the software on which we rely may result in a negative experience for users and advertisers who use our products, delay product introductions or enhancements, result in targeting, measurement, or billing errors, compromise our ability to protect the data of our users and/or our intellectual property or lead to reductions in our ability to provide some or all of our services. for example, in december 2016, we discovered and corrected a technical error in our android application that resulted in incorrect reporting of certain video advertisement metrics for approximately one month. any errors, bugs or vulnerabilities discovered in our code after release could result in damage to our reputation, loss of users, loss of content or platform partners, loss of advertisers or advertising revenue or liability for damages or other relief sought in lawsuits, regulatory inquiries or other proceedings, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. our business is subject to complex and evolving u.s. and foreign laws and regulations. these laws and regulations are subject to change and uncertain interpretation, and could result in claims, changes to our business practices, monetary penalties, increased cost of operations or declines in user growth, user engagement or ad engagement, or otherwise harm our business. we are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the united states and abroad that involve matters central to our business, including privacy, security, rights of publicity, data protection, content regulation, intellectual property, competition, protection of minors, consumer protection, credit card processing and taxation. many of these laws and regulations are still evolving and being tested in courts. as a result, it is possible that these laws and regulations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from country to country and inconsistent with our current policies and practices and in ways that could harm our business, particularly in the new and rapidly evolving industry in which we operate. additionally, the introduction of new products or services may subject us to additional laws and regulations. 24 from time to time, governments, regulators and others have expressed concerns about whether our products, services or practices compromise the privacy of users and others. while we strive to comply with applicable data protection laws and regulations, as w ell as our own posted privacy policies and other obligations we may have with respect to privacy and data protection, the failure or perceived failure to so comply may result, and in some cases has resulted, in inquiries and other proceedings or actions ag ainst us by governments, regulators or others. a number of proposals have recently been adopted or are currently pending before federal, state and foreign legislative and regulatory bodies that could significantly affect our business. for example, legisla tion has been introduced in the california state assembly that would require social media companies doing business in california to link every user account to a human being. moreover, foreign data protection, privacy, consumer protection, content regulatio n and other laws and regulations are often more restrictive than those in the united states. in particular, the european union and its member states traditionally have taken broader views as to types of data that are subject to privacy and data protection, and have imposed greater legal obligations on companies in this regard. for example, the general data protection regulation, or the gdpr, has been adopted and will go into effect in may 2018. the gdpr also includes more stringent operational requirements for entities processing personal information and significant penalties for non-compliance, including fines of up to 20 million or 4% of total worldwide revenue, whichever is higher. additionally, we rely on a variety of legal bases to transfer certain per sonal information outside of the european economic area, including the eu-us privacy shield framework, or privacy shield, and eu standard contractual clauses, or sccs. the privacy shield is currently under review by regulatory authorities and it and the sc cs are both subject of legal challenges in european courts, and the absence of successor legal bases for continued data transfer could require us to create duplicative, and potentially expensive, information technology infrastructure and business operation in europe or limit our ability to collect and use personal information collected in europe. any of these changes to eu data protection law could disrupt our business. further, following a referendum in june 2016 in which voters in the united kingdom approved an exit from the eu, the united kingdom government has initiated a process to leave the eu (often referred to as brexit ). brexit has created uncertainty with regard to the regulation of data protection in the united kingdom. in particular, it is unclear whether the united kingdom will enact data protection laws or regulations designed to be consistent with the gdpr and how data transfers to and from the united kingdom will be regulated. similarly, there have been a number of recent legislative proposals in the united states, at both the federal and state level, that could impose new obligations in areas such as privacy and liability for copyright infringement by third parties such as various congressional efforts to restrict the scope of the protections available to online platforms under section 230 of the communications decency act, and our current protections from liability for third-party content in the united states could decrease or change. the u.s. government, including the ftc and the department of commerce, has announced that it is reviewing the need for greater regulation for the collection of information concerning user behavior on the internet, including regulation aimed at restricting certain online tracking and targeted advertising practices. additionally, recent amendments to u.s. patent laws may affect the ability of companies, including us, to protect their innovations and defend against claims of patent infringement. additionally, we have relationships with third parties that perform a variety of functions such as payments processing, tokenization, vaulting, currency conversion, fraud prevention and data security audits. the laws and regulations related to online payments are complex, subject to change, and vary across different jurisdictions in the united states and globally. as a result, we may be required to spend significant time, effort and expense to comply with applicable laws and regulations. any failure or claim of our failure to comply, or any failure or claim of failure by the above-mentioned third parties to comply, could increase our costs or could result in liabilities. additionally, because twitter accepts payment via credit cards and is certified as a pci level 1 service provider, we are subject to payment card association operating rules and certification requirements, including the payment card industry data security standard. we currently allow use of our platform without the collection of extensive personal information, such as age. we may experience additional pressure to expand our collection of personal information in order to comply with new and additional regulatory demands or we may independently decide to do so. if we obtain such additional personal information, we may be subject to additional regulation. 25 regulatory investigations and settlements could cause us to incur additional expenses or change our business practices in a manner materially adverse to our business. we have been subject to regulatory investigations in the past, and expect to continue to be subject to regulatory scrutiny as our business grows and awareness of our brand increases. in march 2011, to resolve an investigation into various incidents, we entered into a settlement agreement with the ftc that, among other things, required us to establish an information security program designed to protect non-public consumer information and also requires that we obtain biennial independent security assessments. the obligations under the settlement agreement remain in effect until the later of march 2, 2031, or the date 20 years after the date, if any, on which the u.s. government or the ftc files a complaint in federal court alleging any violation of the order. we expect to continue to be the subject of regulatory inquiries, investigations and audits in the future by the ftc and other regulators around the world. it is possible that a regulatory inquiry, investigation or audit might result in changes to our policies or practices, and may cause us to incur substantial costs or could result in reputational harm, prevent us from offering certain products, services, features or functionalities, cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner materially adverse to our business. violation of existing or future regulatory orders, settlements or consent decrees could subject us to substantial monetary fines and other penalties that could negatively affect our financial condition and operating results. if our security measures are breached, or if our products and services are subject to attacks that degrade or deny the ability of users to access our products and services, our products and services may be perceived as not being secure, users and advertisers may curtail or stop using our products and services and our business and operating results could be harmed. our products and services involve the storage and transmission of users' and advertisers' information, and security breaches expose us to a risk of loss of this information, litigation, increased security costs and potential liability. we also work with third-party vendors to process credit card payments by our customers and are subject to payment card association operating rules. we and our third-party service providers experience cyber-attacks of varying degrees on a regular basis. for example, in october 2016, we experienced a service outage as a result of several distributed denial of service attacks on our domain name service provider, dyn. our products operate in conjunction with, and we are dependent upon, third-party products and components across a broad ecosystem. additionally, the natural sunsetting of third-party products and operating systems that we use requires that our infrastructure teams reallocate time and attention to migration and updates, during which period potential security vulnerabilities could be exploited. if there is a security vulnerability (such as the recently-announced spectre and meltdown vulnerabilities) in one of these components and if there is a security exploit targeting it, we could face increased costs, liability claims, reduced revenue, or harm to our reputation or competitive position. third parties may also gain access to twitter user names and passwords without attacking twitter directly by combining credential information from other recent breaches, using malware on victim machines that are stealing passwords for all sites, or a combination of both. in addition, some of our developers or other partners, such as third-party applications to which our users have given permission to tweet on their behalf, may receive or store information provided by us or by our users through mobile or web applications integrated with us. if these third parties or developers fail to adopt or adhere to adequate data security practices, or in the event of a breach of their networks, our data or our users' data may be improperly accessed, used, or disclosed. as a result, unauthorized parties have obtained, and may in the future obtain, access to our data or our users' or advertisers' data. for example, we have previously disclosed that sophisticated unknown third parties had attacked our systems and may have had access to limited information for small subset of our users. in addition, a breach of a third-party application that has been trusted by a user could result in the account issuing tweets, likes, retweets, or direct messages without such user's knowledge or consent. any systems failure or actual or perceived compromise of our security that results in the unauthorized access to or release of our users' or advertisers' data, such as credit card data, could significantly limit the adoption of our products and services, as well as harm our reputation and brand and, therefore, our business. 26 our security measures may also be breached due to employee error, malfeasance or otherwise. additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees, users or advertisers to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data o r our users' or advertisers' data or accounts, or may otherwise obtain access to such data or accounts. since our users and advertisers may use their twitter accounts to establish and maintain online identities, unauthorized communications from twitter acc ounts that have been compromised may damage their reputations and brands as well as ours. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launche d against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. if an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed , our users and advertisers may be harmed, lose trust and confidence in us, decrease the use of our products and services or stop using our products and services in their entirety. we may also incur significant legal and financial exposure, including legal claims, higher transaction fees and regulatory fines and penalties. any of these actions could have a material and adverse effect on our business, reputation and operating results. we may face lawsuits or incur liability as a result of content published or made available through our products and services. we have faced and will continue to face claims relating to content that is published or made available through our products and services or third-party products or services. in particular, the nature of our business exposes us to claims related to defamation, intellectual property rights, rights of publicity and privacy, illegal content, misinformation, content regulation and personal injury torts. the laws relating to the liability of providers of online products or services for activities of their users remains somewhat unsettled, both within the united states and internationally. this risk may be enhanced in certain jurisdictions outside the united states where we may be less protected under local laws than we are in the united states. for example, we are subject to recently enacted legislation in germany that may impose significant fines for failure to comply with certain content removal and disclosure obligations. in addition, the public nature of communications on our network exposes us to risks arising from the creation of impersonation accounts intended to be attributed to our users or advertisers. we could incur significant costs investigating and defending these claims. if we incur material costs or liability as a result of these occurrences, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products, services and brand. our trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights are important assets. we rely on, and expect to continue to rely on, a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark, trade dress, domain name, copyright, trade secret and patent laws, to protect our brand and other intellectual property rights. however, various events outside of our control pose a threat to our intellectual property rights, as well as to our products, services and technologies. for example, we may fail to obtain effective intellectual property protection, or effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are available. also, the efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient or effective, and any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged, which could result in them being narrowed in scope or declared invalid or unenforceable. there can be no assurance our intellectual property rights will be sufficient to protect against others offering products or services that are substantially similar to ours and compete with our business. we rely on non-patented proprietary information and technology, such as trade secrets, confidential information, know-how and technical information. while in certain cases we have agreements in place with employees and third parties that place restrictions on the use and disclosure of this intellectual property, these agreements may be breached, or this intellectual property may otherwise be disclosed or become known to our competitors, which could cause us to lose any competitive advantage resulting from this intellectual property. we are pursuing registration of trademarks and domain names in the united states and in certain jurisdictions outside of the united states. effective protection of trademarks and domain names is expensive and difficult to maintain, both in terms of application and registration costs as well as the costs of defending and enforcing those rights. we may be required to protect our rights in an increasing number of countries, a process that is expensive and may not be successful or which we may not pursue in every country in which our products and services are distributed or made available. 27 we are party to numerous agreements that grant licenses to third parties to use our intellectual property, including our trademarks. for example, many third parties distribute their content through twitter, or embed twitter content in their applications or on their websites, and make use of our trademarks in connection with their services. if the licensees of our trademarks are not using our tradema rks properly, it may limit our ability to protect our trademarks and could ultimately result in our trademarks being declared invalid or unenforceable. we have a policy designed to assist third parties in the proper use of our brand, trademarks and other a ssets, and we have an internal team dedicated to enforcing our policy and protecting our brand. our brand protection team routinely receives and reviews reports of improper and unauthorized use of the twitter brand, trademarks or assets and issues takedown notices or initiates discussions with the third parties to correct the issues. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to protect against the unauthorized use of our brand, trademarks or other assets. if we fail to maintain and enforce our trademark rights, the value of our brand could be diminished. there is also a risk that one or more of our trademarks could become generic, which could result in them being declared invalid or unenforceable. for example, there is a risk that the word twe et could become so commonly used that it becomes synonymous with any short comment posted publicly on the internet, and if this happens, we could lose protection of this trademark. we also seek to obtain patent protection for some of our technology. we may be unable to obtain patent protection for our technologies, and our existing patents, and any patents that may be issued in the future, may not provide us with competitive advantages or distinguish our products and services from those of our competitors. in addition, any patents may be contested, circumvented, or found unenforceable or invalid, and we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing or otherwise violating them. effective protection of patent rights is expensive and difficult to maintain, both in terms of application and maintenance costs, as well as the costs of defending and enforcing those rights. our innovator's patent agreement, or ipa, also can limit our ability to prevent infringement of our patents. in may 2013, we implemented the ipa, which we enter into with our employees and consultants, including our founders. the ipa, which applies to our current and future patents, allows us to assert our patents defensively. the ipa also allows us to assert our patents offensively with the permission of the inventors of the applicable patent. under the ipa, an assertion of claims is considered for a defensive purpose if the claims are asserted: (i) against an entity that has filed, maintained, threatened or voluntarily participated in a patent infringement lawsuit against us or any of our users, affiliates, customers, suppliers or distributors; (ii) against an entity that has used its patents offensively against any other party in the past ten years, so long as the entity has not instituted the patent infringement lawsuit defensively in response to a patent litigation threat against the entity; or (iii) otherwise to deter a patent litigation threat against us or our users, affiliates, customers, suppliers or distributors. in addition, the ipa provides that the above limitations apply to any future owner or exclusive licensee of any of our patents, which could limit our ability to sell or license our patents to third parties. while we may be able to claim protection of our intellectual property under other rights, such as trade secrets or contractual obligations with our employees not to disclose or use confidential information, we may be unable to assert our patent rights against third parties that we believe are infringing our patents, even if such third parties are developing products and services that compete with our products and services. for example, in the event that an inventor of one of our patents leaves us for another company and uses our patented technology to compete with us, we would not be able to assert that patent against such other company unless the assertion of the patent right is for a defensive purpose. in such event, we may be limited in our ability to assert a patent right against another company, and instead would need to rely on trade secret protection or the contractual obligation of the inventor to us not to disclose or use our confidential information. in addition, the terms of the ipa could affect our ability to monetize our intellectual property portfolio. significant impairments of our intellectual property rights, and limitations on our ability to assert our intellectual property rights against others, could harm our business and our ability to compete. also, obtaining, maintaining and enforcing our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. any increase in the unauthorized use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our operating results. 28 we are currently, and expect to be in the future, party to in tellectual property rights claims that are expensive and time consuming to defend, and, if resolved adversely, could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. companies in the internet, technology and media industries are subject to litigation based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation or other violations of intellectual property or other rights. many companies in these industries, including many of our competitors, have substantially larger patent and intellectual property portfolios than we do, which could make us a target for litigation as we may not be able to assert counterclaims against parties that sue us for patent, or other intellectual property infringement. in addition, various non-practicing entities that own patents and other intellectual property rights often attempt to assert claims in order to extract value from technology companies. from time to time we receive claims from third parties which allege that we have infringed upon their intellectual property rights. further, from time to time we may introduce new products, product features and services, including in areas where we currently do not have an offering, which could increase our exposure to patent and other intellectual property claims from competitors and non-practicing entities. in addition, although our standard terms and conditions for our promoted products and public apis do not provide advertisers and platform partners with indemnification for intellectual property claims against them, some of our agreements with advertisers, content partners, platform partners and data partners require us to indemnify them for certain intellectual property claims against them, which could require us to incur considerable costs in defending such claims, and may require us to pay significant damages in the event of an adverse ruling. such advertisers, content partners, platform partners and data partners may also discontinue use of our products, services and technologies as a result of injunctions or otherwise, which could result in loss of revenue and adversely impact our business. we presently are involved in a number of intellectual property lawsuits, and as we face increasing competition and gain an increasingly high profile and develop new products, we expect the number of patent and other intellectual property claims against us to grow. there may be intellectual property or other rights held by others, including issued or pending patents, that cover significant aspects of our products and services, and we cannot be sure that we are not infringing or violating, and have not infringed or violated, any third-party intellectual property rights or that we will not be held to have done so or be accused of doing so in the future. any claim or litigation alleging that we have infringed or otherwise violated intellectual property or other rights of third parties, with or without merit, and whether or not settled out of court or determined in our favor, could be time-consuming and costly to address and resolve, and could divert the time and attention of our management and technical personnel. some of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do and are able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation to a greater degree and for longer periods of time than we could. the outcome of any litigation is inherently uncertain, and there can be no assurances that favorable final outcomes will be obtained in all cases. in addition, plaintiffs may seek, and we may become subject to, preliminary or provisional rulings in the course of any such litigation, including potential preliminary injunctions requiring us to cease some or all of our operations. we may decide to settle such lawsuits and disputes on terms that are unfavorable to us. similarly, if any litigation to which we are a party is resolved adversely, we may be subject to an unfavorable judgment that may not be reversed upon appeal. the terms of such a settlement or judgment may require us to cease some or all of our operations or pay substantial amounts to the other party. in addition, we may have to seek a license to continue practices found to be in violation of a third-party's rights. if we are required, or choose to enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, such arrangements may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, and may significantly increase our operating costs and expenses. as a result, we may also be required to develop or procure alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense or discontinue use of the technology. an unfavorable resolution of the disputes and litigation referred to above could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 29 many of our products and services contain open source software, and we license some of our software through open source projects, which may pose particular risks to our proprietary software, products, and services in a manner that could have a negative eff ect on our business. we use open source software in our products and services and will use open source software in the future. in addition, we regularly contribute software source code to open source projects under open source licenses or release internal software projects under open source licenses, and anticipate doing so in the future. the terms of many open source licenses to which we are subject have not been interpreted by u.s. or foreign courts, and there is a risk that open source software licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to provide or distribute our products or services. additionally, we may from time to time face claims from third parties claiming ownership of, or demanding release of, the open source software or derivative works that we developed using such software, which could include our proprietary source code, or otherwise seeking to enforce the terms of the applicable open source license. these claims could result in litigation and could require us to make our software source code freely available, purchase a costly license or cease offering the implicated products or services unless and until we can re-engineer them to avoid infringement. this re-engineering process could require significant additional research and development resources, and we may not be able to complete it successfully. in addition to risks related to license requirements, use of certain open source software may pose greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of software. any of these risks could be difficult to eliminate or manage, and, if not addressed, could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. we may require additional capital to support our operations or the growth of our business, and we cannot be certain that this capital will be available on reasonable terms when required, or at all. from time to time, we may need additional financing to operate or grow our business. our ability to obtain additional financing, if and when required, will depend on investor and lender demand, our operating performance, the condition of the capital markets and other factors, and we cannot assure you that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our existing stockholders may experience dilution. if we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support the operation or growth of our business could be significantly impaired and our operating results may be harmed. we rely on assumptions and estimates to calculate certain of our key metrics, and real or perceived inaccuracies in such metrics may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. the number of our active users is calculated using internal company data that has not been independently verified. while these numbers are based on what we believe to be reasonable calculations for the applicable period of measurement, there are inherent challenges in measuring usage and user engagement across our large user base around the world. for example, there are a number of false or spam accounts in existence on our platform. we estimate that false or spam accounts represent fewer than 5% of our maus as of december 31, 2017. however, this estimate is based on an internal review of a sample of accounts and we apply significant judgment in making this determination. as such, our estimation of false or spam accounts may not accurately represent the actual number of such accounts, and the actual number of false or spam accounts could be higher than we have currently estimated. we are continually seeking to improve our ability to estimate the total number of spam accounts and eliminate them from the calculation of our active users, but we otherwise treat multiple accounts held by a single person or organization as multiple users for purposes of calculating our active users because we permit people and organizations to have more than one account. additionally, some accounts used by organizations are used by many people within the organization. as such, the calculations of our active users may not accurately reflect the actual number of people or organizations using our platform. further, we rely on third-party sms aggregators and mobile carriers to deliver sms messages to certain of our users. if, however, we are notified of material deliverability issues because of, for example, infrastructure issues at the service-provider level or governmental restrictions based on content, we do not include the affected users in maus. we may also discover unexpected errors in our internal data that resulted from technical or other errors. for example, in the third quarter of 2017, we discovered that since the fourth quarter of 2014 we had included users of certain third-party applications as twitter maus that should not have been considered maus. these third-party applications used digits, a software development kit of our now-divested fabric platform that allowed third-party applications to send authentication messages via sms through our systems, which did not relate to activity on the twitter platform. although the change in the maus was relatively small in relation to our overall mau numbers, we may face increased scrutiny as a result of the error. 30 our metrics are also affected by mobile applications that automatically contact our servers for regular updates with no discernable user -initiated action involved, and this activity can cause our system to count the user associa ted with such a device as an active user on the day such contact occurs. the calculations of maus and daus presented in this annual report on form 10-k may be affected by this activity. the impact of this automatic activity on our metrics varies by geograp hy because mobile application usage varies in different regions of the world. in addition, our data regarding user geographic location is based on the ip address or phone number associated with the account when a user initially registered the account on tw itter. that ip address or phone number may not always accurately reflect a user's actual location at the time of such user's engagement on our platform. we regularly review and may adjust our processes for calculating our internal metrics to improve their accuracy. our total audience metrics are based on both internal metrics and data from google analytics, which measures unique visitors to our properties. our measures of user growth and user engagement may differ from estimates published by third parties or from similarly-titled metrics of our competitors due to differences in methodology. if advertisers, content or platform partners or investors do not perceive our user metrics to be accurate representations of our user base or user engagement, or if we discover material inaccuracies in our user metrics, our reputation may be harmed and content partners, advertisers and platform partners may be less willing to allocate their budgets or resources to our products and services, which could negatively affect our business and operating results. further, as our business develops, we may revise or cease reporting metrics if we determine that such metrics are no longer accurate or appropriate measures of our performance. for example, we stopped disclosing timeline views as we no longer believed that metric was helpful in measuring engagement on our platform. if investors, analysts or customers do not believe our reported measures of user engagement are sufficient or accurately reflect our business, we may receive negative publicity and our operating results may be harmed. we rely in part on application marketplaces and internet search engines to drive traffic to our products and services, and if we fail to appear high up in the search results or rankings, traffic to our platform could decline and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. we rely on application marketplaces, such as apple's app store and google's play, to drive downloads of our mobile applications. in the future, apple, google or other operators of application marketplaces may make changes to their marketplaces which make access to our products and services more difficult or limit our use of data to provide targeted advertising. we also depend in part on internet search engines, such as google, apple spotlight, bing and yahoo, to drive traffic to our website. for example, when a user types an inquiry into a search engine, we rely on a high organic search result ranking of our webpages in these search results to refer the user to our website. however, our ability to maintain high organic search result rankings is not within our control. our competitors' search engine optimization, or seo, efforts may result in their websites receiving a higher search result page ranking than ours, or internet search engines could revise their methodologies in a way that would adversely affect our search result rankings. if internet search engines modify their search algorithms in ways that are detrimental to us, or if our competitors' seo efforts are more successful than ours, the growth in our user base could slow. our website has experienced fluctuations in search result rankings in the past, and we anticipate similar fluctuations in the future. any reduction in the number of users directed to our mobile applications or website through application marketplaces and search engines could harm our business and operating results. 31 more people are using devices other than personal computers to access the internet and new platforms to produce and consume co ntent, and we need to continue to promote the adoption of our mobile applications, and our business and operating results may be harmed if we are unable to do so. the number of people who access the internet through devices other than personal computers, including mobile phones, tablets, video game consoles and television set-top devices, has increased dramatically in the past few years. in the three months ended december 31, 2017, 93% of our advertising revenue was generated from mobile devices. since we generate a majority of our advertising revenue through users on mobile devices, we must continue to drive adoption of our mobile applications. however, in emerging markets like india and pakistan, a significant portion of users use feature phones and communicate via sms messaging, both of which have limited functionality and neither of which may be able to take full advantage of our products and services offered on smartphone or our website or desktop applications. in addition, mobile users frequently change or upgrade their mobile devices. our business and operating results may be harmed if our users do not install our mobile application when they change or upgrade their mobile device. although we generate the majority of our advertising revenue from ad engagements on mobile devices, certain of our products and services, including promoted trends and promoted accounts, receive less prominence on our mobile applications than they do on our desktop applications. this has in the past reduced, and may in the future continue to reduce, the amount of revenue we are able to generate from these products and services as users increasingly access our products and services through mobile and alternative devices. in addition, as new devices and platforms are continually being released, users may consume content in a manner that is more difficult to monetize. if we are unable to develop products and services that are compatible with new devices and platforms, or if we are unable to drive continued adoption of our mobile applications, our business and operating results may be harmed. acquisitions, divestitures and investments could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and operating results. our success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our products, product features and services, and grow our business in response to changing technologies, user and advertiser demands, and competitive pressures. in some circumstances, we may determine to do so through the acquisition of complementary businesses and technologies rather than through internal development, including, for example, our acquisitions of periscope, a live-streaming video mobile application, and mopub, a mobile-focused advertising exchange. the identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions. the risks we face in connection with acquisitions include: diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to addressing acquisition integration challenges; retention of key employees from the acquired company; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization; integration of the acquired company's accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems and processes; the need to implement or improve controls, procedures, and policies at a business that prior to the acquisition may have lacked effective controls, procedures and policies; liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including intellectual property infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities; unanticipated write-offs or charges; and litigation or other claims in connection with the acquired company, including claims from terminated employees, users, former stockholders or other third parties. our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with our past or future acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions or investments, cause us to incur unanticipated liabilities, and harm our business generally. future acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses, incremental operating expenses or the impairment of goodwill, any of which could harm our financial condition or operating results. 32 we also make investments in privately-held companies in furtherance of our strategic objectives. we may not realize a return and may recognize a loss on such investments. many of the instruments in which we invest are non-marketable at the time of our initial investment. companies in which we invest range from early-stage companies still defining their strategic direction to more mature companies with established revenue st reams and business models. the success of our investment in any company is typically dependent on the availability to the company of additional funding on favorable terms, or a liquidity event, such as a public offering or acquisition. if any of the compan ies in which we invest decrease in value, we could lose all or part of our investment. for example, in the year ended december 31, 2017, we recorded a $62.4 million cost-method investment impairment charge relating to an investment in a privately-held comp any. in certain cases, we have also divested or stopped investing in certain products. for instance, in january 2017, we divested certain assets related to our fabric platform. in 2017, we also deprecated certain of our revenue products, including tellapart, which was acquired in 2015. in these cases, we have needed to and may, in the future, need to restructure operations, terminate employees and/or incur other expenses. we may not realize the expected benefits and cost savings of these actions and our results may be harmed. if we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. as a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, or the exchange act, the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, as amended, or the sarbanes-oxley act, and the listing standards of the new york stock exchange. the sarbanes-oxley act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. in order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, we have expended, and anticipate that we will continue to expend, significant resources, including accounting-related costs and significant management oversight. any failure to develop or maintain effective controls, or any difficulties encountered in their implementation or improvement, could cause us to be subject to one or more investigations or enforcement actions by state or federal regulatory agencies, stockholder lawsuits or other adverse actions requiring us to incur defense costs, pay fines, settlements or judgments. any such failures could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial and other information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. in addition, if we are unable to continue to meet these requirements, we may not be able to remain listed on the new york stock exchange. if currency exchange rates fluctuate substantially in the future, our operating results, which are reported in u.s. dollars, could be adversely affected. our international operations expose us to the effects of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. we incur expenses for employee compensation and other operating expenses at our international locations in the local currency, and accept payment from advertisers or data partners in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. since we conduct business in currencies other than u.s. dollars but report our operating results in u.s. dollars, we face exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. while we enter into foreign currency forward contracts with financial institutions to reduce the risk that our earnings may be adversely affected by the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on monetary assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of a subsidiary, exchange rate fluctuations between the u.s. dollar and other currencies could have a material impact on our operating results. servicing our convertible senior notes may require a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow or the ability to raise the funds necessary to satisfy our obligations under such notes, and our future debt may contain limitations on our ability to pay cash upon conversion or repurchase of such notes. in 2014, we issued $935.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 0.25% convertible senior notes due 2019, or the 2019 notes, and $954.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 1.00% convertible senior notes due 2021, or the 2021 notes and together with the 2019 notes, the notes, in private placements to qualified institutional buyers. as of december 31, 2017, we had a total par value of $1.89 billion of outstanding notes. 33 holders of the notes will have the right under the in denture for the notes to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change before the relevant maturity date, in each case at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes, plus acc rued and unpaid interest, if any, to the fundamental change repurchase date. in addition, upon conversion of the notes, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle such conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional shares), we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the notes being converted. moreover, we will be required to repay the notes in cash at their maturity, unless earlier converted or repurchased. our ability to refinance the notes, make cash payments in connection with conversions of the notes or repurchase the notes in the event of a fundamental change will depend on market conditions and our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. we also may not use the cash we have raised through the issuance of the notes in an optimally productive and profitable manner. however, since inception we have incurred significant operating losses and we historically had not been cash flow positive and may not be in the future. as a result, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all, at the time we are required to make repurchases of notes surrendered therefor or pay cash with respect to notes being converted or at their maturity and our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our future operations by increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions and by limiting or prohibiting our ability to obtain additional financing for future capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other purposes. in addition, if we are unable to make cash payments upon conversion of the notes we would be required to issue significant amounts of our common stock, which would be dilutive to existing stockholders. if we do not have sufficient cash to repurchase the notes following a fundamental change, we would be in default under the terms of the notes, which could seriously harm our business. in addition, the terms of the notes do not limit the amount of future indebtedness we may incur. if we incur significantly more debt, this could intensify the risks described above. our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, power outages, floods and other catastrophic events, and to interruption by man-made problems such as terrorism. a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire, flood or significant power outage could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. our headquarters and certain of our co-located data center facilities are located in the san francisco bay area, a region known for seismic activity. despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at our data centers could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. in addition, acts of terrorism and other geo-political unrest could cause disruptions in our business. all of the aforementioned risks may be further increased if our disaster recovery plans prove to be inadequate. we have implemented a disaster recovery program, which allows us to move production to a back-up data center in the event of a catastrophe. although this program is functional, we do not currently serve network traffic equally from each data center, so if our primary data center shuts down, there will be a period of time that our products or services, or certain of our products or services, will remain inaccessible to our users or our users may experience severe issues accessing our products and services. we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses, including the potential harm to our business that may result from interruptions in our ability to provide our products and services. 34 we may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities, which could adversely impact our operating results. our income tax obligations are based in part on our corporate operating structure, including the manner in which we develop, value and use our intellectual property and the scope of our international operations. the tax laws applicable to our international business activities, including the laws of the united states and other jurisdictions, are subject to interpretation. the taxing authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our methodologies for valuing developed technology (or other intangible assets) or intercompany arrangements, which could increase our worldwide effective tax rate and harm our financial condition and operating results. on october 5, 2015, the organization for economic cooperation and development (oecd), an international association of thirty four countries, including the u.s. and uk, released the final reports from its base erosion and profit shifting (beps) action plans. the beps recommendations covered a number of issues, including country-by-country reporting, permanent establishment rules, transfer pricing rules and tax treaties. future tax reform resulting from this development may result in changes to long-standing tax principles, which could adversely affect our effective tax rate or result in higher cash tax liabilities. we are subject to review and audit by u.s. federal and state and foreign tax authorities. tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative effect on our financial position and operating results. in addition, our future income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. the 2017 tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ) contains many significant changes to the u.s. federal income tax laws, the consequences to us of which have not yet been fully determined and which could have a material impact on the value of our deferred tax assets, could result in significant one-time charges in the current or future taxable years, and could increase our future u.s. tax expense. furthermore, changes to the taxation of undistributed foreign earnings could change our future intentions regarding reinvestment of such earnings. greater than anticipated tax expenses, or disputes with tax authorities, could adversely impact our operating results. uncertainties in the interpretation and application of the 2017 tax cuts and jobs act could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate. the recently-enacted tax act significantly affected u.s. tax law by changing how u.s. income tax is assessed on multinational corporations. the tax act requires complex computations not previously provided for in u.s. tax law and the u.s. department of treasury may issue regulations and interpretive guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the law and impact our results of operations. additionally, the application of accounting guidance for such items is currently uncertain. further, compliance with the tax act and the accounting for such provisions call for the collection and preparation of information not previously required. due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the tax act, we have made reasonable estimates and recorded a provisional estimate of the effect of the tax act in our financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2017. as additional regulatory and interpretive guidance is issued, we may refine our analysis and make adjustments that differ from our current provisional amounts, which could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate. if our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. under generally accepted accounting principles in the united states, or gaap, we review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. as of december 31, 2017, we had recorded a total of $1.24 billion of goodwill and intangible assets. an adverse change in market conditions or financial results, particularly if such change has the effect of changing one of our critical assumptions or estimates, could result in a change to the estimation of fair value that could result in an impairment charge to our goodwill or intangible assets. any such material charges may have a material negative impact on our operating results. 35 our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited. as of december 31, 2017, we had u.s. federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $3.43 billion and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $1.47 billion. under sections 382 and 383 of the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, or the code, if a corporation undergoes an ownership change, the corporation's ability to use its pre-change net operating loss carryforwards and other pre-change tax attributes, such as research tax credits, to offset its post-change income and taxes may be limited. in general, an ownership change occurs if there is a cumulative change in our ownership by 5% shareholders that exceeds 50 percentage points over a rolling three-year period. similar rules may apply under state tax laws. in the event that it is determined that we have in the past experienced an ownership change, or if we experience one or more ownership changes as a result of future transactions in our stock, then we may be limited in our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax assets to reduce taxes owed on the net taxable income that we earn. in addition, the tax act includes changes to the u.s. federal corporate income tax rate, and our net operating loss carryforwards and other deferred tax assets have been revalued at the newly enacted rate. we do not expect this to have a material impact on our financials because we currently maintain a full valuation allowance on our u.s. deferred tax assets. any such limitations on the ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax assets could adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. risks related to ownership of our common stock anti-takeover provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and delaware law contain provisions which could have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying, or preventing an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. among other things, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include provisions: creating a classified board of directors whose members serve staggered three-year terms; authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval and may contain voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings; requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; and controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of board of directors and stockholder meetings. these provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents certain stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of our outstanding common stock not held by such 15% or greater stockholder. any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. 36 the market price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment. the market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be highly volatile in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. since shares of our common stock were sold in our initial public offering in november 2013 at a price of $26.00 per share, the reported high and low sales prices of our common stock has ranged from $74.73 to $13.72, through december 31, 2017. in addition to the factors discussed in this risk factors section and elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k, factors that could cause fluctuations in the market price of our common stock include the following: price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; volatility in the market prices and trading volumes of technology stocks; changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in our industry in particular; sales of shares of our common stock by us or our stockholders; rumors and market speculation involving us or other companies in our industry; failure of securities analysts to maintain coverage of us, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts who follow our company, or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors; the financial or non-financial metric projections we may provide to the public, any changes in those projections or our failure to meet those projections; announcements by us or our competitors of new products or services; the public's reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the sec; actual or anticipated changes in our operating results or fluctuations in our operating results; actual or anticipated developments in our business, our competitors' businesses or the competitive landscape generally; our issuance of shares of our common stock, whether in connection with an acquisition or upon conversion of some or all of our outstanding notes; litigation involving us, our industry or both, or investigations by regulators into our operations or those of our competitors; developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; announced or completed acquisitions of businesses or technologies by us or our competitors; new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidelines, interpretations or principles; any significant change in our management; and general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of our markets. in addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. any securities litigation can result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. we are currently subject to securities litigation and may experience more such litigation following any future periods of volatility. the note hedge and warrant transactions may affect the value of our common stock. concurrently with the issuance of the notes, we entered into note hedge transactions with certain financial institutions, which we refer to as the option counterparties. the note hedge transactions are generally expected to reduce the potential dilution upon any conversion of the notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount of converted notes, as the case may be. we also entered into warrant transactions with the option counterparties. however, the warrant transactions could separately have a dilutive effect to the extent that the market price of our common stock exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants. 37 the option counterparties or their respective affiliates may modify their initial hedge positi ons by entering into or unwinding various derivatives contracts with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions prior to the maturity of the notes (and are likely t o do so during any observation period related to a conversion of notes or following any repurchase of notes by us on any fundamental change repurchase date or otherwise). this activity could cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of o ur common stock. in addition, if any such convertible note hedge and warrant transactions fail to become effective, the option counterparties or their respective affiliates may unwind their hedge positions with respect to our common stock, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. if securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our common stock adversely, the price of our common stock and trading volume could decline. the trading market for our common stock is influenced, to some extent, by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us, our business, our industry, our market or our competitors. if any of the analysts who cover us change their recommendation regarding our common stock adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, the price of our common stock would likely decline. if any analysts who cover us were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause the price of our common stock or trading volume to decline. we do not expect to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future. we do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. in addition, our credit facility contains restrictions on payments including payments of cash dividends. consequently, investors may need to rely on sales of our common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 68risk factors 12 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 72