risk factors 24 risk factors we operate in a complex and rapidly changing environment that involves risks, many of which are beyond our control. any of the following risks, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or share price. these risks should be read in conjunction with the other information in this annual report on form 10-k. risks related to the business of mylan abbott's subsidiaries that hold ordinary shares are collectively a significant beneficial shareholder of ours and the presence of a significant beneficial shareholder may affect the ability of our other shareholders to exercise influence over us, especially in light of certain voting obligations under our shareholder agreement with abbott and its subsidiaries. abbott's subsidiaries currently own approximately 14.2% of our outstanding ordinary shares. the shares owned by abbott's subsidiaries are subject to the terms of a shareholder agreement, which requires the abbott subsidiaries to vote in favor of the director nominees recommended by our board of directors and in accordance with the recommendation of our board of directors on all other matters, subject to certain exceptions for extraordinary transactions. this voting agreement is in force with respect to ordinary shares owned by abbott's subsidiaries so long as they collectively beneficially own at least five percent of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares. abbott's subsidiaries that hold ordinary shares are collectively a significant beneficial shareholder of ours. having a significant beneficial shareholder that is required in many instances to vote with the recommendation of our board of directors may make it more difficult for our other shareholders to exercise influence over most matters submitted to shareholders for approval, including the election of directors, issuances of securities for equity compensation plans, amendments to the articles, and shareholder proposals submitted pursuant to rule 14a-8 of the exchange act. additionally, such abbott subsidiaries are obligated, pursuant to a shareholder agreement, not to tender any ordinary shares in any tender or exchange offer that our board of directors recommends that the shareholders reject and, if our board of directors has recommended against a transaction, such abbott subsidiaries are required to vote against such transaction, which may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discouraging a third party from seeking to acquire, a majority of our outstanding ordinary shares in a public takeover offer, or control of our board of directors through a proxy solicitation. provisions in our governance arrangements or that are otherwise available under dutch law could discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of us and may affect the market price of our ordinary shares. 24 table of contents some provisions of our governance arrangements that are available under dutch law, such as our grant to a dutch foundation (stichting) of a call option to acquire preferred shares to safeguard the interests of the company, its businesses and its stakeholders against threats to our strategy, mission, independence, continuity and/or identity, may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of us, even if such a change in control is sought by our shareholders. we may be forced to delist, or otherwise choose to delist, from the tel aviv stock exchange in the future and this could have a negative impact on our ordinary share price and on the liquidity of our ordinary shares. on october 29, 2015, the tel aviv stock exchange (the tase ) approved the listing of our ordinary shares on the tase, and our ordinary shares began trading on the tase on november 4, 2015. as a result, our ordinary shares are now listed on both the nasdaq global select stock market ( nasdaq ) and the tase. in connection with our offer to acquire perrigo company plc, we have undertaken that our ordinary shares will be listed on the tase for a period of not less than one year from the date they first started trading on the tase. we have also undertaken with the tase that for as long as our ordinary shares are listed for trading on the tase, if new mylan preferred shares are issued, in response to the dutch foundation (stichting) described above exercising its call option to acquire preferred shares or otherwise, we will take all necessary actions, as soon as practicable and no later than three israeli business days following the issuance of such preferred shares, to notify the tase that we are delisting our ordinary shares from the tase (with such delisting to take effect 90 days later). accordingly, there can be no guarantee as to how long our ordinary shares will continue to be listed on the tase. if we delist from the tase, that could have a negative impact on our ordinary share price and on the liquidity of our ordinary shares for our shareholders, particularly in israel. we do not anticipate paying dividends for the foreseeable future, and our shareholders must rely on increases in the trading price of the ordinary shares to obtain a return on their investment. mylan n.v. does not anticipate paying dividends in the immediate future. we anticipate that we will retain all earnings, if any, to support our operations and to pursue additional transactions to deliver additional shareholder value. any future determination as to the payment of dividends will, subject to dutch law requirements, be at the sole discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our financial position, results of operations, capital requirements, and other factors our board of directors deems relevant at that time. holders of mylan n.v.'s ordinary shares must rely on increases in the trading price of their shares to obtain a return on their investment in the foreseeable future. the market price of the ordinary shares may be volatile, and the value of your investment could materially decline. investors who hold mylan n.v.'s ordinary shares may not be able to sell their shares at or above the price at which they purchased such shares. the share price of mylan n.v.'s ordinary shares fluctuate materially from time to time, and we cannot predict the price of the ordinary shares at any given time. the risk factors described herein could cause the price of the ordinary shares to fluctuate materially. in addition, the stock market in general, including the market for generic and specialty pharmaceutical companies, has experienced price and volume fluctuations. these broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of the ordinary shares, regardless of our operating performance. in addition, the price of the ordinary shares may be affected by the valuations and recommendations of the analysts who cover us, and if our results do not meet the analysts' forecasts and expectations, the price of the ordinary shares could decline as a result of analysts lowering their valuations and recommendations or otherwise. in the past, following periods of volatility in the market and/or in the price of a company's stock, securities class-action litigation has often been instituted against other companies. such litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management's attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we may issue additional ordinary shares upon the exercise of existing warrants, and we or our shareholders also may offer or sell our ordinary shares or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for ordinary shares. an increase in the number of the ordinary shares issued and outstanding and the possibility of sales of ordinary shares or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for ordinary shares may depress the future trading price of the ordinary shares. in addition, if additional offerings occur, the voting power of our then existing shareholders may be diluted. the epd transaction may not achieve all intended benefits or may disrupt our plans and operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully complete the integration of the acquired epd business with the business of mylan inc. or otherwise fully realize the expected benefits of the epd transaction. our ability to fully 25 table of contents realize the anticipated benefits of the epd transaction will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate the acquired epd business with the business of mylan inc. and realize the benefits of the combined business. the combination of two independent businesses is a complex, costly, and time-consuming process. our business may be negatively impacted if we are unable to effectively manage its expanded operations. the integration is ongoing and continues to require significant time and focus from management and may divert attention from the day-to-day operations of our business. additionally, the integration of the businesses could disrupt our plans and operations, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. the expected synergies and operating efficiencies of the epd transaction may not be fully realized, which could result in increased costs and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. in addition, the overall integration of the businesses may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer relationships, and diversion of management's attention, among other potential adverse consequences. the difficulties of combining the operations of the businesses include, among others: the diversion of management's attention to integration matters; difficulties in achieving anticipated synergies, operating efficiencies, business opportunities, and growth prospects from combining the acquired epd business with the business of mylan inc.; difficulties in the integration of operations and it applications, including enterprise resource planning ( erp ) systems; difficulties in the integration of employees; difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company; challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel; and the complexities of managing the ongoing relationship with abbott, and certain of its business partners, which includes agreements providing for transition services, development and manufacturing relationships, and license arrangements. many of these factors are outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues, and diversion of management's time and energy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. in addition, the overall integration of the businesses may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer relationships, and diversion of management's attention, among other potential adverse consequences. furthermore, even if the operations of mylan inc. and the acquired epd business are integrated successfully, we may not realize the full benefits of the epd transaction, including the synergies, operating efficiencies, or sales or growth opportunities that are expected. these benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame or at all. all of these factors could cause dilution to our earnings per share, decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of the epd transaction, and/or negatively impact the price of our ordinary shares. we expect to be treated as a non-u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. any changes to the tax laws or changes in other laws (including under applicable income tax treaties), regulations, rules, or interpretations thereof applicable to inverted companies and their affiliates, whether enacted before or after the epd transaction, may materially adversely affect us. under current u.s. law, we believe that we should not be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes as a result of the epd transaction. changes to section 7874 of the internal revenue code (the code ) or, to the u.s. treasury regulations promulgated thereunder, or interpretations thereof, or to other relevant tax laws (including applicable income tax treaties), could affect our status as a non-u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes and the tax consequences to us and our affiliates. any such changes could have prospective or retroactive application, and may apply even if enacted or promulgated now that the epd transaction has closed. if we were to be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, or if the relevant tax laws (including applicable income tax treaties) change, we would likely be subject to significantly greater u.s. tax liability than currently contemplated as a non-u.s. corporation or if the relevant tax laws (including applicable income tax treaties) had not changed. 26 table of contents on august 5, 2014, the u.s. treasury department announced that it is reviewing a broad range of authorities for possible administrative actions that could limit the ability of a u.s. corporation to complete a transaction in which it becomes a subsidiary of a non-u.s. corporation (commonly known as an inversion transaction ) or reduce certain tax benefits after an inversion transaction takes place. on september 22, 2014 and november 19, 2015, the u.s. treasury department issued notices announcing its intention to promulgate certain regulations that will apply to inversion transactions completed on or after september 22, 2014. in the notices, the u.s. treasury department also announced that it expects to issue additional guidance to further limit and reduce the benefits of certain inversion transactions. in particular, it is considering regulations that may limit income tax treaty eligibility and the ability of certain foreign-owned u.s. corporations to deduct certain interest payments (so-called earnings stripping ). any such future guidance will apply prospectively, but to the extent it applies only to companies that have completed inversion transactions, it will specifically apply to companies that have completed such transactions on or after september 22, 2014. additionally, there have been recent legislative proposals intended to limit or discourage inversion transactions and on may 20, 2015, the u.s. treasury department announced its intention to revise certain provisions of the model income tax treaties, which, if ultimately adopted by the u.s. and relevant jurisdictions, could reduce potential tax benefits for us and our affiliates by imposing u.s. withholding taxes on particular payments from our u.s. affiliates to related and unrelated foreign persons. any such future regulatory or legislative actions regarding inversion transactions or any other changes in relevant tax laws (including under applicable income tax treaties), if taken, could apply to us, could disadvantage us as compared to other corporations, including non-u.s. corporations that have completed inversion transactions prior to september 22, 2014, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. the irs may not agree that we should be treated as a non-u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. the u.s. internal revenue service (the irs ) may not agree that we should be treated as a non-u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. although we are not incorporated in the u.s. and expect to be treated as a non-u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the irs may assert that we should be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. if we were to be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we would likely be subject to significantly greater u.s. tax liability than currently contemplated as a non-u.s. corporation. if the intercompany terms of cross border arrangements that we have among our subsidiaries are determined to be inappropriate or ineffective, our tax liability may increase. we have potential tax exposures resulting from the varying application of statutes, regulations, and interpretations which include exposures on intercompany terms of cross-border arrangements among our subsidiaries (including intercompany loans, sales, and services agreements) in relation to various aspects of our business, including manufacturing, marketing, sales, and delivery functions. although we believe our cross-border arrangements among our subsidiaries are based upon internationally accepted standards and applicable law, tax authorities in various jurisdictions may disagree with and subsequently challenge the amount of profits taxed in their country, which may result in increased tax liability, including accrued interest and penalties, which would cause our tax expense to increase and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we may not be able to maintain competitive financial flexibility and our corporate tax rate. we believe that our structure and operations will give us the ability to achieve competitive financial flexibility and a competitive worldwide effective corporate tax rate. the material assumptions underlying our expected tax rates include the fact that we expect certain of our businesses will be operated outside of the u.s. and, as such, will be subject to a lower tax rate than operations in the u.s., which will result in a lower blended worldwide tax rate we were previously able to achieve. we must also make assumptions regarding the effect of certain internal reorganization transactions, including various intercompany transactions. we cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate will be, however, because of, among other reasons, uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate, potential changes of laws and interpretations thereof, and the potential for tax audits or challenges. our actual effective tax rate may vary from our expectation and that variance may be material. additionally, the tax laws of the u.k., the netherlands and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our effective tax rate. such a material change could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. 27 table of contents unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities and changes in income tax laws and tax rulings may have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate and income tax expense. we are subject to income taxes in many jurisdictions. significant analysis and judgment are required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. the final determination of any tax audits or related litigation could be materially different from our income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in our overall profitability, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the results of audits and the examination of previously filed tax returns by taxing authorities, and continuing assessments of our tax exposures could impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. finally, potential changes to income tax laws in the u.s. include measures which would defer the deduction of interest expense related to deferred income; determine the foreign tax credit on a pooling basis; tax currently excess returns associated with transfers of intangibles offshore; and limit earnings stripping by expatriated entities. in addition, proposals have been made to encourage manufacturing in the u.s., including reduced rates of tax and increased deductions related to manufacturing. we cannot determine whether these proposals will be modified or enacted, whether other proposals unknown at this time will be made, or the extent to which the corporate tax rate might be reduced and lessen the adverse impact of some of these proposals. if enacted, and depending on its precise terms, such legislation could materially increase our overall effective income tax rate and income tax expense and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we may become taxable in a jurisdiction other than the united kingdom and this may increase the aggregate tax burden on us. based on our current management structure and current tax laws of the united states, the united kingdom, and the netherlands, as well as applicable income tax treaties, and current interpretations thereof, the united kingdom and the netherlands competent authorities have determined that we are tax resident solely in the united kingdom for the purposes of the netherlands-u.k. tax treaty. we have received a binding ruling from the competent authorities in the united kingdom and in the netherlands confirming this treatment. we will therefore be tax resident solely in the united kingdom so long as the facts and circumstances set forth in the relevant application letters sent to those authorities remain accurate. even though we received a binding ruling, the applicable tax laws or interpretations thereof may change, or the assumptions on which such rulings were based may differ from the facts. as a consequence, we may become a tax resident of a jurisdiction other than the u.k. as a consequence, our overall effective income tax rate and income tax expense could materially increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we have and will incur direct and indirect costs as a result of our corporate structure. we have incurred costs and expenses in connection with, and will incur further costs and expenses as a result of, becoming a dutch company that is a tax resident of the united kingdom. certain costs are not readily ascertainable and are difficult to quantify and determine. these costs and expenses include professional fees associated with complying with dutch corporate law and financial reporting requirements, professional fees associated with complying with the tax laws of the united kingdom, and costs and expenses incurred in connection with holding a majority of the meetings of our board of directors and certain executive management meetings in the u.k., as well as any additional costs we may incur going forward as a result of our new corporate structure. these costs may materially exceed the costs historically borne by us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we have grown at a very rapid pace and expect to aggressively pursue additional acquisition opportunities that make financial and strategic sense for us. our inability to effectively manage or support this growth may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we have grown very rapidly over the past several years as a result of increasing sales and several acquisitions and other transactions, and expect to aggressively pursue additional acquisition opportunities that make financial and strategic sense for 28 table of contents us. we evaluate various strategic transactions and business arrangements, including acquisitions, asset purchases, partnerships, joint ventures, restructurings, divestitures and investments, on an ongoing basis. these transactions and arrangements may be material both from a strategic and financial perspective. we are currently in the process of evaluating certain potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions, and we may choose to aggressively pursue one or more of these opportunities at any time. some of these opportunities would be material if pursued and consummated. our growth has, and will continue to, put significant demands on our processes, systems, and employees. we have made and expect to make further investments in additional personnel, systems, and internal control processes to help manage our growth. attracting, retaining and motivating key employees in various departments and locations to support our growth are critical to our business, and competition for these people can be significant. if we are unable to hire and/or retain qualified employees and/or if we do not effectively invest in systems and processes to manage and support our rapid growth and the challenges and difficulties associated with managing a larger, more complex business, and/or if we cannot effectively manage and integrate our increasingly diverse and global platform, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. current and changing economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business, partners and suppliers, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. the global economy continues to experience significant volatility, and the economic environment may continue to be, or become, less favorable than that of past years. among other matters, the continued risk of a default on sovereign debt by one or more european countries, related financial restructuring efforts in europe, and/or evolving deficit and spending reduction programs instituted by the u.s. and other governments could negatively impact the global economy and/or the pharmaceutical industry. this has led, and/or could lead, to reduced consumer and customer spending and/or reduced or eliminated governmental or third party payor coverage or reimbursement in the foreseeable future, and this may include reduced spending on healthcare, including but not limited to pharmaceutical products. while generic drugs present an alternative to higher-priced branded products, our sales could be negatively impacted if patients forego obtaining healthcare, patients and customers reduce spending or purchases, and/or if governments and/or third-party payors reduce or eliminate coverage or reimbursement amounts for pharmaceuticals and/or impose price or other controls adversely impacting the price or availability of pharmaceuticals. in addition, reduced consumer and customer spending, and/or reduced government and/or third-party payor coverage or reimbursement, and/or new government controls, may drive us and our competitors to decrease prices and/or may reduce the ability of customers to pay and/or may result in reduced demand for our products. the occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our industry, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. our business, financial condition, and results of operations are subject to risks arising from the international scope of our operations. our operations extend to numerous countries outside the u.s. and are subject to the risks inherent in conducting business globally and under the laws, regulations, and customs of various jurisdictions. these risks include, but are not limited to: compliance with a variety of national and local laws of countries in which we do business, including, but not limited to, data privacy and security and restrictions on the import and export of certain intermediates, drugs, and technologies; compliance with a variety of u.s. laws including, but not limited to, the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012; and rules relating to the use of certain conflict minerals under section 1502 of the dodd-frank wall street reform and the consumer protection act; changes in laws, regulations, and practices affecting the pharmaceutical industry and the healthcare system, including but not limited to imports, exports, manufacturing, quality, cost, pricing, reimbursement, approval, inspection, and delivery of healthcare; fluctuations in exchange rates for transactions conducted in currencies other than the functional currency; differing local product preferences and product requirements; 29 table of contents adverse changes in the economies in which we or our partners and suppliers operate as a result of a slowdown in overall growth, a change in government or economic policies, or financial, political, or social change or instability in such countries that affects the markets in which we operate, particularly emerging markets; changes in employment laws, wage increases, or rising inflation in the countries in which we or our partners and suppliers operate; supply disruptions, and increases in energy and transportation costs; natural disasters, including droughts, floods, and earthquakes in the countries in which we operate; local disturbances, terrorist attacks, riots, social disruption, or regional hostilities in the countries in which we or our partners and suppliers operate; and government uncertainty, including as a result of new or changed laws and regulations. we also face the risk that some of our competitors have more experience with operations in such countries or with international operations generally and may be able to manage unexpected crises more easily. furthermore, whether due to language, cultural or other differences, public and other statements that we make may be misinterpreted, misconstrued, or taken out of context in different jurisdictions. moreover, the internal political stability of, or the relationship between, any country or countries where we conduct business operations may deteriorate. changes in a country's political stability or the state of relations between any such countries are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our operations. any such changes could lead to a decline in our profitability and/or adversely impact our ability to do business. any meaningful deterioration of the political or social stability in and/or diplomatic relations between any countries in which we or our partners and suppliers do business could have a material adverse effect on our operations. the occurrence of any of the above risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we are subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, u.k. bribery act, and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws, which impose restrictions on certain conduct and may carry substantial fines and penalties. we are subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions. these laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from engaging in bribery or making other prohibited payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and some have record keeping requirements. the failure to comply with these laws could result in substantial criminal and/or monetary penalties. we operate in jurisdictions that have experienced corruption, bribery, pay-offs and other similar practices from time-to-time and, in certain circumstances, such practices may be local custom. we have implemented internal control policies and procedures that mandate compliance with these anti-corruption laws. however, we cannot be certain that these policies and procedures will protect us against liability. there can be no assurance that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. if our employees or agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe criminal or civil penalties and other consequences that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. our failure to comply with applicable environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations worldwide could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we are subject to various u.s. federal, state, and local and non-u.s. laws and regulations concerning, among other things, the environment, climate change, regulation of chemicals, employee safety and product safety. these requirements include regulation of the handling, manufacture, transportation, storage, use and disposal of materials, including the discharge of hazardous materials and pollutants into the environment. in the normal course of our business, we are exposed to risks relating to possible releases of hazardous substances into the environment, which could cause environmental or property damage or personal injuries, and which could result in (i) our noncompliance with such environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations and (ii) regulatory enforcement actions or claims for personal injury and property damage against us. if an unapproved or illegal environmental discharge occurs, or if we discover contamination caused by prior operations, including by prior owners and operators of properties we acquire, we could be liable for cleanup obligations, damages and fines. the substantial unexpected costs we may incur could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. in addition, our environmental capital expenditures and costs for environmental compliance may increase substantially in the future as a result of changes in 30 table of contents environmental laws and regulations, the development and manufacturing of a new product or increased development or manufacturing activities at any of our facilities. we may be required to expend significant funds and our manufacturing activities could be delayed or suspended, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. currency fluctuations and changes in exchange rates could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. although we report our financial results in u.s. dollars, a significant portion of our revenues, indebtedness and other liabilities and our costs are denominated in non-u.s. currencies, including among others the euro, indian rupee, british pound, canadian dollar, japanese yen, australian dollar and brazilian real. our results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows, have in the past been and may in the future be adversely affected by certain movements in currency exchange rates. in particular, the risk of a debt default by one or more european countries and related european or national financial restructuring efforts may cause volatility in the value of the euro. defaults or restructurings in other countries could have a similar adverse impact. from time to time, we may implement currency hedges intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. however, our hedging strategies may not be successful, and any of our unhedged foreign exchange exposures will continue to be subject to market fluctuations. the occurrence of any of the above risks could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. our significant operations in india may be adversely affected by regulatory, economic, social, and political uncertainties or change, major hostilities, military activity, and/or acts of terrorism in southern asia. in recent years, our indian subsidiaries have benefited from many policies of the government of india and the indian state governments in which they operate, which are designed to promote foreign investment generally, including significant tax incentives, liberalized import and export duties, and preferential rules on foreign investment and repatriation. there is no assurance that such policies will continue. various factors, such as changes in the current federal government, could trigger significant changes in india's economic liberalization and deregulation policies and disrupt business and economic conditions in india generally and our business in particular. in addition, our financial performance may be adversely affected by general economic conditions; economic, fiscal and social policy in india, including changes in exchange rates and controls, interest rates and taxation policies; and social instability and political, economic, or diplomatic developments affecting india in the future. in particular, india has experienced significant economic growth over the last several years, but faces major challenges in sustaining that growth in the years ahead. these challenges include the need for substantial infrastructure development and improving access to healthcare and education. our ability to recruit, train, and retain qualified employees and develop and operate our manufacturing facilities in india could be adversely affected if india does not successfully meet these challenges. southern asia has, from time to time, experienced instances of civil unrest and hostilities among neighboring countries, including india and pakistan, and within the countries themselves. terrorist attacks, military activity, rioting, or civil or political unrest in the future could influence the indian economy and our operations and employees by disrupting operations and communications and making travel and the conduct of our business more difficult. resulting political or social tensions could create a greater perception that investments in companies with indian operations involve a high degree of risk, and that there is a risk of disruption of services provided by companies with indian operations, which could impact our customers' willingness to do business with us and have a material adverse effect on the market for our products. furthermore, if india were to become engaged in armed hostilities, including but not limited to hostilities that were protracted or involved the threat or use of nuclear or other weapons of mass destruction, our india operations might not be able to continue. we generally do not have insurance for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist attacks, military conflicts and wars. the occurrence of any of these risks could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. an inability to identify or successfully bid for suitable acquisition targets, or consummate and effectively integrate recent and future potential acquisitions, or to effectively deal with and respond to unsolicited business proposals could limit our future growth and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. 31 table of contents we intend to continue to seek to expand our product line and/or business platform organically as well as through complementary or strategic acquisitions of other companies, products, or assets or through joint ventures, licensing agreements, or other arrangements. acquisitions or similar arrangements may prove to be complex and time consuming and require substantial resources and effort. we may compete for certain acquisition targets with companies having greater financial resources than us or other advantages over us that may hinder or prevent us from acquiring a target company or completing another transaction, which could also result in significant diversion of management time, as well as substantial out-of-pocket costs. if an acquisition is consummated, the integration of such acquired business, product, or other assets into us may also be complex, time consuming, and result in substantial costs and risks. the integration process may distract management and/or disrupt our ongoing businesses, which may adversely affect our relationships with customers, employees, partners, suppliers, regulators, and others with whom we have business or other dealings. in addition, there are operational risks associated with the integration of acquired businesses. these risks include, but are not limited to, difficulties in achieving or inability to achieve identified or anticipated financial and operating synergies, cost savings, revenue synergies, and growth opportunities; difficulties in consolidating or inability to effectively consolidate information technology and manufacturing platforms, business applications, and corporate infrastructure; the impact of pre-existing legal and/or regulatory issues, such as quality and manufacturing concerns, among others; the risks that acquired companies or businesses do not operate to the same quality, manufacturing, or other standards as us; the impacts of substantial indebtedness and assumed liabilities; challenges associated with operating in new markets; and the unanticipated effects of export controls, exchange rate fluctuations, domestic and foreign political conditions, and/or domestic and foreign economic conditions. in addition, in april 2015 we received an unsolicited and subsequently withdrawn non-binding expression of interest from teva pharmaceutical industries ltd. to acquire all of our outstanding shares and may receive similar proposals in the future. such unsolicited business proposals may not be consistent with or enhancing to our financial, operational, or market strategies (which we believe have proven to be successful) and may not further the interests of our shareholders and other stakeholders, including employees, creditors, customers, suppliers, relevant patient populations and communities in which mylan operates and may jeopardize the sustainable success of mylan's business. however, the evaluation of and response to such unsolicited business proposals may nevertheless distract management and/or disrupt our ongoing businesses, which may adversely affect our relationships with customers, employees, partners, suppliers, regulators, and others with whom we have business or other dealings. we may be unable to realize synergies or other benefits, including tax savings, expected to result from acquisitions, joint ventures, or other transactions or investments we may undertake, or we may be unable to generate additional revenue to offset any unanticipated inability to realize these expected synergies or benefits. realization of the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or other transactions could take longer than expected, and implementation difficulties, unforeseen expenses, complications and delays, market factors, or deterioration in domestic and global economic conditions could reduce the anticipated benefits of any such transactions. we also may inherit legal, regulatory, and other risks that occurred prior to the acquisition, whether known or unknown to us. any one of these challenges or risks could impair our growth and ability to compete, require us to focus additional resources on integration of operations rather than more profitable activities, require us to reexamine our business strategy, or otherwise cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we may decide to sell assets, which could adversely affect our prospects and opportunities for growth. we may from time to time consider selling certain assets if (i) we determine that such assets are not critical to our strategy or (ii) we believe the opportunity to monetize the asset is attractive or for various other reasons, including for the reduction of indebtedness. we have explored and will continue to explore the sale of certain non-core assets. although our expectation is to engage in asset sales only if they advance or otherwise support our overall strategy, any such sale could reduce the size or scope of our business, our market share in particular markets or our opportunities with respect to certain markets, products or therapeutic categories. as a result, any such sale could have an adverse effect on our business, prospects and opportunities for growth, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. charges to earnings resulting from acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or ordinary share price. 32 table of contents under u.s. gaap business acquisition accounting standards, we recognize the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interests in acquired companies generally at their acquisition date fair values and, in each case, separately from goodwill. goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess amount of consideration transferred, which is also generally measured at fair value, and the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain. after we complete an acquisition, the following factors could result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results and may adversely affect our cash flows: costs incurred to combine the operations of companies we acquire, such as transitional employee expenses and employee retention, redeployment or relocation expenses; impairment of goodwill or intangible assets, including acquired in-process research and development; amortization of intangible assets acquired; a reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired; identification of or changes to assumed contingent liabilities, including, but not limited to, contingent purchase price consideration, income tax contingencies and other non-income tax contingencies, after our final determination of the amounts for these contingencies or the conclusion of the measurement period (generally up to one year from the acquisition date), whichever comes first; charges to our operating results to eliminate certain duplicative pre-acquisition activities, to restructure our operations or to reduce our cost structure; charges to our operating results resulting from expenses incurred to effect the acquisition; and changes to contingent consideration liabilities, including accretion and fair value adjustments. a significant portion of these adjustments could be accounted for as expenses that will decrease our net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those costs are incurred. such charges could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. the significant and increasing amount of intangible assets and goodwill recorded on our balance sheet, mainly related to acquisitions, may lead to significant impairment charges in the future which could lead us to have to take significant charges against earnings. we regularly review our long-lived assets, including identifiable intangible assets and goodwill, for impairment. goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are subject to impairment assessment at least annually. other long-lived assets are reviewed when there is an indication that an impairment may have occurred. the amount of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet has increased significantly as a result of our acquisitions and other transactions and may increase further following future potential acquisitions. in addition, we may from time to time sell assets that we determine are not critical to our strategy or execution. future events or decisions may lead to asset impairments and/or related charges. certain non-cash impairments may result from a change in our strategic goals, business direction or other factors relating to the overall business environment. any impairment of the value of goodwill or other intangible assets will result in a charge against earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, shareholder's equity, and/or ordinary share price. the pharmaceutical industry is heavily regulated and we face significant costs and uncertainties associated with our efforts to comply with applicable laws and regulations. the pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by various governmental authorities. for instance, we must comply with applicable laws and requirements of the fda and comparable regulatory agencies, including foreign authorities, in our other markets with respect to the research, development, manufacture, quality, safety, effectiveness, approval, labeling, storage, record-keeping, reporting, pharmacovigilance, sale, distribution, import, export, marketing, advertising, and promotion of pharmaceutical products. failure to comply with regulations of the fda and other foreign regulators could result in a range of consequences, including, but not limited to, fines, penalties, disgorgement, unanticipated compliance expenditures, suspension 33 table of contents of review of applications or other submissions, rejection or delay in approval of applications, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, our inability to sell products, the return by customers of our products, injunctions, and/or criminal prosecution. under certain circumstances, a regulator may also have the authority to revoke or vary previously granted drug approvals. the safety profile of any product will continue to be closely monitored by the fda and comparable foreign regulatory authorities after approval. if the fda or comparable foreign regulatory authorities become aware of new safety information about any of our marketed or investigational products, those authorities may require labeling changes, establishment of a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy or similar strategy, restrictions on a product's indicated uses or marketing, or post-approval studies or post-market surveillance. the fda and comparable regulatory authorities also regulate the facilities and operational procedures that we use to manufacture our products. we must register our facilities with the fda and similar regulators in other countries. products must be manufactured in our facilities in accordance with current good manufacturing practices ( cgmp ) or similar standards in each territory in which we manufacture. compliance with such regulations requires substantial expenditures of time, money, and effort in multiple areas, including training of personnel, record-keeping, production, and quality control and quality assurance. the fda and other regulatory authorities, including foreign authorities, periodically inspect our manufacturing facilities for compliance with cgmp or similar standards in the applicable territory. regulatory approval to manufacture a drug is granted on a site-specific basis. failure to comply with cgmp and other regulatory standards at one of our or our partners' or suppliers' manufacturing facilities could result in an adverse action brought by the fda or other regulatory authorities, which could result in a receipt of an untitled or warning letter, fines, penalties, disgorgement, unanticipated compliance expenditures, rejection or delay in approval of applications, suspension of review of applications or other submissions, suspension of ongoing clinical trials, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, our inability to sell products, the return by customers of our products, orders to suspend, vary, or withdraw marketing authorizations, injunctions, consent decrees, requirements to modify promotional materials or issue corrective information to healthcare practitioners, refusal to permit import or export, criminal prosecution and/or other adverse actions. if any regulatory body were to delay, withhold, or withdraw approval of an application; require a recall or other adverse product action; require one of our manufacturing facilities to cease or limit production; or suspend, vary, or withdraw related marketing authorization, our business could be adversely affected. delay and cost in obtaining fda or other regulatory approval to manufacture at a different facility also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. although we have established internal regulatory compliance programs and policies, there is no guarantee that these programs and policies, as currently designed, will meet regulatory agency standards in the future or will prevent instances of non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations. additionally, despite our efforts at compliance, from time to time we receive notices of manufacturing and quality-related observations following inspections by regulatory authorities around the world, as well as official agency correspondence regarding compliance. we may receive similar observations and correspondence in the future. if we are unable to resolve these observations and address regulator's concerns in a timely fashion, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price could be materially affected. on september 9, 2013, prior to our completion of the agila acquisition, the fda issued a warning letter to strides arcolab for its agila sterile manufacturing facility 2 in bangalore, india. on august 6, 2015, the fda issued a second warning letter regarding this facility, the agila onco therapies limited facility and the agila sterile product division facility. we are working to resolve this matter expeditiously and we continue to work closely with the fda and other regulatory entities to address our improvements at all agila facilities. no assurances can be provided that the resolution of the issues identified in the fda's letters will not have a material adverse effect on our global injectables business. failing to resolve the issues identified in the fda's letter could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we are subject to various federal, state and local laws regulating working conditions, as well as environmental protection laws and regulations, including those governing the discharge of materials into the environment and those related to climate change. if changes to such environmental laws and regulations are made in the future that require significant changes in our operations, or if we engage in the development and manufacturing of new products requiring new or different environmental or other controls, or if we are found to have violated any applicable rules, we may be required to expend significant funds. such changes, delays, and/or suspensions of activities or the occurrence of any of the above risks, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. 34 table of contents the use of legal, regulatory, and legislative strategies by both brand and generic competitors, including but not limited to authorized generics and regulatory petitions, as well as the potential impact of proposed and newly enacted legislation, may increase costs associated with the introduction or marketing of our generic products, could delay or prevent such introduction, and could significantly reduce our revenue and profit. our competitors, both branded and generic, often pursue strategies to prevent, delay, or eliminate competition from generic alternatives to branded products. these strategies include, but are not limited to: entering into agreements whereby other generic companies will begin to market an authorized generic, a generic equivalent of a branded product, at the same time or after generic competition initially enters the market; launching a generic version of their own branded product prior to or at the same time or after generic competition initially enters the market; filing petitions with the fda or other regulatory bodies seeking to prevent or delay approvals, including timing the filings so as to thwart generic competition by causing delays of our product approvals; seeking to establish regulatory and legal obstacles that would make it more difficult to demonstrate bioequivalence or to meet other requirements for approval, and/or to prevent regulatory agency review of applications, such as through the establishment of patent linkage (laws and regulations barring the issuance of regulatory approvals prior to patent expiration); initiating legislative or other efforts to limit the substitution of generic versions of brand pharmaceuticals; filing suits for patent infringement and other claims that may delay or prevent regulatory approval, manufacture, and/or scale of generic products; introducing next-generation products prior to the expiration of market exclusivity for the reference product, which often materially reduces the demand for the generic or the reference product for which we seek regulatory approval; persuading regulatory bodies to withdraw the approval of brand name drugs for which the patents are about to expire and converting the market to another product of the brand company on which longer patent protection exists; obtaining extensions of market exclusivity by conducting clinical trials of brand drugs in pediatric populations or by other methods; and seeking to obtain new patents on drugs for which patent protection is about to expire. in the u.s., some companies have lobbied congress for amendments to the hatch-waxman act that would give them additional advantages over generic competitors. for example, although the term of a company's drug patent can be extended to reflect a portion of the time an nda is under regulatory review, some companies have proposed extending the patent term by a full year for each year spent in clinical trials rather than the one-half year that is currently permitted. if proposals like these in the u.s., europe, or in other countries where we or our partners and suppliers operate were to become effective, or if any other actions by our competitors and other third parties to prevent or delay activities necessary to the approval, manufacture, or distribution of our products are successful, our entry into the market and our ability to generate revenues associated with new products may be delayed, reduced, or eliminated, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. if we are unable to successfully introduce new products in a timely manner, our future revenue and profit may be adversely affected. our future revenues and profitability will depend, in part, upon our ability to successfully and timely develop, license, or otherwise acquire and commercialize new generic products as well as branded pharmaceutical products protected by patent or statutory authority. product development is inherently risky, especially for new drugs for which safety and efficacy have not 35 table of contents been established and/or the market is not yet proven as well as for complex generic drugs and biosimilars. likewise, product licensing involves inherent risks, including among others uncertainties due to matters that may affect the achievement of milestones, as well as the possibility of contractual disagreements with regard to whether the supply of product meets certain specifications or terms such as license scope or termination rights. the development and commercialization process, particularly with regard to new and complex drugs, also requires substantial time, effort and financial resources. we, or a partner, may not be successful in commercializing any of such products on a timely basis, if at all, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. before any prescription drug product, including generic drug products, can be marketed, marketing authorization approval is required by the relevant regulatory authorities and/or national regulatory agencies (for example the fda in the u.s. and the ema in the eu). the process of obtaining regulatory approval to manufacture and market new branded and generic pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time consuming, costly, and inherently unpredictable. outside the u.s., the approval process may be more or less rigorous, depending on the country, and the time required for approval may be longer or shorter than that required in the u.s. bioequivalence, clinical, or other studies conducted in one country may not be accepted in other countries, the requirements for approval may differ among countries, and the approval of a pharmaceutical product in one country does not necessarily mean that the product will be approved in another country. we, or a partner or supplier, may be unable to obtain requisite approvals on a timely basis, or at all, for new generic or branded products that we may develop, license or otherwise acquire. moreover, if we obtain regulatory approval for a drug, it may be limited, for example, with respect to the indicated uses and delivery methods for which the drug may be marketed, or may include warnings, precautions or contraindications in the labeling, which could restrict our potential market for the drug. a regulatory approval may also include post-approval study or risk management requirements that may substantially increase the resources required to market the drug. also, for products pending approval, we may obtain raw materials or produce batches of inventory to be used in efficacy and bioequivalence testing, as well as in anticipation of the product's launch. in the event that regulatory approval is denied or delayed, we could be exposed to the risk of this inventory becoming obsolete. the approval process for generic pharmaceutical products often results in the relevant regulatory agency granting final approval to a number of generic pharmaceutical products at the time a patent claim for a corresponding branded product or other market exclusivity expires. this often forces us to face immediate competition when we introduce a generic product into the market. additionally, further generic approvals often continue to be granted for a given product subsequent to the initial launch of the generic product. these circumstances generally result in significantly lower prices, as well as reduced margins, for generic products compared to branded products. new generic market entrants generally cause continued price, margin, and sales erosion over the generic product life cycle. in the u.s., the hatch-waxman act provides for a period of 180 days of generic marketing exclusivity for a first applicant, that is the first submitted anda containing a certification of invalidity, non-infringement or unenforceability related to a patent listed with the anda's reference drug product, commonly referred to as a paragraph iv certification. during this exclusivity period, which under certain circumstances may be shared with other andas filed on the same day, the fda cannot grant final approval to later-submitted andas for the same generic equivalent. if an anda is awarded 180-day exclusivity, the applicant generally enjoys higher market share, net revenues, and gross margin for that generic product. however, our ability to obtain 180 days of generic marketing exclusivity may be dependent upon our ability to obtain fda approval or tentative approval within an applicable time period of the fda's acceptance of our anda. if we are unable to obtain approval or tentative approval within that time period, we may risk forfeiture of such marketing exclusivity. by contrast, if we are not a first applicant to challenge a listed patent for such a product, we may lose significant advantages to a competitor with 180-day exclusivity, even if we obtain fda approval for our generic drug product. the same would be true in situations where we are required to share our exclusivity period with other anda sponsors with paragraph iv certifications. in the eu and other countries and regions, there is no exclusivity period for the first generic product. the european commission or national regulatory agencies may grant marketing authorizations to any number of generics. if we are unable to navigate our products through the approval process in a timely manner, there could be an adverse effect on our product introduction plans, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we expend a significant amount of resources on research and development efforts that may not lead to successful product introductions. much of our development effort is focused on technically difficult-to-formulate products and/or products that require advanced manufacturing technology, including our generic biologics program and respiratory platform. we conduct r&amp;d 36 table of contents primarily to enable us to gain approval for, manufacture, and market pharmaceuticals in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. we also partner with third parties to develop products. typically, research expenses related to the development of innovative or complex compounds and the filing of marketing authorization applications for innovative and complex compounds (such as ndas and biosimilar applications in the u.s.) are significantly greater than those expenses associated with the development of and filing of marketing authorization applications for most generic products (such as andas in the u.s. and abridged applications in europe). as we and our partners continue to develop new and/or complex products, our research expenses will likely increase. because of the inherent risk associated with r&amp;d efforts in our industry, including the high cost and uncertainty of conducting clinical trials (where required) particularly with respect to new and/or complex drugs, our, or a partner's, research and development expenditures may not result in the successful introduction of new pharmaceutical products approved by the relevant regulatory bodies. also, after we submit a marketing authorization application for a new compound or generic product, the relevant regulatory authority may change standards and/or request that we conduct additional studies or evaluations and, as a result, we may incur approval delays as well as r&amp;d costs in excess of what we anticipated. clinical testing is expensive and can take many years to complete, and its outcome is inherently uncertain. failure can occur at any time during the clinical trial process. we or our partners may experience delays in our ongoing or future clinical trials, and we do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin or enroll subjects on time, need to be redesigned, or be completed on schedule, if at all. clinical trials may be delayed, suspended or prematurely terminated for a variety of reasons. if we experience delays in the completion of, or the termination of, any clinical trial of our product candidates, the commercial prospects of our product candidates will be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues from any of these product candidates will be delayed. in addition, any delays in completing our clinical trials will increase our costs, slow down our product candidate development and approval process, and jeopardize our ability to commence product sales and generate revenues. any of these occurrences may harm our business, financial condition and prospects significantly. in addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of our product candidates. finally, we cannot be certain that any investment made in developing products will be recovered, even if we are successful in commercialization. to the extent that we expend significant resources on r&amp;d efforts and are not able, ultimately, to introduce successful new and/or complex products as a result of those efforts, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. even if our products in development receive regulatory approval, such products may not achieve expected levels of market acceptance. even if we are able to obtain regulatory approvals for our new generic or branded pharmaceutical products, the success of those products is dependent upon market acceptance. levels of market acceptance for our products could be impacted by several factors, including but not limited to: the availability, perceived advantages, and relative safety and efficacy of alternative products from our competitors; the degree to which the approved labeling supports promotional initiatives for commercial success; the prices of our products relative to those of our competitors; the timing of our market entry; the effectiveness of our marketing, sales, and distribution strategy and operations; other competitor actions; and the continued acceptance of and/or reimbursement for our products by government and private formularies and/or third party payors, as well as the willingness and ability of patients to pay for our products. additionally, studies of the proper utilization, safety, and efficacy of pharmaceutical products are being conducted by the industry, government agencies, and others. such studies, which increasingly employ sophisticated methods and techniques, can call into question the utilization, safety, and efficacy of previously marketed as well as future products. in some cases, such studies have resulted, and may in the future result, in the discontinuation or variation of product marketing authorizations or 37 table of contents requirements for risk management programs, such as a patient registry. any of these events could adversely affect our profitability, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. the development, approval process, manufacture and commercialization of biosimilar products involve unique challenges and uncertainties, and our failure to successfully introduce biosimilar products could have a negative impact on our business and future operating results. we and our partners and suppliers are actively working to develop and commercialize biosimilar products - that is, a biological product that is highly similar to an already approved reference biological product, and for which there are no clinically meaningful differences between the biosimilar and the reference biological product in terms of safety, purity and potency. although the biologics price competition and innovation act of 2009 established a framework for the review and approval of biosimilar products and the fda has begun to review and approve biosimilar product applications, there continues to be significant uncertainty regarding the regulatory pathway in the u.s. and in other countries to obtain approval for biosimilar products. there is also uncertainty regarding the commercial pathway to successfully market and sell such products. moreover, biosimilar products will likely be subject to extensive patent clearances and patent infringement litigation, which could delay or prevent the commercial launch of a biosimilar product for many years. if we are unable to obtain fda or other non-u.s. regulatory authority approval for our products, we will be unable to market them. even if our biosimilar products are approved for marketing, the products may not be commercially successful and may not generate profits in amounts that are sufficient to offset the amount invested to obtain such approvals. market success of biosimilar products will depend on demonstrating to regulators, patients, physicians and payors (such as insurance companies) that such products are safe and effective yet offer a more competitive price or other benefit over existing therapies. in addition, the development and manufacture of biosimilars pose unique challenges related to the supply of the materials needed to manufacture biosimilars. access to and the supply of necessary biological materials may be limited, and government regulations restrict access to and regulate the transport and use of such materials. we may not be able to generate future sales of biosimilar products in certain jurisdictions and may not realize the anticipated benefits of our investments in the development, manufacture and sale of such products. if our development efforts do not result in the development and timely approval of biosimilar products or if such products, once developed and approved, are not commercially successful, or upon the occurrence of any of the above risks, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price could be materially adversely affected. our business is highly dependent upon market perceptions of us, our brands, and the safety and quality of our products, and may be adversely impacted by negative publicity or findings. market perceptions of us are very important to our business, especially market perceptions of our company and brands and the safety and quality of our products. if we, our partners and suppliers, or our brands suffer from negative publicity, or if any of our products or similar products which other companies distribute are subject to market withdrawal or recall or are proven to be, or are claimed to be, ineffective or harmful to consumers, then this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. also, because we are dependent on market perceptions, negative publicity associated with product quality, patient illness, or other adverse effects resulting from, or perceived to be resulting from, our products, or our partners' and suppliers' manufacturing facilities, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. the illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit versions of our products or of diverted or stolen products could have a negative impact on our reputation and our business. the pharmaceutical drug supply has been increasingly challenged by the vulnerability of distribution channels to illegal counterfeiting and the presence of counterfeit products in a growing number of markets and over the internet. third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit versions of our products that do not meet the rigorous manufacturing and testing standards that our products undergo. counterfeit products are frequently unsafe or ineffective, and can be potentially life-threatening. counterfeit medicines may contain harmful substances, the wrong dose of api or no api at all. however, to distributors and users, counterfeit products may be visually indistinguishable from the authentic version. reports of adverse reactions to counterfeit drugs or increased levels of counterfeiting could materially affect patient confidence in the authentic product. it is possible that adverse events caused by unsafe counterfeit products will mistakenly be 38 table of contents attributed to the authentic product. in addition, unauthorized diversions of products or thefts of inventory at warehouses, plants, or while in-transit, which are not properly stored and which are sold through unauthorized channels, could adversely impact patient safety, our reputation, and our business. public loss of confidence in the integrity of pharmaceutical products as a result of counterfeiting, diversion, or theft could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. our competitors, including branded pharmaceutical companies, and/or other third parties, may allege that we and/or our suppliers are infringing upon their intellectual property, including in an at risk launch situation, impacting our ability to launch a product, and/or our ability to continue marketing a product, and/or forcing us to expend substantial resources in resulting litigation, the outcome of which is uncertain. companies that produce branded pharmaceutical products and other patent holders routinely bring litigation against entities selling or seeking regulatory approval to manufacture and market generic forms of their branded products, as well as other entities involved in the manufacture, supply, testing, marketing, and other aspects relating to active pharmaceutical ingredients and finished pharmaceutical products. these companies and other patent holders allege patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights as the basis for filing suit against an applicant for a generic product license as well as others who may be involved in some aspect of the research, production, distribution, or testing process. litigation often involves significant expense and can delay or prevent introduction or sale of our generic products. if patents are held valid and infringed by our products in a particular jurisdiction, we and/or our supplier(s) or partner(s) would, unless we or the supplier(s) or partner(s) could obtain a license from the patent holder, need to cease manufacturing and other activities, including but not limited to selling in that jurisdiction, and may need to surrender or withdraw the product, or destroy existing stock in that jurisdiction. there also may be situations where we use our business judgment and decide to manufacture, market, and/or sell products, directly or through third parties, notwithstanding the fact that allegations of patent infringement(s) have not been finally resolved by the courts (i.e., an at-risk launch ). the risk involved in doing so can be substantial because the remedies available to the owner of a patent for infringement may include, among other things, damages measured by the profits lost by the patent holder and not necessarily by the profits earned by the infringer. in the case of a finding by a court of willful infringement, the definition of which is subjective, such damages may be increased by an additional 200% in certain jurisdictions, including the u.s. moreover, because of the discount pricing typically involved with bioequivalent (generic) products, patented branded products generally realize a substantially higher profit margin than bioequivalent products. an adverse decision in a case such as this or in other similar litigation, or a judicial order preventing us or our suppliers and partners from manufacturing, marketing, selling, and/or other activities necessary to the manufacture and distribution of our products, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. if we or any partner or supplier fail to obtain or adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, then we could lose revenue under our licensing agreements or lose sales to generic copies of our branded products. our success, particularly in our specialty and branded businesses, depends in part on our or any partner's or supplier's ability to obtain, maintain and enforce patents, and protect trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, and other intellectual property and proprietary information. our ability to commercialize any branded product successfully will largely depend upon our or any partner's or supplier's ability to obtain and maintain patents and trademarks of sufficient scope to lawfully prevent third-parties from developing and/or marketing infringing products. in the absence of intellectual property or other protection, competitors may adversely affect our branded products business by independently developing and/or marketing substantially equivalent products. it is also possible that we could incur substantial costs if we are required to initiate litigation against others to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. we have filed patent applications covering the composition of, methods of making, and/or methods of using, our branded products and branded product candidates. we may not be issued patents based on patent applications already filed or that we file in the future. further, due to other factors that affect patentability, and if patents are issued, they may be insufficient in scope to cover or otherwise protect our branded products. patents are national in scope and therefore the issuance of a patent in one country does not ensure the issuance of a patent in any other country. furthermore, the patent position of companies in the pharmaceutical industry generally involves complex legal and factual questions and has been and remains the subject of significant litigation. legal standards relating to scope and validity of patent claims are evolving and may differ in various 39 table of contents countries. any patents we have obtained, or obtain in the future, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. moreover, the u.s. patent and trademark office or any other governmental agency may commence opposition or interference proceedings involving, or consider other challenges to, our patents or patent applications. in addition, branded products often have market viability based upon the goodwill of the product name, which typically benefits from trademark protection. our branded products may therefore also be subject to risks related to the loss of trademark or patent protection or to competition from generic or other branded products. challenges can come from other businesses or governments, and governments could require compulsory licensing of this intellectual property. any challenge to, or invalidation or circumvention of, our intellectual property (including patents or patent applications and trademark protection) would be costly, would require significant time and attention of our management, and could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. both our generics and specialty businesses develop, formulate, manufacture, or in-license and market products that are subject to economic risks relating to intellectual property rights, competition, and market unpredictability. our products may be subject to the following risks, among others: limited patent life, or the loss of patent protection; competition from generic or other branded products; reductions in reimbursement rates by government and other third-party payors; importation by consumers; product liability; drug research and development risks; and unpredictability with regard to establishing a market. in addition, developing and commercializing branded products is generally more costly than generic products. if such business expenditures do not ultimately result in the launch of commercially successful brand products, or if any of the risks above were to occur, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we face vigorous competition from other pharmaceutical manufacturers that threatens the commercial acceptance and pricing of our products. the pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. we face competition from many u.s. and non-u.s. manufacturers, some of whom are significantly larger than we are. our competitors may be able to develop products and processes competitive with or superior to our own for many reasons, including but not limited to the possibility that they may have: proprietary processes or delivery systems; larger or more productive research and development and marketing staffs; larger or more efficient production capabilities in a particular therapeutic area; more experience in preclinical testing and human clinical trials; more products; or more experience in developing new drugs and greater financial resources, particularly with regard to manufacturers of branded products. the occurrence of any of the above risks could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. 40 table of contents we also face increasing competition from lower-cost generic products and other branded products. certain of our products are not protected by patent rights or have limited patent life and will soon lose patent protection. loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic substitutes. as a result, sales of many of these products may decline or stop growing over time. various factors may result in the sales of certain of our products, particularly those acquired in the epd transaction, declining faster than has been projected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. in addition, legislative proposals emerge from time to time in various jurisdictions to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs. any such proposal that is enacted into law could increase competition and worsen this negative effect on our sales and, potentially, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or ordinary share price. competitors' products may also be safer, more effective, more effectively marketed or sold, or have lower prices or better performance features than ours. we cannot predict with certainty the timing or impact of competitors' products. in addition, our sales may suffer as a result of changes in consumer demand for our products, including those related to fluctuations in consumer buying patterns tied to seasonality or the introduction of new products by competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. a relatively small group of products may represent a significant portion of our revenues, gross profit, or net earnings from time to time. sales of a limited number of our products from time to time represent a significant portion of our revenues, gross profit, and net earnings. for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, mylan's top ten products in terms of sales, in the aggregate, represented approximately 29% and 33% , respectively, of its consolidated total revenues. if the volume or pricing of our largest selling products declines in the future, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price could be materially adversely affected. a significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales to a limited number of customers. a significant portion of our revenues are derived from sales to a limited number of customers. if we were to experience a significant reduction in or loss of business with one or more such customers, or if one or more such customers were to experience difficulty in paying us on a timely basis, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price could be materially adversely affected. during the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, mylan's consolidated third party net sales to cardinal health, inc. were approximately 12% , 12% and 15% , respectively; mylan's consolidated third party net sales to mckesson corporation were approximately 15% , 19% and 14% , respectively; and mylan's consolidated third party net sales to amerisourcebergen corporation were approximately 16% , 13% and 10% , respectively, of consolidated third party net sales. our business could be negatively affected by the performance of our collaboration partners and suppliers. we have entered into strategic alliances with partners and suppliers to develop, manufacture, market and/or distribute certain products, and/or certain components of our products, in various markets. we commit substantial effort, funds and other resources to these various collaborations. there is a risk that the investments made by us in these collaborative arrangements will not generate financial returns. while we believe our relationships with our partners and suppliers generally are successful, disputes or conflicting priorities and regulatory or legal intervention could be a source of delay or uncertainty as to the expected benefits of the collaboration. a failure or inability of our partners or suppliers to fulfill their collaboration obligations, or the occurrence of any of the risks above, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we may experience declines in the sales volume and prices of our products as the result of the continuing trend toward consolidation of certain customer groups, such as the wholesale drug distribution and retail pharmacy industries, as well as the emergence of large buying groups. a significant amount of our sales are to a relatively small number of drug wholesalers and retail drug chains. these customers represent an essential part of the distribution chain of generic pharmaceutical products. drug wholesalers and retail drug chains have undergone, and are continuing to undergo, significant consolidation. this consolidation may result in these 41 table of contents groups gaining additional purchasing leverage and, consequently, increasing the product pricing pressures facing our business. additionally, the emergence of large buying groups representing independent retail pharmacies and the prevalence and influence of managed care organizations and similar institutions increases the negotiating power of these groups, potentially enabling them to attempt to extract price discounts, rebates, and other restrictive pricing terms on our products. the occurrence of any of the above risks could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we depend to a large extent on third-party suppliers and distributors for raw materials, particularly the chemical compound(s) that constitute the active pharmaceutical ingredients that we use to manufacture our products, as well as certain finished goods, including certain controlled substances. these third-party suppliers and distributors may experience delays in or inability to supply us with raw materials necessary to the development and/or manufacture of our products. we purchase certain api (i.e., the chemical compounds that produce the desired therapeutic effect in our products) and other materials and supplies that we use in our manufacturing operations, as well as certain finished products, from many different foreign and domestic suppliers. in certain cases, we have listed only one supplier in our applications with regulatory agencies, and there is no guarantee that we will always have timely and sufficient access to a critical raw material or finished product supplied by third parties, even when we have more than one supplier. an interruption in the supply of a single-sourced or any other raw material, including the relevant api, or in the supply of finished product, could cause our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price to be materially adversely affected. in addition, our manufacturing and supply capabilities could be adversely impacted by quality deficiencies in the products which our suppliers provide, or at their manufacturing facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we utilize controlled substances in certain of our current products and products in development, and therefore must meet the requirements of the controlled substances act of 1970 and the related regulations administered by the dea in the u.s., as well as similar laws in other countries where we operate. these laws relate to the manufacture, shipment, storage, sale, and use of controlled substances. the dea and other regulatory agencies limit the availability of the controlled substances used in certain of our current products and products in development and, as a result, our procurement quota of these active ingredients may not be sufficient to meet commercial demand or complete clinical trials. we must annually apply to the dea and similar regulatory agencies for procurement quotas in order to obtain these substances. any delay or refusal by the dea or such similar agencies in establishing our procurement quota for controlled substances could delay or stop our clinical trials or product launches, or could cause trade inventory disruptions for those products that have already been launched, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. the supply of api into europe may be negatively affected by recent regulations promulgated by the european union. all api imported into the eu has needed to be certified as complying with the good manufacturing practice standards established by the eu laws and guidance, as stipulated by the international conference for harmonization. these regulations place the certification requirement on the regulatory bodies of the exporting countries. accordingly, the national regulatory authorities of each exporting country must: (i) ensure that all manufacturing plants within their borders that export api into the eu comply with eu manufacturing standards and (ii) for each api exported, present a written document confirming that the exporting plant conforms to eu manufacturing standards. the imposition of this responsibility on the governments of the nations exporting an api may cause delays in delivery or shortages of an api necessary to manufacture our products, as certain governments may not be willing or able to comply with the regulation in a timely fashion, or at all. a shortage in api may prevent us from manufacturing, or cause us to have to cease manufacture of, certain products, or to incur costs and delays to qualify other suppliers to substitute for those api manufacturers unable to export. the occurrence of any of the above risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we have a limited number of manufacturing facilities and certain third party suppliers producing a substantial portion of our products, some of which require a highly exacting and complex manufacturing process. 42 table of contents a substantial portion of our capacity, as well as our current production, is attributable to a limited number of manufacturing facilities and certain third party suppliers. a significant disruption at any one of such facilities within our internal or third party supply chain, even on a short-term basis, whether due to a labor strike, failure to reach acceptable agreement with labor and unions, adverse quality or compliance observation, other regulatory action, infringement of intellectual property rights, act of god, civil or political unrest, export or import restrictions, or other events could impair our ability to produce and ship products to the market on a timely basis and could, among other consequences, subject us to exposure to claims from customers. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. in addition, the manufacture of some of our products is a highly exacting and complex process, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. problems may arise during manufacturing for a variety of reasons, including among others equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials, natural disasters, power outages, labor unrest, and environmental factors. if problems arise during the production of a batch of product, that batch of product may have to be discarded. this could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, damage to customer relations, time and expense spent investigating the cause, and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other batches or products. if problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, recall and product liability costs may also be incurred. if we or one of our suppliers experiences significant manufacturing problems, such problems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. our reporting and payment obligations related to our participation in u.s. federal healthcare programs, including medicare and medicaid, are complex and often involve subjective decisions that could change as a result of new business circumstances, new regulations or agency guidance, or advice of legal counsel. any failure to comply with those obligations could subject us to investigation, penalties, and sanctions. federal laws regarding reporting and payment obligations with respect to a pharmaceutical company's participation in federal healthcare programs, including medicare and medicaid, are complex. because our processes for calculating applicable government prices and the judgments involved in making these calculations involve subjective decisions and complex methodologies, these calculations are subject to risk of errors and differing interpretations. in addition, they are subject to review and challenge by the applicable governmental agencies, and it is possible that such reviews could result in changes that may have material adverse legal, regulatory, or economic consequences. pharmaceutical manufacturers that participate in the medicaid drug rebate program, such as mylan, are required to report certain pricing data to the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services ( cms ), the federal agency that administers the medicare and medicaid programs. this data includes the average manufacturer price ( amp ) for each of the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs. cms calculates a type of u.s. federal ceiling on reimbursement rates to pharmacies for multiple source drugs under the medicaid program, known as the federal upper limit ( ful ). the ppaca includes a provision requiring cms to use the weighted average amp for pharmaceutically and therapeutically equivalent multiple source drugs to calculate fuls, instead of the other pricing data cms previously used. the provision was effective october 1, 2010; however, amp-based fuls have not yet been implemented to set the federal ceiling on reimbursement rates for multiple source drugs. on january 21, 2016, cms issued final regulations to implement the changes to the medicaid drug rebate program under the health reform laws, including amp-based fuls. these regulations generally become effective april 1, 2016. although weighted average amp-based fuls would not reveal mylan's individual amp, publishing a weighted average amp available to customers and the public at large could negatively affect our commercial price negotiations. in addition, a number of state and federal government agencies are conducting investigations of manufacturers' reporting practices with respect to average wholesale prices ( awp ). the government has alleged that reporting of inflated awp has led to excessive payments for prescription drugs, and we may be named as a defendant in actions relating to pharmaceutical pricing issues and whether allegedly improper actions by pharmaceutical manufacturers led to excessive payments by medicare and/or medicaid. any governmental agencies or authorities that have commenced, or may commence, an investigation of us relating to the sales, marketing, pricing, quality, or manufacturing of pharmaceutical products could seek to impose, based on a claim of violation of anti-fraud and false claims laws or otherwise, civil and/or criminal sanctions, including fines, penalties, and possible exclusion from federal healthcare programs, including medicare and medicaid. some of the applicable laws may impose liability even in the absence of specific intent to defraud. furthermore, should there be ambiguity with regard to how to properly calculate and report payments - and even in the absence of any such ambiguity - a governmental authority may take a position contrary to a position we have taken, and may impose or pursue civil and/or criminal sanctions. governmental agencies may also make changes in program interpretations, requirements or conditions of participation, some of which may 43 table of contents have implications for amounts previously estimated or paid. we cannot assure you that our submissions will not be found by cms or the u.s. department of veterans affairs to be incomplete or incorrect. any failure to comply with the above laws and regulations, and any such penalties or sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we may experience reductions in the levels of reimbursement for pharmaceutical products by governmental authorities, hmos, or other third-party payors. in addition, the use of tender systems and other forms of price control could reduce prices for our products or reduce our market opportunities. various governmental authorities (including, among others, the u.k. national health service and the german statutory health insurance scheme) and private health insurers and other organizations, such as hmos in the u.s., provide reimbursements or subsidies to consumers for the cost of certain pharmaceutical products. demand for our products depends in part on the extent to which such reimbursement is available. in the u.s., third-party payors increasingly challenge the pricing of pharmaceutical products. this trend and other trends toward the growth of hmos, managed healthcare, and legislative healthcare reform create significant uncertainties regarding the future levels of reimbursement for pharmaceutical products. further, any reimbursement may be reduced in the future to the point that market demand for our products and/or our profitability declines. such a decline could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. in addition, a number of markets in which we operate have implemented or may implement tender systems or other forms of price controls for generic pharmaceuticals in an effort to lower prices. under such tender systems, manufacturers submit bids which establish prices for generic pharmaceutical products. upon winning the tender, the winning company will receive a preferential reimbursement for a period of time. the tender system often results in companies underbidding one another by proposing low pricing in order to win the tender. certain other countries may consider the implementation of a tender system or other forms of price controls. even if a tender system is ultimately not implemented, the anticipation of such could result in price reductions. failing to win tenders, or the implementation of similar systems or other forms of price controls in other markets leading to further price declines, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. legislative or regulatory programs that may influence prices of pharmaceutical products could have a material adverse effect on our business. current or future u.s. federal, u.s. state or other countries' laws and regulations may influence the prices of drugs and, therefore, could adversely affect the payment that we receive for our products. for example, programs in existence in certain states in the u.s. seek to broadly set prices, within those states, through the regulation and administration of the sale of prescription drugs. expansion of these programs, in particular state medicare and/or medicaid programs, or changes required in the way in which medicare payment rates are set and/or the way medicaid rebates are calculated, could adversely affect the payment we receive for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. in order to control expenditure on pharmaceuticals, most member states in the eu regulate the pricing of products and, in some cases, limit the range of different forms of pharmaceuticals available for prescription by national health services. these controls can result in considerable price differences between member states. several countries in which we operate have implemented, or plan to or may implement, government mandated price reductions and/or other controls. when such price cuts occur, pharmaceutical companies have generally experienced significant declines in revenues and profitability and uncertainties continue to exist within the market after the price decrease. such price reductions or controls could have an adverse effect on our business, and as uncertainties are resolved or if other countries in which we operate enact similar measures, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. healthcare reform legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business. in recent years, there have been numerous initiatives on the federal and state levels for comprehensive reforms affecting the payment for, the availability of and reimbursement for, healthcare services in the u.s., and it is likely that congress and state legislatures and health agencies will continue to focus on healthcare reform in the future. the ppaca and the health 44 table of contents care and education and reconciliation act of 2010 (h.r. 4872), which amends the ppaca (collectively, the health reform laws ), were signed into law in march 2010. while the health reform laws may increase the number of patients who have insurance coverage for our products, they also include provisions such as the assessment of a pharmaceutical manufacturer fee and an increase in the amount of rebates that manufacturers pay for coverage of their drugs by medicaid programs. we are unable to predict the future course of federal or state healthcare legislation. the health reform laws and further changes in the law or regulatory framework that reduce our revenues or increase our costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. additionally, we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. in the eu and some other international markets, the government provides healthcare at low cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices, patient eligibility and/or reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. these systems of price regulations may lead to inconsistent and lower prices. within the eu and in other countries, the availability of our products in some markets at lower prices undermines our sales in other markets with higher prices. additionally, certain countries set prices by reference to the prices in other countries where our products are marketed. thus, our inability to secure adequate prices in a particular country may also impair our ability to obtain acceptable prices in existing and potential new markets, and may create the opportunity for third party cross border trade. if significant additional reforms are made to the u.s. healthcare system, or to the healthcare systems of other markets in which we operate, those reforms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we are involved in various legal proceedings and certain government inquiries and may experience unfavorable outcomes of such proceedings or inquiries. we are or may be involved in various legal proceedings and certain government inquiries or investigations, including, but not limited to, patent infringement, product liability, antitrust matters, breach of contract, and claims involving medicare and/or medicaid reimbursements, or laws relating to sales, marketing, and pricing practices, some of which are described in our periodic reports, that involve claims for, or the possibility of, fines and penalties involving substantial amounts of money or other relief, including but not limited to civil or criminal fines and penalties and exclusion from participation in various government health-care-related programs. with respect to government antitrust enforcement and private plaintiff litigation of so-called pay for delay patent settlements, large verdicts, settlements or government fines are possible, especially in the u.s. and eu. if any of these legal proceedings or inquiries were to result in an adverse outcome, the impact could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. with respect to product liability, we maintain a combination of self-insurance (including through our wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary) and commercial insurance to protect against and manage a portion of the risks involved in conducting our business. although we carry insurance, we believe that no reasonable amount of insurance can fully protect against all such risks because of the potential liability inherent in the business of producing pharmaceuticals for human consumption. emerging developments in the u.s. legal landscape relative to the liability of generic pharmaceutical manufacturers for certain product liabilities claims could increase our exposure litigation costs and damages. to the extent that a loss occurs, depending on the nature of the loss and the level of insurance coverage maintained, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. in addition, in limited circumstances, entities that we acquired are party to litigation in matters under which we are, or may be, entitled to indemnification by the previous owners. even in the case of indemnification, there are risks inherent in such indemnities and, accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will receive the full benefits of such indemnification, or that we will not experience an adverse result in a matter that is not indemnified, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we have a number of clean energy investments which are subject to various risks and uncertainties. we have invested in clean energy operations capable of producing refined coal that we believe qualify for tax credits under section 45 of the code. our ability to claim tax credits under section 45 of the code depends upon the operations in which we have invested satisfying certain ongoing conditions set forth in section 45 of the code. these include, among others, the emissions reduction, qualifying technology , and placed-in-service requirements of section 45 of the code, as well as the requirement that at least one of the operations' owners qualifies as a producer of refined coal. while we have received some degree of confirmation from the irs relating to our ability to claim these tax credits, the irs could ultimately determine 45 table of contents that the operations have not satisfied, or have not continued to satisfy, the conditions set forth in section 45 of the code. additionally, congress could modify or repeal section 45 of the code and remove the tax credits retroactively. in addition, section 45 of the code contains phase out provisions based upon the market price of coal, such that, if the price of coal rises to specified levels, we could lose some or all of the tax credits we expect to receive from these investments. finally, when the price of natural gas or oil declines relative to that of coal, some utilities may choose to burn natural gas or oil instead of coal. market demand for coal may also decline as a result of an economic slowdown and a corresponding decline in the use of electricity. if utilities burn less coal, eliminate coal in the production of electricity or are otherwise unable to operate for an extended period of time, the availability of the tax credits would also be reduced. the occurrence of any of the above risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we have significant indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial position and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under such indebtedness. any refinancing of this debt could be at significantly higher interest rates. our substantial indebtedness could lead to adverse consequences. our level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including but not limited to: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, challenges and opportunities, and changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and debt service requirements and other financing needs; increasing our vulnerability to increases in interest rates in general because a substantial portion of our indebtedness bears interest at floating rates; and placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt. our ability to service our indebtedness will depend on our future operating performance and financial results, which will be subject, in part, to factors beyond our control, including interest rates and general economic, financial and business conditions. if we do not have sufficient cash flow to service our indebtedness, we may need to refinance all or part of our existing indebtedness, borrow more money or sell securities or assets, some or all of which may not be available to us at acceptable terms or at all. in addition, we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. although the terms of our senior credit agreement and our bond indentures allow us to incur additional debt, this is subject to certain limitations which may preclude us from incurring the amount of indebtedness we otherwise desire. in addition, if we incur additional debt, the risks described above could intensify. if global credit markets return to their recent levels of contraction, future debt financing may not be available to us when required or may not be available on acceptable terms, and as a result we may be unable to grow our business, take advantage of business opportunities, respond to competitive pressures or satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness. any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. our credit facilities, senior unsecured notes, accounts receivable securitization facility, other outstanding indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we incur in the future impose, or may impose, significant operating and financial restrictions on us. these restrictions limit our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, make investments, pay certain dividends, prepay other indebtedness, sell assets, incur certain liens, enter into agreements with our affiliates or restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends, merge or consolidate. in addition, our revolving credit agreement, 2014 term loan, 2015 term loan, and accounts receivable securitization facility require us to maintain specified financial ratios. a breach of any of these covenants or our inability to maintain the required financial ratios could result in a default under the related indebtedness. if a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare our indebtedness, together with accrued interest and 46 table of contents other fees, to be immediately due and payable. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we enter into various agreements in the normal course of business which periodically incorporate provisions whereby we indemnify the other party to the agreement. in the normal course of business, we periodically enter into commercial, employment, legal settlement, and other agreements which incorporate indemnification provisions. in some but not all cases, we maintain insurance coverage which we believe will effectively mitigate our obligations under certain of these indemnification provisions. however, should our obligation under an indemnification provision exceed any applicable coverage or should coverage be denied, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price could be materially adversely affected. there are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with u.s. gaap. any future changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions used or necessary revisions to prior estimates, judgments or assumptions or changes in accounting standards could lead to a restatement or revision to previously issued financial statements. the consolidated and condensed consolidated financial statements included in the periodic reports we file with the sec are prepared in accordance with u.s. gaap. the preparation of financial statements in accordance with u.s. gaap involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to change in the future and any necessary revisions to prior estimates, judgments or assumptions could lead to a restatement. furthermore, although we have recorded reserves for litigation related contingencies based on estimates of probable future costs, such litigation related contingencies could result in substantial further costs. also, any new or revised accounting standards may require adjustments to previously issued financial statements. any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we must maintain adequate internal controls and be able on an annual basis, to provide an assertion as to the effectiveness of such controls. effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports. we spend a substantial amount of management and other employee time and resources to comply with laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure. in the u.s., such regulations include the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, sec regulations and the nasdaq listing standards. in particular, section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 ( section 404 ) requires management's annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and attestation as to the effectiveness of these controls by our independent registered public accounting firm. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. additionally, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. in addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. our future success is highly dependent on our continued ability to attract and retain key personnel. loss of key personnel could lead to loss of customers, business disruption, and a decline in revenues, adversely affect the progress of pipeline products, or otherwise adversely affect our operations. it is important that we attract and retain qualified personnel in order to develop and commercialize new products, manage our business, and compete effectively. competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical industry is very intense. if we fail to attract and retain key scientific, technical, commercial, or management personnel, our business could be affected adversely. additionally, while we have employment agreements with certain key employees in place, their employment for the duration of the agreement is not guaranteed. current and prospective employees might also experience uncertainty about their future roles with us following the consummation of the epd transaction, which might adversely affect our ability to 47 table of contents retain key managers and other employees. if we are unsuccessful in retaining our key employees or enforcing certain post-employment contractual provisions such as confidentiality or non-competition, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. our actual financial position and results of operations may differ materially from the unaudited pro forma financial information included in this annual report. the unaudited pro forma financial information contained in the form 10-k may not be an indication of what our financial position or results of operations would have been had the epd transaction been completed on the date indicated nor are they indicative of the future operating results of mylan n.v. the unaudited pro forma financial information has been derived from the historical consolidated financial statements of mylan n.v., mylan inc., and the combined financial statements of the epd business and reflect certain adjustments related to past operating performance and acquisition accounting adjustments, such as increased amortization expense based on the fair value of assets acquired, the impact of transaction costs, and the related income tax effects. the information upon which these adjustments have been made is subjective, and these types of adjustments are difficult to make with complete accuracy. accordingly, the actual financial position and results of our operations following the epd transaction may not be consistent with, or evident from, this unaudited pro forma financial information and other factors may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price, including, among others, those described herein. the epd business has a limited history in the structure in which it currently operates. prior to the consummation of the epd transaction, the epd business had been operated by abbott as part of its broader corporate organization. as a result of the epd business's separation from abbott, the epd business may encounter operational or financial difficulties that would not have occurred if the epd business continued operating in its former structure. for example, the epd business's working capital and capital for general corporate purposes have historically been provided as part of the corporate-wide cash management policies of abbott. we may need to obtain additional financing for the epd business from lenders, public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, strategic relationships, or other arrangements. similarly, the epd business's combined financial statements reflect allocations of expenses from abbott for corporate functions and may differ from the expenses the epd business would have incurred had the epd business been operated by us, and the epd business will need to make significant investments to replicate or outsource from other providers certain facilities, systems, infrastructure, and personnel to which it will no longer have access after closing and, for certain services to be provided pursuant to a transition services agreement entered into in connection with the consummation of the epd transaction (the transition services agreement ), the expiration of the transition services agreement. in addition, as a result of the separation of the epd business from abbott, other significant changes may occur in the epd business's cost structure, management, financing, and business operations as a result of operating separately from abbott that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. the epd business and abbott are interdependent with respect to certain transition services and manufacturing and supply of certain products and share certain intellectual property. prior to the epd transaction, abbott or one of its affiliates performed various corporate functions for the epd business, such as accounting, information technology, and finance, among others. abbott is required to provide some of these functions to the epd business for a period of time pursuant to the transition services agreement. the epd business may incur temporary interruptions in business operations if it cannot complete the transition effectively from abbott's existing operational systems and the transition services that support these functions as the epd business replaces these systems or integrates them with our systems. the epd business is dependent on abbott providing certain transition services, and we could be negatively impacted if abbott fails to perform under the transition services agreement. in addition, abbott or one of its affiliates is required to manufacture products for the epd business, pursuant to certain agreements providing for, among other things, manufacturing and supply services. disruptions or disagreements related to the third-party manufacturing relationship with abbott could impair our ability to ship products to the market on a timely basis and could, among other consequences, subject us to exposure to claims from customers. mylan has certain obligations to provide transition services to abbott and to manufacture for and supply products to abbott. accordingly, we may need to allocate resources to provide transition services or manufacturing capacity to abbott in lieu of supplying products for the epd business, which could have a negative impact on us. 48 table of contents in addition, abbott or one of its affiliates owns registrations, including marketing authorizations, for certain products of the epd business in certain jurisdictions, and disagreements could arise regarding abbott's or our use of such registrations in the territory allocated to each party. the risks related to the foregoing relationships between us and abbott could be exacerbated if abbott fails to perform under the agreements between mylan and abbott or the epd business fails to have necessary systems and services in place when the obligations under the agreements between mylan and abbott expire, and such risks could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. our business relationships, including customer relationships, may be subject to disruption due to the epd transaction. parties with which we currently do business or may do business in the future, including customers and suppliers, may experience ongoing uncertainty associated with the epd transaction, including with respect to current or future business relationships with us. as a result, our business relationships may be subject to disruptions if customers, suppliers, and others attempt to negotiate changes in existing business relationships or consider entering into business relationships with parties other than us. for example, certain customers and collaborators have contractual consent rights or termination rights that may have been triggered by a change of control or assignment of the rights and obligations of contracts that were transferred in the epd transaction. in addition, our contract manufacturing business could be impaired if existing or potential customers determine not to continue or initiate contract manufacturing relationships with us. these disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we are in the process of enhancing and further developing our global erp systems and associated business applications, which could result in business interruptions if we encounter difficulties. we are enhancing and further developing our global erp and other business critical information technology ( it ) infrastructure systems and associated applications to provide more operating efficiencies and effective management of our business and financial operations. such changes to erp systems and related software, and other it infrastructure carry risks such as cost overruns, project delays and business interruptions and delays. if we experience a material business interruption as a result of our erp enhancements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we are increasingly dependent on information technology and our systems and infrastructure face certain risks, including cybersecurity and data leakage risks. significant disruptions to our information technology systems or breaches of information security could adversely affect our business. we are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology systems and infrastructure to operate our business. in the ordinary course of business, we collect, store and transmit large amounts of confidential information (including trade secrets or other intellectual property, proprietary business information and personal information), and it is critical that we do so in a secure manner to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information. we also have outsourced significant elements of our operations to third parties, some of which are outside the u.s., including significant elements of our information technology infrastructure, and as a result we are managing many independent vendor relationships with third parties who may or could have access to our confidential information. the size and complexity of our information technology systems, and those of our third party vendors with whom we contract, make such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions. the size and complexity of our and our vendors' systems and the large amounts of confidential information that is present on them also makes them potentially vulnerable to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees, partners or vendors, or from attacks by malicious third parties. we and our vendors could be susceptible to third party attacks on our information technology systems, which attacks are of ever increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise, including state and quasi-state actors, criminal groups, hackers and others. maintaining the security, confidentiality and integrity of this confidential information (including trade secrets or other intellectual property, proprietary, business information and personal information) is important to our competitive business position. however, such information can be difficult to protect. while we have taken steps to protect such information and invested heavily in information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent service interruptions or security breaches in our systems or the unauthorized or inadvertent wrongful use or disclosure of confidential information that could adversely affect our business operations or result in the loss, misappropriation, and/or unauthorized access, use or disclosure of, or the prevention of access to, confidential information. a breach of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure, unapproved dissemination, misappropriation or misuse of trade secrets, proprietary information, or other confidential information, whether as a result of theft, hacking, fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, 49 table of contents or for any other cause, could enable others to produce competing products, use our proprietary technology or information, and/or adversely affect our business position. further, any such interruption, security breach, or loss, misappropriation, and/or unauthorized access, use or disclosure of confidential information, including personal information regarding our patients and employees, could result in financial, legal, business, and reputational harm to us and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. the expansion of social media platforms present new risks and challenges. the inappropriate use of certain social media vehicles could cause brand damage or information leakage or could lead to legal implications from the improper collection and/or dissemination of personally identifiable information or the improper dissemination of material non-public information. in addition, negative posts or comments about us on any social networking web site could seriously damage our reputation. further, the disclosure of non-public company sensitive information through external media channels could lead to information loss as there might not be structured processes in place to secure and protect information. if our non-public sensitive information is disclosed or if our reputation is seriously damaged through social media, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. risks related to the offer the offer may not be completed on favorable terms or at all, and if completed, the offer may not achieve the intended benefits or may disrupt our plans and operations. our obligation to complete the public offer to the shareholders of meda ab (publ.) ( meda ) to acquire all of the outstanding shares of meda (the offer ) is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of a number of customary closing conditions, including (i) holders of at least 90% of the outstanding meda shares tendering their shares into the offer and (ii) receipt of all necessary regulatory, governmental or similar clearances, approvals and decisions, including from competition authorities. since the fulfillment of these conditions is beyond our control, there are no guarantees as to when the offer will be completed, or that it will be completed at all. uncertainty in the financial markets regarding if or when the offer will be completed may negatively affect the price of our ordinary shares. in addition, to grant such clearances, approvals, and decisions, competition authorities may impose requirements, limitations, or costs on the conduct of our businesses or require divestitures after completion of the offer that could delay the completion of the offer or may reduce the anticipated benefits of the offer. if the proposed acquisition of meda is not completed for any reason, we would be subject to a number of risks, including, among others: incurring substantial expenses and costs, including legal, accounting, financing, and advisory fees, that we would be unable to recover; and negative reactions from the financial markets or from our customers, vendors, and employees. if the offer is completed, we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate the business of meda with the business of mylan or otherwise realize the expected benefits of the offer. mylan's ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the offer will depend, to a large extent, on mylan's ability to integrate meda with the business of mylan and realize the expected benefits of the combined business. the combination of two independent businesses is a complex, costly, and time-consuming process. the integration will require significant time and focus from management following the offer and may divert attention from the day-to-day operations of the combined business. integration challenges, many of which are outside of mylan's control, may prevent the expected synergies and operating efficiencies of the offer from being fully realized, which could result in higher than anticipated costs for the combined company. additionally, consummation of the offer could disrupt current plans and operations and delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. failing to achieve the expected synergies and operating efficiencies of the offer or any delay in the achievement of our strategic objectives could have a material adverse effect on mylan's business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. even if the operations of mylan and meda are integrated successfully, the full anticipated benefits of the offer, including the synergies, operating efficiencies, or sales or growth opportunities may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame or at all. mylan has entered into a new bridge loan credit facility under which it may obtain loans in an aggregate amount up to $10.05 billion to finance the cash portion of the consideration for the offer and/or repay certain existing indebtedness. mylan's business may be negatively impacted if it is unable to effectively manage its expanded operations and increased level of indebtedness following the offer. mylan's increased indebtedness following the consummation of the offer could also have adverse consequences, including but not limited to (i) increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry 50 table of contents conditions and (ii) limiting our flexibility in planning for or reacting to challenges, opportunities, and changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate. all of these factors could cause dilution to the earnings per share of the combined business, decrease or delay any potential accretive effect of the offer, and/or have a material adverse effect on mylan's business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 85 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange risk a significant portion of our revenues and earnings are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we seek to manage this foreign exchange risk in part through operational means, including managing same currency revenues in relation to same currency costs and same currency assets in relation to same currency liabilities. foreign exchange risk is also managed through the use of foreign currency forward-exchange contracts. these contracts are used to offset the potential earnings effects from mostly intercompany foreign currency assets and liabilities that arise from operations and from intercompany loans. mylan 's primary areas of foreign exchange risk relative to the u.s. dollar are the euro, indian rupee, japanese yen, australian dollar, canadian dollar, pound sterling and brazilian real . our financial instrument holdings at year end were analyzed to determine their sensitivity to foreign exchange rate changes. the fair values of these instruments were determined as follows: foreign currency forward-exchange contracts net present values foreign currency denominated receivables, payables, debt and loans changes in exchange rates in this sensitivity analysis, we assumed that the change in one currency's rate relative to the u.s. dollar would not have an effect on other currencies' rates relative to the u.s. dollar. all other factors were held constant. if there were an adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates of 10% , the expected net effect on net income related to mylan 's foreign currency denominated financial instruments would not be material . interest rate and long-term debt risk mylan 's exposure to interest rate risk arises primarily from our u.s. dollar borrowings and investments. we invest primarily on a variable-rate basis and we borrow on both a fixed and variable basis. in order to maintain a certain ratio of fixed to variable rate debt, from time to time, depending on market conditions, mylan will use derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps to fix interest rates on variable-rate borrowings or to convert fixed-rate borrowings to variable interest rates. as of december 31, 2015 , mylan 's long-term fixed rate borrowings consist principally of $4.90 billion in senior notes. generally, the fair value of fixed interest rate debt will decrease as interest rates rise and increase as interest rates fall. as of december 31, 2015 , the fair value of our senior notes was approximately $4.80 billion . a 100 basis point change in interest rates on mylan 's variable rate debt, net of interest rate swaps, would result in a change in interest expense of approximately $31.5 million per year. 85 table of contentsrisk factors 25 risk factors we operate in a complex and rapidly changing environment that involves risks, many of which are beyond our control. any of the following risks, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or share price. these risks should be read in conjunction with the other information in this annual report on form 10-k. abbott's subsidiaries that hold ordinary shares are collectively a significant beneficial shareholder of ours and the presence of a significant beneficial shareholder may affect the ability of our other shareholders to exercise influence over us, especially in light of certain voting obligations under our shareholder agreement with abbott and its subsidiaries. abbott's subsidiaries currently own approximately 13.0% of our outstanding ordinary shares. the shares owned by abbott's subsidiaries are subject to the terms of a shareholder agreement, which requires the abbott subsidiaries to vote in favor of the director nominees recommended by our board of directors and in accordance with the recommendation of our board of directors on all other matters, subject to certain exceptions for extraordinary transactions. this voting agreement is in force with respect to ordinary shares owned by abbott's subsidiaries so long as they collectively beneficially own at least five percent of our issued and outstanding ordinary shares. abbott's subsidiaries that hold ordinary shares are collectively a significant beneficial shareholder of ours. having a significant beneficial shareholder that is required in many instances to vote with the recommendation of our board of directors may make it more difficult for our other shareholders to exercise influence over most matters submitted to shareholders for approval, including the election of directors, issuances of securities for equity compensation plans, amendments to the articles, and shareholder proposals submitted pursuant to rule 14a-8 of the exchange act. additionally, abbott subsidiaries are obligated, pursuant to the shareholder agreement, not to tender any ordinary shares in any tender or exchange offer that our board of directors recommends that the shareholders reject and, if our board of directors 25 table of contents has recommended against a transaction, abbott subsidiaries are required to vote against such transaction, which may have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discouraging a third party from seeking to acquire, a majority of our outstanding ordinary shares in a public takeover offer, or control of our board of directors through a proxy solicitation. provisions in our governance arrangements or that are otherwise available under dutch law could discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of us and may affect the market price of our ordinary shares. some provisions of our governance arrangements that are available under dutch law, such as our grant to a dutch foundation (stichting) of a call option to acquire preferred shares to safeguard the interests of the company, its businesses and its stakeholders against threats to our strategy, mission, independence, continuity and/or identity, may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of us, even if such a change in control is sought by our shareholders. we may be forced to delist, or otherwise choose to delist, from the tel aviv stock exchange in the future and this could have a negative impact on our ordinary share price and on the liquidity of our ordinary shares. our ordinary shares are listed on both nasdaq and the tel aviv stock exchange (the tase ). we have undertaken with the tase that for as long as our ordinary shares are listed for trading on the tase, if new mylan preferred shares are issued, in response to the dutch foundation (stichting) described above exercising its call option to acquire preferred shares or otherwise, we will take all necessary actions, as soon as practicable and no later than three israeli business days following the issuance of such preferred shares, to notify the tase that we are delisting our ordinary shares from the tase (with such delisting to take effect 90 days later). accordingly, there can be no guarantee as to how long our ordinary shares will continue to be listed on the tase. if we delist from the tase, that could have a negative impact on our ordinary share price and on the liquidity of our ordinary shares for our shareholders, particularly in israel. we do not anticipate paying dividends for the foreseeable future, and our shareholders must rely on increases in the trading price of the ordinary shares to obtain a return on their investment. mylan n.v. does not anticipate paying dividends in the immediate future. we anticipate that we will retain all earnings, if any, to support our operations and to opportunistically pursue additional transactions to deliver additional shareholder value. any future determination as to the payment of dividends will, subject to dutch law requirements, be at the sole discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our financial position, results of operations, capital requirements, and other factors our board of directors deems relevant at that time. holders of mylan n.v.'s ordinary shares must rely on increases in the trading price of their shares to obtain a return on their investment in the foreseeable future. the market price of the ordinary shares may be volatile, and the value of your investment could materially decline. investors who hold mylan n.v.'s ordinary shares may not be able to sell their shares at or above the price at which they purchased such shares. the share price of mylan n.v.'s ordinary shares fluctuates materially from time to time, and we cannot predict the price of the ordinary shares at any given time. the risk factors described herein could cause the price of the ordinary shares to fluctuate materially. in addition, the stock market in general, including the market for generic and specialty pharmaceutical companies, has experienced price and volume fluctuations. these broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of the ordinary shares, regardless of our operating performance. in addition, the price of the ordinary shares may be affected by the valuations and recommendations of the analysts who cover us, and if our results do not meet the analysts' forecasts and expectations, the price of the ordinary shares could decline as a result of analysts lowering their valuations and recommendations or otherwise. in the past, following periods of volatility in the market and/or in the price of a company's stock, securities class-action litigation has been instituted against us and other companies. such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management's attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we or our shareholders also may offer or sell our ordinary shares or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for ordinary shares. an increase in the number of the ordinary shares issued and outstanding and the possibility of sales of ordinary shares or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for ordinary shares may depress the future trading price of the ordinary shares. in addition, if additional offerings occur, the voting power of our then existing shareholders may be diluted. our transactions, including the meda transaction and the epd transaction, may not achieve all intended benefits or may disrupt our plans and operations. 26 table of contents there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully complete the integration of acquired businesses or assets, including meda and the epd business, with mylan, or otherwise fully realize the expected benefits of such transactions. our ability to fully realize the anticipated benefits of such transactions will depend, to a large extent, on our ability to integrate acquired businesses or assets, including meda or the epd business, with mylan and realize the benefits of the combined businesses in each instance. the combination of independent businesses is a complex, costly, and time-consuming process. our business may be negatively impacted if we are unable to effectively manage the expanded operations of our acquired businesses or assets. the integrations of meda and of the epd business, in particular, are ongoing and continue to require significant time and focus from management and may divert attention from the day-to-day operations of our business. additionally, the integration of the businesses could disrupt our plans and operations, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. the expected synergies and operating efficiencies of any transaction, including the meda transaction and the epd transaction, may not be fully realized, which could result in increased costs and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. in addition, the overall integration of a business or asset may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer relationships, and diversion of management's attention, among other potential adverse consequences. the difficulties of combining the operations of a business or asset include, among others: the diversion of management's attention to integration matters, including restructuring activities; difficulties in achieving anticipated synergies, operating efficiencies, business opportunities, and growth prospects from combining an acquired business or asset with mylan; difficulties in the integration of operations and information technology ( it ) applications, including enterprise resource planning ( erp ) systems; difficulties in the integration of employees; difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company; challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; challenges in reducing reliance of transition services prior to the expiry of any period in which such services are provided by a transaction counterparty; operational or financial difficulties that would not have occurred if acquired companies, businesses, or assets continued operating in their former structures; challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel; and with respect to the epd business, the complexities of managing the ongoing relationship with abbott, and certain of its business partners, which includes agreements providing for transition and other services, development and manufacturing relationships, and license arrangements. many of these factors are outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues, and diversion of management's time and energy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. in addition, the overall integration of a business or asset may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer relationships, and diversion of management's attention, among other potential adverse consequences. furthermore, even if a business or asset is integrated successfully, we may not realize the full benefits of such transactions, including the synergies, operating efficiencies, or sales or growth opportunities that are expected. these benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame or at all. all of these factors could cause dilution to our earnings per share, decrease or delay the expected accretive effect of such transactions, and/or negatively impact the price of our ordinary shares. we expect to be treated as a non-u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. any changes to the tax laws or changes in other laws (including under applicable income tax treaties), regulations, rules, or interpretations thereof applicable to inverted companies and their affiliates, whether enacted before or after the epd transaction, may materially adversely affect us. 27 table of contents under current u.s. law, we believe that we should not be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes as a result of the epd transaction. changes to section 7874 of the internal revenue code (the code ) or, to the u.s. treasury regulations promulgated thereunder, or interpretations thereof, or to other relevant tax laws (including applicable income tax treaties), could affect our status as a non-u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes and the tax consequences to us and our affiliates. any such changes could have prospective or retroactive application, and may apply even if enacted or promulgated now that the epd transaction has closed. if we were to be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, or if the relevant tax laws (including applicable income tax treaties) change, we would likely be subject to significantly greater u.s. tax liability than currently contemplated as a non-u.s. corporation or if the relevant tax laws (including applicable income tax treaties) had not changed. on august 5, 2014, the u.s. treasury department announced that it is reviewing a broad range of authorities for possible administrative actions that could limit the ability of a u.s. corporation to complete a transaction in which it becomes a subsidiary of a non-u.s. corporation (commonly known as an inversion transaction ) or reduce certain tax benefits after an inversion transaction takes place. on september 22, 2014 and november 19, 2015, the u.s. treasury department issued notices (the notices ) announcing its intention to promulgate certain regulations that will apply to inversion transactions completed on or after september 22, 2014. those regulations were promulgated as temporary u.s. treasury regulations on april 4, 2016, some of which were adopted as final u.s. treasury regulations on january 18, 2017, and they do not affect our belief that we expect to be treated as a non-u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. in the notices, the u.s. treasury department also announced that it expected to issue additional guidance to further limit and reduce the benefits of certain inversion transactions. in particular, it stated that it was considering regulations that may limit the ability of certain foreign-owned u.s. corporations to deduct certain interest payments (so-called earnings stripping ). on april 4, 2016, the u.s. treasury department issued such regulations in the form of proposed u.s. treasury regulations. on october 13, 2016, the u.s. treasury department issued final and temporary u.s. treasury regulations. the rules described in the final and temporary u.s. treasury regulations will generally apply to certain intercompany arrangements entered into on or after april 5, 2016, however, certain obligations will only apply to certain intercompany arrangements entered into on or after january 1, 2018. additionally, there have been recent legislative proposals intended to limit or discourage inversion transactions and on may 20, 2015, the u.s. treasury department announced its intention to revise certain provisions of the model income tax treaties, which, if ultimately adopted by the u.s. and relevant jurisdictions, could reduce potential tax benefits for us and our affiliates by imposing u.s. withholding taxes on particular payments from our u.s. affiliates to related and unrelated foreign persons. any such future regulatory or legislative actions regarding inversion transactions or any other changes in relevant tax laws (including under applicable income tax treaties), if taken, could apply to us, could disadvantage us as compared to other corporations, including non-u.s. corporations that have completed inversion transactions prior to september 22, 2014, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. the irs may not agree that we should be treated as a non-u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. the u.s. internal revenue service (the irs ) may not agree that we should be treated as a non-u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. although we are not incorporated in the u.s. and expect to be treated as a non-u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the irs may assert that we should be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. if we were to be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we would likely be subject to significantly greater u.s. tax liability than currently contemplated as a non-u.s. corporation. if the intercompany terms of cross border arrangements that we have among our subsidiaries are determined to be inappropriate or ineffective, our tax liability may increase. we have potential tax exposures resulting from the varying application of statutes, regulations, and interpretations which include exposures on intercompany terms of cross-border arrangements among our subsidiaries (including intercompany loans, sales, and services agreements) in relation to various aspects of our business, including manufacturing, marketing, sales, and delivery functions. although we believe our cross-border arrangements among our subsidiaries are based upon internationally accepted standards and applicable law, tax authorities in various jurisdictions may disagree with and subsequently challenge the amount of profits taxed in their country, which may result in increased tax liability, including accrued interest and penalties, which would cause our tax expense to increase and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. 28 table of contents we may not be able to maintain competitive financial flexibility and our corporate tax rate. we believe that our structure and operations will give us the ability to achieve competitive financial flexibility and a competitive worldwide effective corporate tax rate. the material assumptions underlying our expected tax rates include the fact that we expect certain of our businesses will be operated outside of the u.s. and, as such, will be subject to a lower tax rate than operations in the u.s., which will result in a lower blended worldwide tax rate we were previously able to achieve. we must also make assumptions regarding the effect of certain internal reorganization transactions, including various intercompany transactions. we cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate will be, however, because of, among other reasons, uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate, potential changes of laws and interpretations thereof, and the potential for tax audits or challenges. our actual effective tax rate may vary from our expectation and that variance may be material. additionally, the tax laws of the united kingdom, the netherlands and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our effective tax rate. such a material change could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities and changes in income tax laws and tax rulings may have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate and income tax expense. we are subject to income taxes in many jurisdictions. significant analysis and judgment are required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. the final determination of any tax audits or related litigation could be materially different from our income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in our overall profitability, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the results of audits and the examination of previously filed tax returns by taxing authorities, and continuing assessments of our tax exposures could impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. finally, potential changes to income tax laws in the u.s. include measures which would defer the deduction of interest expense related to deferred income; determine the foreign tax credit on a pooling basis; tax currently excess returns associated with transfers of intangibles offshore; and limit earnings stripping by expatriated entities. in addition, proposals have been made to encourage manufacturing in the u.s., including reduced rates of tax and increased deductions related to manufacturing. we cannot determine whether these proposals will be modified or enacted, whether other proposals unknown at this time will be made, or the extent to which the corporate tax rate might be reduced and lessen the adverse impact of some of these proposals. if enacted, and depending on its precise terms, such legislation could materially increase our overall effective income tax rate and income tax expense and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we may become taxable in a jurisdiction other than the united kingdom and this may increase the aggregate tax burden on us. based on our current management structure and current tax laws of the united states, the united kingdom, and the netherlands, as well as applicable income tax treaties, and current interpretations thereof, the united kingdom and the netherlands competent authorities have determined that we are tax resident solely in the united kingdom for the purposes of the netherlands-united kingdom tax treaty. we have received a binding ruling from the competent authorities in the united kingdom and in the netherlands confirming this treatment. we will therefore be tax resident solely in the united kingdom so long as the facts and circumstances set forth in the relevant application letters sent to those authorities remain accurate. even though we received a binding ruling, the applicable tax laws or interpretations thereof may change, or the assumptions on which such rulings were based may differ from the facts. as a consequence, we may become a tax resident of a jurisdiction other than the united kingdom. as a consequence, our overall effective income tax rate and income tax expense could materially increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we incur direct and indirect costs as a result of our corporate structure. 29 table of contents we have incurred costs in connection with, and will incur further costs as a result of, being a dutch company that is a tax resident of the united kingdom. certain costs are not readily ascertainable and are difficult to predict, quantify, and determine. these costs include professional fees associated with complying with dutch corporate law and financial reporting requirements, professional fees associated with complying with the tax laws of the united kingdom, and costs and expenses incurred in connection with holding a majority of the meetings of our board of directors and certain executive management meetings in the united kingdom, as well as any additional costs we may incur going forward as a result of our corporate structure. we have grown at a very rapid pace and may opportunistically pursue additional acquisition opportunities that make financial and strategic sense for us. our inability to effectively manage or support this growth may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we have grown very rapidly over the past several years as a result of increasing sales and several acquisitions and other transactions, and may opportunistically pursue additional acquisition opportunities that make financial and strategic sense for us. we evaluate various strategic transactions and business arrangements, including acquisitions, asset purchases, partnerships, joint ventures, restructurings, divestitures and investments, on an ongoing basis. these transactions and arrangements may be material both from a strategic and financial perspective. we are currently in the process of evaluating certain potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions, and we may opportunistically pursue one or more of these transactions at any time. some of these opportunities would be material if pursued and consummated. our growth has, and will continue to, put significant demands on our processes, systems, and employees. we have made and expect to make further investments in additional personnel, systems, and internal control processes to help manage our growth. attracting, retaining and motivating key employees in various departments and locations to support our growth are critical to our business, and competition for these people can be significant. if we are unable to hire and/or retain qualified employees and/or if we do not effectively invest in systems and processes to manage and support our rapid growth and the challenges and difficulties associated with managing a larger, more complex business, and/or if we cannot effectively manage and integrate our increasingly diverse and global platform, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we may be adversely affected by increased scrutiny from third parties, including governments, or negative publicity with respect to matters relating to our products and pricing practices, and other matters related to the company, and we have and may continue to experience pricing pressure on the price of certain of our products due to social or political pressure to lower the cost of drugs, which could reduce our revenue and future profitability. there has been increased press coverage and increased scrutiny from third parties, including regulators, legislative bodies and enforcement agencies, with respect to matters relating to the company's business and pricing practices, and other matters related to the company. this increased press coverage, public scrutiny and protests by some consumers have included assertions of wrongdoing by the company which, regardless of the factual or legal basis for such assertions, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, investigations, and calls for investigations, by governmental agencies at both the federal and state level and have resulted in, and may continue to result in, claims brought against the company by governmental agencies or by private parties or by regulators taking other measures that could have a negative effect on the company's business. it is not possible at this time to predict the ultimate outcome of any such investigations or claims or what other investigations or lawsuits or regulatory responses may result from such assertions, or their impact on the company's business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. any such investigation or claim could also result in reputational harm and reduced market acceptance and demand for our products, could harm our ability to market our products in the future, could cause us to incur significant expense, could cause our senior management to be distracted from execution of our business strategy, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. there has also recently been intense publicity regarding the pricing of pharmaceuticals more generally, including publicity and pressure resulting from prices charged by competitors and peer companies for new products as well as price increases by competitors and peer companies on older products that the public has deemed excessive. we have experienced and may continue to experience downward pricing pressure on the price of certain of our products due to social or political pressure to lower the cost of drugs, which could reduce our revenue and future profitability. 30 table of contents accompanying the press and media coverage of pharmaceutical pricing practices and public complaints about the same, there has been increasing u.s. federal and state legislative and enforcement interest with respect to drug pricing. in particular, u.s. federal prosecutors recently issued subpoenas to pharmaceutical companies, including mylan, seeking information about their drug pricing practices, among other issues, and members of the congress have sought information from certain pharmaceutical companies, including mylan, relating to drug-price increases. additionally, there have been several recent congressional inquiries and proposed bills designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to drug pricing, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for drugs. for example, in late 2015 the u.s. house of representatives formed an affordable drug pricing task force to advance legislation intended to control pharmaceutical drug costs and investigate pharmaceutical drug pricing. since then, both the u.s. house of representatives and the u.s. senate have conducted numerous hearings with respect to pharmaceutical drug pricing practices, including in connection with the investigation of specific price increases by several pharmaceutical companies such as mylan. in addition to the effects of any investigations or claims brought against the company described above, our revenue and future profitability could also be negatively affected if any such inquiries, of us or of other pharmaceutical companies or the industry more generally, were to result in legislative or regulatory proposals that limit our ability to increase the prices of our products. any of the events or developments described above could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations, as well as on our reputation. current and changing economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business, partners and suppliers, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. the global economy continues to experience significant volatility, and the economic environment may continue to be, or become, less favorable than that of past years. among other matters, the continued risk of a default on sovereign debt by one or more european countries, related financial restructuring efforts in europe, and/or evolving deficit and spending reduction programs instituted by the u.s. and other governments could negatively impact the global economy and/or the pharmaceutical industry. this has led, and/or could lead, to reduced consumer and customer spending and/or reduced or eliminated governmental or third party payor coverage or reimbursement in the foreseeable future, and this may include reduced spending on healthcare, including but not limited to pharmaceutical products. while generic drugs present an alternative to higher-priced branded products, our sales could be negatively impacted if patients forego obtaining healthcare, patients and customers reduce spending or purchases, and/or if governments and/or third-party payors reduce or eliminate coverage or reimbursement amounts for pharmaceuticals and/or impose price or other controls adversely impacting the price or availability of pharmaceuticals. in addition, reduced consumer and customer spending, and/or reduced government and/or third-party payor coverage or reimbursement, and/or new government controls, may drive us and our competitors to decrease prices and/or may reduce the ability of customers to pay and/or may result in reduced demand for our products. the occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our industry, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. our business, financial condition, and results of operations are subject to risks arising from the international scope of our operations. our operations extend to numerous countries outside the u.s. and are subject to the risks inherent in conducting business globally and under the laws, regulations, and customs of various jurisdictions. these risks include, but are not limited to: compliance with a variety of national and local laws of countries in which we do business, including, but not limited to, anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, data privacy and security and restrictions on the import and export of certain intermediates, drugs, and technologies, as well as compliance with multiple regulatory regimes; less established legal and regulatory regimes in certain jurisdictions; compliance with a variety of u.s. laws including, but not limited to, the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012; and rules relating to the use of certain conflict minerals under section 1502 of the dodd-frank wall street reform and the consumer protection act; changes in laws, regulations, and practices affecting the pharmaceutical industry and the healthcare system, including but not limited to imports, exports, manufacturing, quality, cost, pricing, reimbursement, approval, inspection, and delivery of healthcare; 31 table of contents fluctuations in exchange rates for transactions conducted in currencies other than the functional currency; differing local product preferences and product requirements; differing degrees of protection for intellectual property; adverse changes in the economies in which we or our partners and suppliers operate as a result of a slowdown in overall growth, a change in government or economic policies, or financial, political, or social change or instability in such countries that affects the markets in which we operate, particularly emerging markets; changes in employment laws, wage increases, or rising inflation in the countries in which we or our partners and suppliers operate; supply disruptions, and increases in energy and transportation costs; natural disasters, including droughts, floods, and earthquakes in the countries in which we operate; local disturbances, terrorist attacks, riots, social disruption, or regional hostilities in the countries in which we or our partners and suppliers operate; and government uncertainty, including as a result of new or changed laws and regulations. we also face the risk that some of our competitors have more experience with operations in such countries or with international operations generally and may be able to manage unexpected crises more easily. furthermore, whether due to language, cultural or other differences, public and other statements that we make may be misinterpreted, misconstrued, or taken out of context in different jurisdictions. moreover, the internal political stability of, or the relationship between, any country or countries where we conduct business operations may deteriorate. changes in a country's political stability or the state of relations between any such countries are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our operations. any such changes could lead to a decline in our profitability and/or adversely impact our ability to do business. any meaningful deterioration of the political or social stability in and/or diplomatic relations between any countries in which we or our partners and suppliers do business could have a material adverse effect on our operations. the occurrence of any of the above risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we are subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, u.k. bribery act, and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws, which impose restrictions on certain conduct and may carry substantial fines and penalties. we are subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions. these laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from engaging in bribery or making other prohibited payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and some have record keeping requirements. the failure to comply with these laws could result in substantial criminal and/or monetary penalties. we operate in jurisdictions that have experienced corruption, bribery, pay-offs and other similar practices from time-to-time and, in certain circumstances, such practices may be local custom. we have implemented internal control policies and procedures that mandate compliance with these anti-corruption laws. however, we cannot be certain that these policies and procedures will protect us against liability. there can be no assurance that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. if our employees or agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe criminal or civil penalties and other consequences that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. our failure to comply with applicable environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations worldwide could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we are subject to various u.s. federal, state, and local and non-u.s. laws and regulations concerning, among other things, the environment, climate change, regulation of chemicals, employee safety and product safety. these requirements include regulation of the handling, manufacture, transportation, storage, use and disposal of materials, including the discharge of hazardous materials and pollutants into the environment. in the normal course of our business, we are exposed to risks relating to possible releases of hazardous substances into the environment, which could cause environmental or property damage or personal injuries, and which could result in (i) our noncompliance with such environmental and occupational health 32 table of contents and safety laws and regulations and (ii) regulatory enforcement actions or claims for personal injury and property damage against us. if an unapproved or illegal environmental discharge occurs, or if we discover contamination caused by prior operations, including by prior owners and operators of properties we acquire, we could be liable for cleanup obligations, damages and fines. the substantial unexpected costs we may incur could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. in addition, our environmental capital expenditures and costs for environmental compliance may increase substantially in the future as a result of changes in environmental laws and regulations, the development and manufacturing of a new product or increased development or manufacturing activities at any of our facilities. we may be required to expend significant funds and our manufacturing activities could be delayed or suspended, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. currency fluctuations and changes in exchange rates could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. although we report our financial results in u.s. dollars, a significant portion of our revenues, indebtedness and other liabilities and our costs are denominated in non-u.s. currencies, including among others the euro, swedish krona, indian rupee, japanese yen, australian dollar, canadian dollar, pound sterling and brazilian real . our results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows, have in the past been and may in the future be adversely affected by certain movements in currency exchange rates. in particular, the risk of a debt default by one or more european countries and related european or national financial restructuring efforts may cause volatility in the value of the euro. defaults or restructurings in other countries could have a similar adverse impact. from time to time, we may implement currency hedges intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. however, our hedging strategies may not be successful, and any of our unhedged foreign exchange exposures will continue to be subject to market fluctuations. the occurrence of any of the above risks could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. our significant operations in india may be adversely affected by regulatory, economic, social, and political uncertainties or change, major hostilities, military activity, and/or acts of terrorism in southern asia. in recent years, our indian subsidiaries have benefited from many policies of the government of india and the indian state governments in which they operate, which are designed to promote foreign investment generally, including significant tax incentives, liberalized import and export duties, and preferential rules on foreign investment and repatriation. there is no assurance that such policies will continue. various factors, such as changes in the current federal government, could trigger significant changes in india's economic liberalization and deregulation policies and disrupt business and economic conditions in india generally and our business in particular. in addition, our financial performance may be adversely affected by general economic conditions; economic, fiscal and social policy in india, including changes in exchange rates and controls, interest rates and taxation policies; and social instability and political, economic, or diplomatic developments affecting india in the future. in particular, india has experienced significant economic growth over the last several years, but faces major challenges in sustaining that growth in the years ahead. these challenges include the need for substantial infrastructure development and improving access to healthcare and education. our ability to recruit, train, and retain qualified employees and develop and operate our manufacturing facilities in india could be adversely affected if india does not successfully meet these challenges. southern asia has, from time to time, experienced instances of civil unrest and hostilities among neighboring countries, including india and pakistan, and within the countries themselves. terrorist attacks, military activity, rioting, or civil or political unrest in the future could influence the indian economy and our operations and employees by disrupting operations and communications and making travel and the conduct of our business more difficult. resulting political or social tensions could create a greater perception that investments in companies with indian operations involve a high degree of risk, and that there is a risk of disruption of services provided by companies with indian operations, which could impact our customers' willingness to do business with us and have a material adverse effect on the market for our products. furthermore, if india were to become engaged in armed hostilities, including but not limited to hostilities that were protracted or involved the threat or use of nuclear or other weapons of mass destruction, our india operations might not be able to continue. we generally do not have insurance for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist attacks, military conflicts and wars. the occurrence of any of these risks could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. 33 table of contents an inability to identify or successfully bid for suitable acquisition targets, or consummate and effectively integrate recent and future potential acquisitions, or to effectively deal with and respond to unsolicited business proposals could limit our future growth and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we may continue to seek to expand our product line and/or business platform organically as well as through complementary or strategic acquisitions of other companies, products, or assets or through joint ventures, licensing agreements, or other arrangements. acquisitions or similar arrangements may prove to be complex and time consuming and require substantial resources and effort. we may compete for certain acquisition targets with companies having greater financial resources than us or other advantages over us that may hinder or prevent us from acquiring a target company or completing another transaction, which could also result in significant diversion of management time, as well as substantial out-of-pocket costs. if an acquisition is consummated, the integration of such acquired business, product, or other assets into us may also be complex, time consuming, and result in substantial costs and risks. the integration process may distract management and/or disrupt our ongoing businesses, which may adversely affect our relationships with customers, employees, partners, suppliers, regulators, and others with whom we have business or other dealings. in addition, there are operational risks associated with the integration of acquired businesses. these risks include, but are not limited to, difficulties in achieving or inability to achieve identified or anticipated financial and operating synergies, cost savings, revenue synergies, and growth opportunities; difficulties in consolidating or inability to effectively consolidate information technology and manufacturing platforms, business applications, and corporate infrastructure; the impact of pre-existing legal and/or regulatory issues, such as quality and manufacturing concerns, among others; the risks that acquired companies or businesses do not operate to the same quality, manufacturing, or other standards as us; the impacts of substantial indebtedness and assumed liabilities; challenges associated with operating in new markets; and the unanticipated effects of export controls, exchange rate fluctuations, domestic and foreign political conditions, and/or domestic and foreign economic conditions. in addition, in april 2015 we received an unsolicited and subsequently withdrawn non-binding expression of interest from teva pharmaceutical industries ltd. to acquire all of our outstanding shares and may receive similar proposals in the future. such unsolicited business proposals may not be consistent with or enhancing to our financial, operational, or market strategies (which we believe have proven to be successful) and may not further the interests of our shareholders and other stakeholders, including employees, creditors, customers, suppliers, relevant patient populations and communities in which mylan operates and may jeopardize the sustainable success of mylan's business. however, the evaluation of and response to such unsolicited business proposals may nevertheless distract management and/or disrupt our ongoing businesses, which may adversely affect our relationships with customers, employees, partners, suppliers, regulators, and others with whom we have business or other dealings. we may be unable to realize synergies or other benefits, including tax savings, expected to result from acquisitions, joint ventures, or other transactions or investments we may undertake, or we may be unable to generate additional revenue to offset any unanticipated inability to realize these expected synergies or benefits. realization of the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or other transactions could take longer than expected, and implementation difficulties, unforeseen expenses, complications and delays, market factors, or deterioration in domestic and global economic conditions could reduce the anticipated benefits of any such transactions. we also may inherit legal, regulatory, and other risks that occurred prior to the acquisition, whether known or unknown to us. any one of these challenges or risks could impair our growth and ability to compete, require us to focus additional resources on integration of operations rather than more profitable activities, require us to reexamine our business strategy, or otherwise cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we may decide to sell assets, which could adversely affect our prospects and opportunities for growth. we may from time to time consider selling certain assets if (i) we determine that such assets are not critical to our strategy or (ii) we believe the opportunity to monetize the asset is attractive or for various other reasons, including for the reduction of indebtedness. we have explored and may continue to explore the sale of certain non-core assets. although our expectation is to engage in asset sales only if they advance or otherwise support our overall strategy, any such sale could reduce the size or scope of our business, our market share in particular markets or our opportunities with respect to certain markets, 34 table of contents products or therapeutic categories. as a result, any such sale could have an adverse effect on our business, prospects and opportunities for growth, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. charges to earnings resulting from acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or ordinary share price. under u.s. gaap business acquisition accounting standards, we recognize the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interests in acquired companies generally at their acquisition date fair values and, in each case, separately from goodwill. goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess amount of consideration transferred, which is also generally measured at fair value, and the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain. after we complete an acquisition, the following factors could result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results and may adversely affect our cash flows: costs incurred to combine the operations of companies we acquire, such as transitional employee expenses and employee retention, redeployment or relocation expenses; impairment of goodwill or intangible assets, including acquired in-process research and development; amortization of intangible assets acquired; a reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired; identification of or changes to assumed contingent liabilities, including, but not limited to, contingent purchase price consideration, income tax contingencies and other non-income tax contingencies, after our final determination of the amounts for these contingencies or the conclusion of the measurement period (generally up to one year from the acquisition date), whichever comes first; charges to our operating results to eliminate certain duplicative pre-acquisition activities, to restructure our operations or to reduce our cost structure; charges to our operating results resulting from expenses incurred to effect the acquisition; and changes to contingent consideration liabilities, including accretion and fair value adjustments. a significant portion of these adjustments could be accounted for as expenses that will decrease our net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those costs are incurred. such charges could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. the significant and increasing amount of intangible assets and goodwill recorded on our balance sheet, mainly related to acquisitions, may lead to significant impairment charges in the future which could lead us to have to take significant charges against earnings. we regularly review our long-lived assets, including identifiable intangible assets and goodwill, for impairment. goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are subject to impairment assessment at least annually. other long-lived assets are reviewed when there is an indication that an impairment may have occurred. the amount of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet has increased significantly as a result of our acquisitions and other transactions, including meda, and may increase further following future potential acquisitions. in addition, we may from time to time sell assets that we determine are not critical to our strategy or execution. future events or decisions may lead to asset impairments and/or related charges. certain non-cash impairments may result from a change in our strategic goals, business direction or other factors relating to the overall business environment. any impairment of the value of goodwill or other intangible assets will result in a charge against earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, shareholder's equity, and/or ordinary share price. the pharmaceutical industry is heavily regulated and we face significant costs and uncertainties associated with our efforts to comply with applicable laws and regulations. 35 table of contents the pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by various governmental authorities. for instance, we must comply with applicable laws and requirements of the fda and comparable regulatory agencies, including foreign authorities, in our other markets with respect to the research, development, manufacture, quality, safety, effectiveness, approval, labeling, storage, record-keeping, reporting, pharmacovigilance, sale, distribution, import, export, marketing, advertising, and promotion of pharmaceutical products. failure to comply with regulations of the fda and other foreign regulators could result in a range of consequences, including, but not limited to, fines, penalties, disgorgement, unanticipated compliance expenditures, suspension of review of applications or other submissions, rejection or delay in approval of applications, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, our inability to sell products, the return by customers of our products, injunctions, and/or criminal prosecution. under certain circumstances, a regulator may also have the authority to revoke or vary previously granted drug approvals. the safety profile of any product will continue to be closely monitored by the fda and comparable foreign regulatory authorities after approval. if the fda or comparable foreign regulatory authorities become aware of new safety information about any of our marketed or investigational products, those authorities may require labeling changes, establishment of a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy or similar strategy, restrictions on a product's indicated uses or marketing, or post-approval studies or post-market surveillance. the fda and comparable regulatory authorities also regulate the facilities and operational procedures that we use to manufacture our products. we must register our facilities with the fda and similar regulators in other countries. products must be manufactured in our facilities in accordance with current good manufacturing practices ( cgmp ) or similar standards in each territory in which we manufacture. compliance with such regulations requires substantial expenditures of time, money, and effort in multiple areas, including training of personnel, record-keeping, production, and quality control and quality assurance. the fda and other regulatory authorities, including foreign authorities, periodically inspect our manufacturing facilities for compliance with cgmp or similar standards in the applicable territory. regulatory approval to manufacture a drug is granted on a site-specific basis. failure to comply with cgmp and other regulatory standards at one of our or our partners' or suppliers' manufacturing facilities could result in an adverse action brought by the fda or other regulatory authorities, which could result in a receipt of an untitled or warning letter, fines, penalties, disgorgement, unanticipated compliance expenditures, rejection or delay in approval of applications, suspension of review of applications or other submissions, suspension of ongoing clinical trials, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, our inability to sell products, the return by customers of our products, orders to suspend, vary, or withdraw marketing authorizations, injunctions, consent decrees, requirements to modify promotional materials or issue corrective information to healthcare practitioners, refusal to permit import or export, criminal prosecution and/or other adverse actions. if any regulatory body were to delay, withhold, or withdraw approval of an application; require a recall or other adverse product action; require one of our manufacturing facilities to cease or limit production; or suspend, vary, or withdraw related marketing authorization, our business could be adversely affected. delay and cost in obtaining fda or other regulatory approval to manufacture at a different facility also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. although we have established internal regulatory compliance programs and policies, there is no guarantee that these programs and policies, as currently designed, will meet regulatory agency standards in the future or will prevent instances of non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations. additionally, despite our efforts at compliance, from time to time we receive notices of manufacturing and quality-related observations following inspections by regulatory authorities around the world, as well as official agency correspondence regarding compliance. we may receive similar observations and correspondence in the future. if we are unable to resolve these observations and address regulator's concerns in a timely fashion, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price could be materially affected. on september 9, 2013, prior to our completion of the agila acquisition, the fda issued a warning letter to strides arcolab for its agila sterile manufacturing facility 2 in bangalore, india ( sff ). on august 6, 2015, the fda issued a second warning letter regarding this facility, the agila onco therapies limited ( otl ) facility and the agila sterile product division facility ( spd ). on july 12, 2016, the fda notified us that, based on its evaluation, it appeared we had addressed the issues related to spd. on september 12, 2016, the fda notified us that, based on its evaluation, it appeared we had addressed the issues related to sff. we continue to work with the fda to resolve the issues related to otl. we are subject to various federal, state and local laws regulating working conditions, as well as environmental protection laws and regulations, including those governing the discharge of materials into the environment and those related to climate change. if changes to such environmental laws and regulations are made in the future that require significant changes in our operations, or if we engage in the development and manufacturing of new products requiring new or different environmental or 36 table of contents other controls, or if we are found to have violated any applicable rules, we may be required to expend significant funds. such changes, delays, and/or suspensions of activities or the occurrence of any of the above risks, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. the use of legal, regulatory, and legislative strategies by both brand and generic competitors, including but not limited to authorized generics and regulatory petitions, as well as the potential impact of proposed and newly enacted legislation, may increase costs associated with the introduction or marketing of our generic products, could delay or prevent such introduction, and could significantly reduce our revenue and profit. our competitors, both branded and generic, often pursue strategies to prevent, delay, or eliminate competition from generic alternatives to branded products. these strategies include, but are not limited to: entering into agreements whereby other generic companies will begin to market an authorized generic, a generic equivalent of a branded product, at the same time or after generic competition initially enters the market; launching a generic version of their own branded product prior to or at the same time or after generic competition initially enters the market; filing petitions with the fda or other regulatory bodies seeking to prevent or delay approvals, including timing the filings so as to thwart generic competition by causing delays of our product approvals; seeking to establish regulatory and legal obstacles that would make it more difficult to demonstrate bioequivalence or to meet other requirements for approval, and/or to prevent regulatory agency review of applications, such as through the establishment of patent linkage (laws and regulations barring the issuance of regulatory approvals prior to patent expiration); initiating legislative or other efforts to limit the substitution of generic versions of brand pharmaceuticals; filing suits for patent infringement and other claims that may delay or prevent regulatory approval, manufacture, and/or scale of generic products; introducing next-generation products prior to the expiration of market exclusivity for the reference product, which often materially reduces the demand for the generic or the reference product for which we seek regulatory approval; persuading regulatory bodies to withdraw the approval of brand name drugs for which the patents are about to expire and converting the market to another product of the brand company on which longer patent protection exists; obtaining extensions of market exclusivity by conducting clinical trials of brand drugs in pediatric populations or by other methods; and seeking to obtain new patents on drugs for which patent protection is about to expire. in the u.s., some companies have lobbied congress for amendments to the hatch-waxman act that would give them additional advantages over generic competitors. for example, although the term of a company's drug patent can be extended to reflect a portion of the time an nda is under regulatory review, some companies have proposed extending the patent term by a full year for each year spent in clinical trials rather than the one-half year that is currently permitted. if proposals like these in the u.s., europe, or in other countries where we or our partners and suppliers operate were to become effective, or if any other actions by our competitors and other third parties to prevent or delay activities necessary to the approval, manufacture, or distribution of our products are successful, our entry into the market and our ability to generate revenues associated with new products may be delayed, reduced, or eliminated, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. if we are unable to successfully introduce new products in a timely manner, our future revenue and profit may be adversely affected. 37 table of contents our future revenues and profitability will depend, in part, upon our ability to successfully and timely develop, license, or otherwise acquire and commercialize new generic products as well as branded pharmaceutical products protected by patent or statutory authority. product development is inherently risky, especially for new drugs for which safety and efficacy have not been established and/or the market is not yet proven as well as for complex generic drugs and biosimilars. likewise, product licensing involves inherent risks, including among others uncertainties due to matters that may affect the achievement of milestones, as well as the possibility of contractual disagreements with regard to whether the supply of product meets certain specifications or terms such as license scope or termination rights. the development and commercialization process, particularly with regard to new and complex drugs, also requires substantial time, effort and financial resources. we, or a partner, may not be successful in commercializing any of such products on a timely basis, if at all, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. before any prescription drug product, including generic drug products, can be marketed, marketing authorization approval is required by the relevant regulatory authorities and/or national regulatory agencies (for example the fda in the u.s. and the ema in the eu). the process of obtaining regulatory approval to manufacture and market new branded and generic pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time consuming, costly, and inherently unpredictable. outside the u.s., the approval process may be more or less rigorous, depending on the country, and the time required for approval may be longer or shorter than that required in the u.s. bioequivalence, clinical, or other studies conducted in one country may not be accepted in other countries, the requirements for approval may differ among countries, and the approval of a pharmaceutical product in one country does not necessarily mean that the product will be approved in another country. we, or a partner or supplier, may be unable to obtain requisite approvals on a timely basis, or at all, for new generic or branded products that we may develop, license or otherwise acquire. moreover, if we obtain regulatory approval for a drug, it may be limited, for example, with respect to the indicated uses and delivery methods for which the drug may be marketed, or may include warnings, precautions or contraindications in the labeling, which could restrict our potential market for the drug. a regulatory approval may also include post-approval study or risk management requirements that may substantially increase the resources required to market the drug. also, for products pending approval, we may obtain raw materials or produce batches of inventory to be used in efficacy and bioequivalence testing, as well as in anticipation of the product's launch. in the event that regulatory approval is denied or delayed, we could be exposed to the risk of this inventory becoming obsolete. the approval process for generic pharmaceutical products often results in the relevant regulatory agency granting final approval to a number of generic pharmaceutical products at the time a patent claim for a corresponding branded product or other market exclusivity expires. this often forces us to face immediate competition when we introduce a generic product into the market. additionally, further generic approvals often continue to be granted for a given product subsequent to the initial launch of the generic product. these circumstances generally result in significantly lower prices, as well as reduced margins, for generic products compared to branded products. new generic market entrants generally cause continued price, margin, and sales erosion over the generic product life cycle. in the u.s., the hatch-waxman act provides for a period of 180 days of generic marketing exclusivity for a first applicant, that is the first submitted anda containing a certification of invalidity, non-infringement or unenforceability related to a patent listed with the anda's reference drug product, commonly referred to as a paragraph iv certification. during this exclusivity period, which under certain circumstances may be shared with other andas filed on the same day, the fda cannot grant final approval to later-submitted andas for the same generic equivalent. if an anda is awarded 180-day exclusivity, the applicant generally enjoys higher market share, net revenues, and gross margin for that generic product. however, our ability to obtain 180 days of generic marketing exclusivity may be dependent upon our ability to obtain fda approval or tentative approval within an applicable time period of the fda's acceptance of our anda. if we are unable to obtain approval or tentative approval within that time period, we may risk forfeiture of such marketing exclusivity. by contrast, if we are not a first applicant to challenge a listed patent for such a product, we may lose significant advantages to a competitor with 180-day exclusivity, even if we obtain fda approval for our generic drug product. the same would be true in situations where we are required to share our exclusivity period with other anda sponsors with paragraph iv certifications. in the eu and other countries and regions, there is no exclusivity period for the first generic product. the european commission or national regulatory agencies may grant marketing authorizations to any number of generics. if we are unable to navigate our products through the approval process in a timely manner, there could be an adverse effect on our product introduction plans, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. 38 table of contents we expend a significant amount of resources on research and development efforts that may not lead to successful product introductions. much of our development effort is focused on technically difficult-to-formulate products and/or products that require advanced manufacturing technology, including our generic biologics program and respiratory platform. we conduct r&amp;d primarily to enable us to gain approval for, manufacture, and market pharmaceuticals in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. we also partner with third parties to develop products. typically, research expenses related to the development of innovative or complex compounds and the filing of marketing authorization applications for innovative and complex compounds (such as ndas and biosimilar applications in the u.s.) are significantly greater than those expenses associated with the development of and filing of marketing authorization applications for most generic products (such as andas in the u.s. and abridged applications in europe). as we and our partners continue to develop new and/or complex products, our research expenses will likely increase. because of the inherent risk associated with r&amp;d efforts in our industry, including the high cost and uncertainty of conducting clinical trials (where required) particularly with respect to new and/or complex drugs, our, or a partner's, research and development expenditures may not result in the successful introduction of new pharmaceutical products approved by the relevant regulatory bodies. also, after we submit a marketing authorization application for a new compound or generic product, the relevant regulatory authority may change standards and/or request that we conduct additional studies or evaluations and, as a result, we may incur approval delays as well as r&amp;d costs in excess of what we anticipated. clinical testing is expensive and can take many years to complete, and its outcome is inherently uncertain. failure can occur at any time during the clinical trial process. we or our partners may experience delays in our ongoing or future clinical trials, and we do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin or enroll subjects on time, need to be redesigned, or be completed on schedule, if at all. clinical trials may be delayed, suspended or prematurely terminated for a variety of reasons. if we experience delays in the completion of, or the termination of, any clinical trial of our product candidates, the commercial prospects of our product candidates will be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues from any of these product candidates will be delayed. in addition, any delays in completing our clinical trials will increase our costs, slow down our product candidate development and approval process, and jeopardize our ability to commence product sales and generate revenues. any of these occurrences may harm our business, financial condition and prospects significantly. in addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of our product candidates. finally, we cannot be certain that any investment made in developing products will be recovered, even if we are successful in commercialization. to the extent that we expend significant resources on r&amp;d efforts and are not able, ultimately, to introduce successful new and/or complex products as a result of those efforts, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. even if our products in development receive regulatory approval, such products may not achieve expected levels of market acceptance. even if we are able to obtain regulatory approvals for our new generic or branded pharmaceutical products, the success of those products is dependent upon market acceptance. levels of market acceptance for our products could be impacted by several factors, including but not limited to: the availability, perceived advantages, and relative safety and efficacy of alternative products from our competitors; the degree to which the approved labeling supports promotional initiatives for commercial success; the prices of our products relative to those of our competitors; the timing of our market entry; the effectiveness of our marketing, sales, and distribution strategy and operations; other competitor actions; and the continued acceptance of and/or reimbursement for our products by government and private formularies and/or third party payors, as well as the willingness and ability of patients to pay for our products. 39 table of contents additionally, studies of the proper utilization, safety, and efficacy of pharmaceutical products are being conducted by the industry, government agencies, and others. such studies, which increasingly employ sophisticated methods and techniques, can call into question the utilization, safety, and efficacy of previously marketed as well as future products. in some cases, such studies have resulted, and may in the future result, in the discontinuation or variation of product marketing authorizations or requirements for risk management programs, such as a patient registry. any of these events could adversely affect our profitability, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. the development, approval process, manufacture and commercialization of biosimilar products involve unique challenges and uncertainties, and our failure to successfully introduce biosimilar products could have a negative impact on our business and future operating results. we and our partners and suppliers are actively working to develop and commercialize biosimilar products - that is, a biological product that is highly similar to an already approved reference biological product, and for which there are no clinically meaningful differences between the biosimilar and the reference biological product in terms of safety, purity and potency. although the biologics price competition and innovation act of 2009 established a framework for the review and approval of biosimilar products and the fda has begun to review and approve biosimilar product applications, there continues to be significant uncertainty regarding the regulatory pathway in the u.s. and in other countries to obtain approval for biosimilar products. there is also uncertainty regarding the commercial pathway to successfully market and sell such products. moreover, biosimilar products will likely be subject to extensive patent clearances and patent infringement litigation, which could delay or prevent the commercial launch of a biosimilar product for many years. if we are unable to obtain fda or other non-u.s. regulatory authority approval for our products, we will be unable to market them. even if our biosimilar products are approved for marketing, the products may not be commercially successful and may not generate profits in amounts that are sufficient to offset the amount invested to obtain such approvals. market success of biosimilar products will depend on demonstrating to regulators, patients, physicians and payors (such as insurance companies) that such products are safe and effective yet offer a more competitive price or other benefit over existing therapies. in addition, the development and manufacture of biosimilars pose unique challenges related to the supply of the materials needed to manufacture biosimilars. access to and the supply of necessary biological materials may be limited, and government regulations restrict access to and regulate the transport and use of such materials. we may not be able to generate future sales of biosimilar products in certain jurisdictions and may not realize the anticipated benefits of our investments in the development, manufacture and sale of such products. if our development efforts do not result in the development and timely approval of biosimilar products or if such products, once developed and approved, are not commercially successful, or upon the occurrence of any of the above risks, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price could be materially adversely affected. our business is highly dependent upon market perceptions of us, our brands, and the safety and quality of our products, and may be adversely impacted by negative publicity or findings. market perceptions of us are very important to our business, especially market perceptions of our company and brands and the safety and quality of our products. if we, our partners and suppliers, or our brands suffer from negative publicity, or if any of our products or similar products which other companies distribute are subject to market withdrawal or recall or are proven to be, or are claimed to be, ineffective or harmful to consumers, then this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. also, because we are dependent on market perceptions, negative publicity associated with product quality, patient illness, or other adverse effects resulting from, or perceived to be resulting from, our products, or our partners' and suppliers' manufacturing facilities, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. the illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit versions of our products or of diverted or stolen products could have a negative impact on our reputation and our business. the pharmaceutical drug supply has been increasingly challenged by the vulnerability of distribution channels to illegal counterfeiting and the presence of counterfeit products in a growing number of markets and over the internet. third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit versions of our products that do not meet the rigorous manufacturing and testing standards that our products undergo. counterfeit products are frequently unsafe or ineffective, and 40 table of contents can be potentially life-threatening. counterfeit medicines may contain harmful substances, the wrong dose of api or no api at all. however, to distributors and users, counterfeit products may be visually indistinguishable from the authentic version. reports of adverse reactions to counterfeit drugs or increased levels of counterfeiting could materially affect patient confidence in the authentic product. it is possible that adverse events caused by unsafe counterfeit products will mistakenly be attributed to the authentic product. in addition, unauthorized diversions of products or thefts of inventory at warehouses, plants, or while in-transit, which are not properly stored and which are sold through unauthorized channels, could adversely impact patient safety, our reputation, and our business. public loss of confidence in the integrity of pharmaceutical products as a result of counterfeiting, diversion, or theft could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. our competitors, including branded pharmaceutical companies, and/or other third parties, may allege that we and/or our suppliers are infringing upon their intellectual property, including in an at risk launch situation, impacting our ability to launch a product, and/or our ability to continue marketing a product, and/or forcing us to expend substantial resources in resulting litigation, the outcome of which is uncertain. companies that produce branded pharmaceutical products and other patent holders routinely bring litigation against entities selling or seeking regulatory approval to manufacture and market generic forms of their branded products, as well as other entities involved in the manufacture, supply, testing, marketing, and other aspects relating to active pharmaceutical ingredients and finished pharmaceutical products. these companies and other patent holders allege patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights as the basis for filing suit against an applicant for a generic product license as well as others who may be involved in some aspect of the research, production, distribution, or testing process. litigation often involves significant expense and can delay or prevent introduction or sale of our generic products. if patents are held valid and infringed by our products in a particular jurisdiction, we and/or our supplier(s) or partner(s) may, unless we or the supplier(s) or partner(s) could obtain a license from the patent holder, need to cease manufacturing and other activities, including but not limited to selling in that jurisdiction, pay damages, and may need to surrender or withdraw the product, or destroy existing stock in that jurisdiction. there also may be situations where we use our business judgment and decide to manufacture, market, and/or sell products, directly or through third parties, notwithstanding the fact that allegations of patent infringement(s) have not been finally resolved by the courts (i.e., an at-risk launch ). the risk involved in doing so can be substantial because the remedies available to the owner of a patent for infringement may include, among other things, damages measured by the profits lost by the patent holder and not necessarily by the profits earned by the infringer. in the case of a finding by a court of willful infringement, the definition of which is subjective, such damages may be increased by an additional 200% in certain jurisdictions, including the u.s. moreover, because of the discount pricing typically involved with bioequivalent (generic) products, patented branded products generally realize a substantially higher profit margin than bioequivalent products. an adverse decision in a case such as this or in other similar litigation, or a judicial order preventing us or our suppliers and partners from manufacturing, marketing, selling, and/or other activities necessary to the manufacture and distribution of our products, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. if we or any partner or supplier fail to obtain or adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, then we could lose revenue under our licensing agreements or lose sales to generic copies of our branded products. our success depends in part on our or any partner's or supplier's ability to obtain, maintain and enforce patents, and protect trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, and other intellectual property and proprietary information. our ability to commercialize any branded product successfully will largely depend upon our or any partner's or supplier's ability to obtain and maintain patents and trademarks of sufficient scope to lawfully prevent third-parties from developing and/or marketing infringing products. in the absence of intellectual property or other protection, competitors may adversely affect our branded products business by independently developing and/or marketing substantially equivalent products. it is also possible that we could incur substantial costs if we are required to initiate litigation against others to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. we have filed patent applications covering the composition of, methods of making, and/or methods of using, our branded products and branded product candidates. we may not be issued patents based on patent applications already filed or 41 table of contents that we file in the future. further, due to other factors that affect patentability, and if patents are issued, they may be insufficient in scope to cover or otherwise protect our branded products. patents are national in scope and therefore the issuance of a patent in one country does not ensure the issuance of a patent in any other country. furthermore, the patent position of companies in the pharmaceutical industry generally involves complex legal and factual questions and has been and remains the subject of significant litigation. legal standards relating to scope and validity of patent claims are evolving and may differ in various countries. any patents we have obtained, or obtain in the future, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. moreover, the u.s. patent and trademark office or any other governmental agency may commence opposition or interference proceedings involving, or consider other challenges to, our patents or patent applications. in addition, branded products often have market viability based upon the goodwill of the product name, which typically benefits from trademark protection. our branded products may therefore also be subject to risks related to the loss of trademark or patent protection or to competition from generic or other branded products. challenges can come from other businesses or governments, and governments could require compulsory licensing of this intellectual property. any challenge to, or invalidation or circumvention of, our intellectual property (including patents or patent applications and trademark protection) would be costly, would require significant time and attention of our management, and could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we develop, formulate, manufacture, or in-license and market products that are subject to economic risks relating to intellectual property rights, competition, and market unpredictability. our products may be subject to the following risks, among others: limited patent life, or the loss of patent protection; competition from generic or other branded products; reductions in reimbursement rates by government and other third-party payors; importation by consumers; product liability; drug research and development risks; and unpredictability with regard to establishing a market. in addition, developing and commercializing branded products is generally more costly than generic products. if such business expenditures do not ultimately result in the launch of commercially successful brand products, or if any of the risks above were to occur, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we face vigorous competition from other pharmaceutical manufacturers that threatens the commercial acceptance and pricing of our products. the pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. we face competition from many u.s. and non-u.s. manufacturers, some of whom are significantly larger than we are. our competitors may be able to develop products and processes competitive with or superior to our own for many reasons, including but not limited to the possibility that they may have: proprietary processes or delivery systems; larger or more productive research and development and marketing staffs; larger or more efficient production capabilities in a particular therapeutic area; more experience in preclinical testing and human clinical trials; more products; or 42 table of contents more experience in developing new drugs and greater financial resources, particularly with regard to manufacturers of branded products. the occurrence of any of the above risks could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we also face increasing competition from lower-cost generic products and other branded products. certain of our products are not protected by patent rights or have limited patent life and will soon lose patent protection. loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by generic substitutes. as a result, sales of many of these products may decline or stop growing over time. various factors may result in the sales of certain of our products, particularly those acquired in the meda transaction and the epd transaction, declining faster than has been projected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. in addition, legislative proposals emerge from time to time in various jurisdictions to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs. any such proposal that is enacted into law could increase competition and worsen this negative effect on our sales and, potentially, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or ordinary share price. competitors' products may also be safer, more effective, more effectively marketed or sold, or have lower prices or better performance features than ours. we cannot predict with certainty the timing or impact of competitors' products. in addition, our sales may suffer as a result of changes in consumer demand for our products, including those related to fluctuations in consumer buying patterns tied to seasonality or the introduction of new products by competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. a relatively small group of products may represent a significant portion of our revenues, gross profit, net sales, or net earnings from time to time. sales of a limited number of our products from time to time represent a significant portion of our revenues, gross profit, and net earnings. for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, mylan's top ten products in terms of sales, in the aggregate, represented approximately 27% and 28% , respectively, of the company's third party net sales. if the volume or pricing of our largest selling products declines in the future, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price could be materially adversely affected. a significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales to a limited number of customers. a significant portion of our revenues are derived from sales to a limited number of customers. if we were to experience a significant reduction in or loss of business with one or more such customers, or if one or more such customers were to experience difficulty in paying us on a timely basis, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price could be materially adversely affected. during the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, mylan's consolidated third party net sales to cardinal health, inc. were approximately 11% , 12% and 12% , respectively; mylan's consolidated third party net sales to mckesson corporation were approximately 16% , 15% and 19% , respectively; and mylan's consolidated third party net sales to amerisourcebergen corporation were approximately 14% , 16% and 13% , respectively, of consolidated third party net sales. our business could be negatively affected by the performance of our collaboration partners and suppliers. we have entered into strategic alliances with partners and suppliers to develop, manufacture, market and/or distribute certain products, and/or certain components of our products, in various markets. we commit substantial effort, funds and other resources to these various collaborations. there is a risk that the investments made by us in these collaborative arrangements will not generate financial returns. while we believe our relationships with our partners and suppliers generally are successful, disputes or conflicting priorities and regulatory or legal intervention could be a source of delay or uncertainty as to the expected benefits of the collaboration. a failure or inability of our partners or suppliers to fulfill their collaboration obligations, or the occurrence of any of the risks above, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we may experience declines in the sales volume and prices of our products as the result of the continuing trend toward consolidation of certain customer groups, such as the 43 table of contents wholesale drug distribution and retail pharmacy industries, as well as the emergence of large buying groups. a significant amount of our sales are to a relatively small number of drug wholesalers and retail drug chains. these customers represent an essential part of the distribution chain of generic pharmaceutical products. drug wholesalers and retail drug chains have undergone, and are continuing to undergo, significant consolidation. this consolidation may result in these groups gaining additional purchasing leverage and, consequently, increasing the product pricing pressures facing our business. additionally, the emergence of large buying groups representing independent retail pharmacies and the prevalence and influence of managed care organizations and similar institutions increases the negotiating power of these groups, potentially enabling them to attempt to extract price discounts, rebates, and other restrictive pricing terms on our products. the occurrence of any of the above risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we depend to a large extent on third-party suppliers and distributors for raw materials, particularly the chemical compound(s) that constitute the active pharmaceutical ingredients that we use to manufacture our products, as well as certain finished goods, including certain controlled substances. these third-party suppliers and distributors may experience delays in or inability to supply us with raw materials necessary to the development and/or manufacture of our products. we purchase certain api (i.e., the chemical compounds that produce the desired therapeutic effect in our products) and other materials and supplies that we use in our manufacturing operations, as well as certain finished products, from many different foreign and domestic suppliers. in certain cases, we have listed only one supplier in our applications with regulatory agencies, and there is no guarantee that we will always have timely and sufficient access to a critical raw material or finished product supplied by third parties, even when we have more than one supplier. an interruption in the supply of a single-sourced or any other raw material, including the relevant api, or in the supply of finished product, could cause our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price to be materially adversely affected. in addition, our manufacturing and supply capabilities could be adversely impacted by quality deficiencies in the products which our suppliers provide, or at their manufacturing facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we utilize controlled substances in certain of our current products and products in development, and therefore must meet the requirements of the controlled substances act of 1970 and the related regulations administered by the dea in the u.s., as well as similar laws in other countries where we operate. these laws relate to the manufacture, shipment, storage, sale, and use of controlled substances. the dea and other regulatory agencies limit the availability of the controlled substances used in certain of our current products and products in development and, as a result, our procurement quota of these active ingredients may not be sufficient to meet commercial demand or complete clinical trials. we must annually apply to the dea and similar regulatory agencies for procurement quotas in order to obtain these substances. any delay or refusal by the dea or such similar agencies in establishing our procurement quota for controlled substances could delay or stop our clinical trials or product launches, or could cause trade inventory disruptions for those products that have already been launched, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. the supply of api into europe may be negatively affected by recent regulations promulgated by the european union. all api imported into the eu has needed to be certified as complying with the good manufacturing practice standards established by the eu laws and guidance, as stipulated by the international conference for harmonization. these regulations place the certification requirement on the regulatory bodies of the exporting countries. accordingly, the national regulatory authorities of each exporting country must: (i) ensure that all manufacturing plants within their borders that export api into the eu comply with eu manufacturing standards and (ii) for each api exported, present a written document confirming that the exporting plant conforms to eu manufacturing standards. the imposition of this responsibility on the governments of the nations exporting an api may cause delays in delivery or shortages of an api necessary to manufacture our products, as certain governments may not be willing or able to comply with the regulation in a timely fashion, or at all. a shortage in api may prevent us from manufacturing, or cause us to have to cease manufacture of, certain products, or to incur costs and delays to qualify other suppliers to substitute for those api manufacturers unable to export. the occurrence of any of the above risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. 44 table of contents we have a limited number of manufacturing facilities and certain third party suppliers producing a substantial portion of our products, some of which require a highly exacting and complex manufacturing process. a substantial portion of our capacity, as well as our current production, is attributable to a limited number of manufacturing facilities and certain third party suppliers. a significant disruption at any one of such facilities within our internal or third party supply chain, even on a short-term basis, whether due to a labor strike, failure to reach acceptable agreement with labor and unions, adverse quality or compliance observation, other regulatory action, infringement of intellectual property rights, act of god, civil or political unrest, export or import restrictions, or other events could impair our ability to produce and ship products to the market on a timely basis and could, among other consequences, subject us to exposure to claims from customers. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. in addition, the manufacture of some of our products is a highly exacting and complex process, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. problems may arise during manufacturing for a variety of reasons, including among others equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials, natural disasters, power outages, labor unrest, and environmental factors. if problems arise during the production of a batch of product, that batch of product may have to be discarded. this could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, damage to customer relations, time and expense spent investigating the cause, and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other batches or products. if problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, recall and product liability costs may also be incurred. if we or one of our suppliers experiences significant manufacturing problems, such problems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. our reporting and payment obligations related to our participation in u.s. federal healthcare programs, including medicare and medicaid, are complex and often involve subjective decisions that could change as a result of new business circumstances, new regulations or agency guidance, or advice of legal counsel. any failure to comply with those obligations could subject us to investigation, penalties, and sanctions. federal laws regarding reporting and payment obligations with respect to a pharmaceutical company's participation in federal healthcare programs, including medicare and medicaid, are complex. because our processes for calculating applicable government prices and the judgments involved in making these calculations involve subjective decisions and complex methodologies, these calculations are subject to risk of errors and differing interpretations. in addition, they are subject to review and challenge by the applicable governmental agencies, and it is possible that such reviews could result in changes that may have material adverse legal, regulatory, or economic consequences. pharmaceutical manufacturers that participate in the medicaid drug rebate program, such as mylan, are required to report certain pricing data to the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services ( cms ), the federal agency that administers the medicare and medicaid programs. this data includes the average manufacturer price ( amp ) for each of the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs. cms calculates a type of u.s. federal ceiling on reimbursement rates to pharmacies for multiple source drugs under the medicaid program, known as the federal upper limit ( ful ). the ppaca includes a provision requiring cms to use the weighted average amp for pharmaceutically and therapeutically equivalent multiple source drugs to calculate fuls, instead of the other pricing data cms previously used. the provision was effective october 1, 2010; however, amp-based fuls have not yet been implemented to set the federal ceiling on reimbursement rates for multiple source drugs. on january 21, 2016, cms issued final regulations to implement the changes to the medicaid drug rebate program under the health reform laws (as defined below), including amp-based fuls. these regulations became effective april 1, 2016. although weighted average amp-based fuls do not reveal mylan's individual amp, publishing a weighted average amp available to customers and the public at large could negatively affect our commercial price negotiations. in addition, a number of state and federal government agencies are conducting investigations of manufacturers' reporting practices with respect to average wholesale prices ( awp ). the government has alleged that reporting of inflated awp has led to excessive payments for prescription drugs, and we may be named as a defendant in actions relating to pharmaceutical pricing issues and whether allegedly improper actions by pharmaceutical manufacturers led to excessive payments by medicare and/or medicaid. any governmental agencies or authorities that have commenced, or may commence, an investigation of us relating to the sales, marketing, pricing, quality, or manufacturing of pharmaceutical products could seek to impose, based on a claim of violation of anti-fraud and false claims laws or otherwise, civil and/or criminal sanctions, including fines, penalties, and possible exclusion from federal healthcare programs, including medicare and medicaid. some of the applicable laws may 45 table of contents impose liability even in the absence of specific intent to defraud. furthermore, should there be ambiguity with regard to how to properly calculate and report payments - and even in the absence of any such ambiguity - a governmental authority may take a position contrary to a position we have taken, and may impose or pursue civil and/or criminal sanctions. governmental agencies may also make changes in program interpretations, requirements or conditions of participation, some of which may have implications for amounts previously estimated or paid. we cannot assure you that our submissions will not be found by cms or the u.s. department of veterans affairs to be incomplete or incorrect. any failure to comply with the above laws and regulations, and any such penalties or sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we may experience reductions in the levels of reimbursement for pharmaceutical products by governmental authorities, hmos, or other third-party payors. in addition, the use of tender systems and other forms of price control could reduce prices for our products or reduce our market opportunities. various governmental authorities (including, among others, the united kingdom national health service and the german statutory health insurance scheme) and private health insurers and other organizations, such as hmos in the u.s., provide reimbursements or subsidies to consumers for the cost of certain pharmaceutical products. demand for our products depends in part on the extent to which such reimbursement is available. in the u.s., third-party payors increasingly challenge the pricing of pharmaceutical products. this trend and other trends toward the growth of hmos, managed healthcare, and legislative healthcare reform create significant uncertainties regarding the future levels of reimbursement for pharmaceutical products. further, any reimbursement may be reduced in the future to the point that market demand for our products and/or our profitability declines. such a decline could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. in addition, a number of markets in which we operate have implemented or may implement tender systems or other forms of price controls for generic pharmaceuticals in an effort to lower prices. under such tender systems, manufacturers submit bids which establish prices for generic pharmaceutical products. upon winning the tender, the winning company will receive a preferential reimbursement for a period of time. the tender system often results in companies underbidding one another by proposing low pricing in order to win the tender. certain other countries may consider the implementation of a tender system or other forms of price controls. even if a tender system is ultimately not implemented, the anticipation of such could result in price reductions. failing to win tenders, or the implementation of similar systems or other forms of price controls in other markets leading to further price declines, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. legislative or regulatory programs that may influence prices of pharmaceutical products could have a material adverse effect on our business. current or future u.s. federal, u.s. state or other countries' laws and regulations may influence the prices of drugs and, therefore, could adversely affect the payment that we receive for our products. for example, programs in existence in certain states in the u.s. seek to broadly set prices, within those states, through the regulation and administration of the sale of prescription drugs. expansion of these programs, in particular state medicare and/or medicaid programs, or changes required in the way in which medicare payment rates are set and/or the way medicaid rebates are calculated, could adversely affect the payment we receive for our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. in order to control expenditure on pharmaceuticals, most member states in the eu regulate the pricing of products and, in some cases, limit the range of different forms of pharmaceuticals available for prescription by national health services. these controls can result in considerable price differences between member states. several countries in which we operate have implemented, or plan to or may implement, government mandated price reductions and/or other controls. when such price cuts occur, pharmaceutical companies have generally experienced significant declines in revenues and profitability and uncertainties continue to exist within the market after the price decrease. such price reductions or controls could have an adverse effect on our business, and as uncertainties are resolved or if other countries in which we operate enact similar measures, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. healthcare reform legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business. 46 table of contents in recent years, there have been numerous initiatives on the federal and state levels for comprehensive reforms affecting the payment for, the availability of and reimbursement for, healthcare services in the u.s., and it is likely that congress and state legislatures and health agencies will continue to focus on healthcare reform in the future. the ppaca and the health care and education and reconciliation act of 2010 (h.r. 4872), which amends the ppaca (collectively, the health reform laws ), were signed into law in march 2010. while the health reform laws may increase the number of patients who have insurance coverage for our products, they also include provisions such as the assessment of a pharmaceutical manufacturer fee and an increase in the amount of rebates that manufacturers pay for coverage of their drugs by medicaid programs. we are unable to predict the future course of federal or state healthcare legislation. the health reform laws and further changes in the law or regulatory framework that reduce our revenues or increase our costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. additionally, we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. in the eu and some other international markets, the government provides healthcare at low cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices, patient eligibility and/or reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. these systems of price regulations may lead to inconsistent and lower prices. within the eu and in other countries, the availability of our products in some markets at lower prices undermines our sales in other markets with higher prices. additionally, certain countries set prices by reference to the prices in other countries where our products are marketed. thus, our inability to secure adequate prices in a particular country may also impair our ability to obtain acceptable prices in existing and potential new markets, and may create the opportunity for third party cross border trade. if significant additional reforms are made to the u.s. healthcare system, or to the healthcare systems of other markets in which we operate, those reforms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we are involved in various legal proceedings and certain government inquiries and may experience unfavorable outcomes of such proceedings or inquiries. we are or may be involved in various legal proceedings and certain government inquiries or investigations, including, but not limited to, patent infringement, product liability, antitrust matters, breach of contract, and claims involving medicare and/or medicaid reimbursements, or laws relating to sales, marketing, and pricing practices, some of which are described in our periodic reports, that involve claims for, or the possibility of, fines and penalties involving substantial amounts of money or other relief, including but not limited to civil or criminal fines and penalties and exclusion from participation in various government health-care-related programs. with respect to government antitrust enforcement and private plaintiff litigation of so-called pay for delay patent settlements, large verdicts, settlements or government fines are possible, especially in the u.s. and eu. if any of these legal proceedings or inquiries were to result in an adverse outcome, the impact could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. with respect to product liability, we maintain a combination of self-insurance (including through our wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary) and commercial insurance to protect against and manage a portion of the risks involved in conducting our business. although we carry insurance, we believe that no reasonable amount of insurance can fully protect against all such risks because of the potential liability inherent in the business of producing pharmaceuticals for human consumption. emerging developments in the u.s. legal landscape relative to the liability of generic pharmaceutical manufacturers for certain product liabilities claims could increase our exposure litigation costs and damages. to the extent that a loss occurs, depending on the nature of the loss and the level of insurance coverage maintained, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. in addition, in limited circumstances, entities that we acquired are party to litigation in matters under which we are, or may be, entitled to indemnification by the previous owners. even in the case of indemnification, there are risks inherent in such indemnities and, accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will receive the full benefits of such indemnification, or that we will not experience an adverse result in a matter that is not indemnified, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we have a number of clean energy investments which are subject to various risks and uncertainties. we have invested in clean energy operations capable of producing refined coal that we believe qualify for tax credits under section 45 of the code. our ability to claim tax credits under section 45 of the code depends upon the operations in which we have invested satisfying certain ongoing conditions set forth in section 45 of the code. these include, among others, 47 table of contents the emissions reduction, qualifying technology , and placed-in-service requirements of section 45 of the code, as well as the requirement that at least one of the operations' owners qualifies as a producer of refined coal. while we have received some degree of confirmation from the irs relating to our ability to claim these tax credits, the irs could ultimately determine that the operations have not satisfied, or have not continued to satisfy, the conditions set forth in section 45 of the code. additionally, congress could modify or repeal section 45 of the code and remove the tax credits retroactively. in addition, section 45 of the code contains phase out provisions based upon the market price of coal, such that, if the price of coal rises to specified levels, we could lose some or all of the tax credits we expect to receive from these investments. finally, when the price of natural gas or oil declines relative to that of coal, some utilities may choose to burn natural gas or oil instead of coal. market demand for coal may also decline as a result of an economic slowdown and a corresponding decline in the use of electricity. if utilities burn less coal, eliminate coal in the production of electricity or are otherwise unable to operate for an extended period of time, the availability of the tax credits would also be reduced. the occurrence of any of the above risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we have significant indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial position and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under such indebtedness. any refinancing of this debt could be at significantly higher interest rates. our substantial indebtedness could lead to adverse consequences. our level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including but not limited to: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, challenges and opportunities, and changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and debt service requirements and other financing needs; increasing our vulnerability to increases in interest rates in general because a substantial portion of our indebtedness bears interest at floating rates; and placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt. our ability to service our indebtedness will depend on our future operating performance and financial results, which will be subject, in part, to factors beyond our control, including interest rates and general economic, financial and business conditions. if we do not have sufficient cash flow to service our indebtedness, we may need to refinance all or part of our existing indebtedness, borrow more money or sell securities or assets, some or all of which may not be available to us at acceptable terms or at all. in addition, we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. although the terms of our senior credit agreements and our bond indentures allow us to incur additional debt, this is subject to certain limitations which may preclude us from incurring the amount of indebtedness we otherwise desire. in addition, although mylan expects to maintain an investment grade credit rating, our increased indebtedness following the completion of the meda acquisition could result in a downgrade in the credit rating of mylan or any indebtedness of mylan or its subsidiaries. a downgrade in the credit rating of mylan or any indebtedness of mylan or its subsidiaries could increase the cost of further borrowings or refinancings of such indebtedness, limit access to sources of financing in the future or lead to other adverse consequences. in addition, if we incur additional debt, the risks described above could intensify. if global credit markets return to their recent levels of contraction, future debt financing may not be available to us when required or may not be available on acceptable terms, and as a result we may be unable to grow our business, take advantage of business opportunities, respond to competitive pressures or satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness. any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. 48 table of contents our credit facilities, senior unsecured notes, accounts receivable securitization facility, other outstanding indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we incur in the future impose, or may impose, significant operating and financial restrictions on us. these restrictions limit our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, make investments, pay certain dividends, prepay other indebtedness, sell assets, incur certain liens, enter into agreements with our affiliates or restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends, merge or consolidate. in addition, our 2016 senior revolving credit agreement, 2016 senior term credit agreement, and accounts receivable securitization facility require us to maintain specified financial ratios. a breach of any of these covenants or our inability to maintain the required financial ratios could result in a default under the related indebtedness. if a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare our indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we enter into various agreements in the normal course of business which periodically incorporate provisions whereby we indemnify the other party to the agreement. in the normal course of business, we periodically enter into commercial, employment, legal settlement, and other agreements which incorporate indemnification provisions. in some but not all cases, we maintain insurance coverage which we believe will effectively mitigate our obligations under certain of these indemnification provisions. however, should our obligation under an indemnification provision exceed any applicable coverage or should coverage be denied, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price could be materially adversely affected. there are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with u.s. gaap. any future changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions used or necessary revisions to prior estimates, judgments or assumptions or changes in accounting standards could lead to a restatement or revision to previously issued financial statements. the consolidated and condensed consolidated financial statements included in the periodic reports we file with the sec are prepared in accordance with u.s. gaap. the preparation of financial statements in accordance with u.s. gaap involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to change in the future and any necessary revisions to prior estimates, judgments or assumptions could lead to a restatement. furthermore, although we have recorded reserves for litigation related contingencies based on estimates of probable future costs, such litigation related contingencies could result in substantial further costs. also, any new or revised accounting standards may require adjustments to previously issued financial statements. any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we must maintain adequate internal controls and be able on an annual basis, to provide an assertion as to the effectiveness of such controls. effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports. we spend a substantial amount of management and other employee time and resources to comply with laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure. in the u.s., such regulations include the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, sec regulations and the nasdaq listing standards. in particular, section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 ( section 404 ) requires management's annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and attestation as to the effectiveness of these controls by our independent registered public accounting firm. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. additionally, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. in addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. there is a limited carveout offered by the sec staff in its published frequently asked questions on management's report on internal control over financial reporting and certification of disclosure in exchange act periodic reports (revised september 24, 2007) which allows an acquired business to be excluded from a company's assessment of its internal controls in 49 table of contents circumstances where it is not possible to conduct an assessment of the acquired business's internal controls and less than a year has passed since an acquisition. management did not include meda in its evaluation of the company's internal control over financial reporting at december 31, 2016 but otherwise concluded that our internal controls were effective as of december 31, 2016. refer to management's report on internal control over financial reporting included in item 8 in this form 10-k. there can be no assurance that our exclusion of internal controls at meda from our assessment will not be met with negative market reaction and will not have an adverse effect on our ordinary share price. we intend, to the extent necessary, to take appropriate measures to establish or enhance internal controls at meda so that we meet the requirements of section 404 and are in position to include meda in our annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls as of december 31, 2017. however, it is possible that we may experience delays in implementing or be unable to implement necessary internal controls and procedures with respect to meda. in addition, in connection with the attestation process required of our independent registered public accounting firm pursuant to section 404, we may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any requested improvements. accordingly, either we or our independent registered public accounting firm (or both) may conclude that our internal controls are ineffective because of a material weakness in internal controls at meda, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. our future success is highly dependent on our continued ability to attract and retain key personnel. loss of key personnel could lead to loss of customers, business disruption, and a decline in revenues, adversely affect the progress of pipeline products, or otherwise adversely affect our operations. it is important that we attract and retain qualified personnel in order to develop and commercialize new products, manage our business, and compete effectively. competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical industry is very intense. if we fail to attract and retain key scientific, technical, commercial, or management personnel, our business could be affected adversely. additionally, while we have employment agreements with certain key employees in place, their employment for the duration of the agreement is not guaranteed. current and prospective employees might also experience uncertainty about their future roles with us following the consummation and integration of our recent transactions, including the epd transaction and the meda transaction, and potential future transactions, which might adversely affect our ability to retain key managers and other employees. if we are unsuccessful in retaining our key employees or enforcing certain post-employment contractual provisions such as confidentiality or non-competition, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. our actual financial position and results of operations may differ materially from the unaudited pro forma financial information included in this annual report. the unaudited pro forma financial information contained in the form 10-k may not be an indication of what our financial position or results of operations would have been had the meda transaction and the epd transaction been completed on the dates indicated nor are they indicative of the future operating results of mylan n.v. the unaudited pro forma financial information has been derived from the historical consolidated financial statements of mylan n.v., mylan inc., meda, and the combined financial statements of the epd business and reflect certain adjustments related to past operating performance and acquisition accounting adjustments, such as increased amortization expense based on the fair value of assets acquired, the impact of transaction costs, and the related income tax effects. the information upon which these adjustments have been made is subjective, and these types of adjustments are difficult to make with complete accuracy. accordingly, the actual financial position and results of our operations following the meda transaction and the epd transaction may not be consistent with, or evident from, this unaudited pro forma financial information and other factors may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price, including, among others, those described herein. the epd business has an ongoing relationship with abbott as a business partner, including with respect to the manufacturing and supply of certain products, sharing of certain intellectual property and provision of certain transition services. abbott or one of its affiliates is required to manufacture products for the epd business, pursuant to certain agreements providing for, among other things, manufacturing and supply services. disruptions or disagreements related to the third-party manufacturing relationship with abbott could impair our ability to ship products to the market on a timely basis and could, among other consequences, subject us to exposure to claims from customers. 50 table of contents mylan has certain obligations to manufacture for and supply products to abbott. accordingly, we may need to allocate resources to provide manufacturing capacity to abbott in lieu of supplying products for the epd business, which could have a negative impact on us. in addition, abbott or one of its affiliates owns registrations, including marketing authorizations, for certain products of the epd business in certain jurisdictions, and disagreements could arise regarding abbott's or our use of such registrations in the territory allocated to each party. prior to the epd transaction, abbott or one of its affiliates performed various corporate functions for the epd business, such as accounting, information technology, and finance, among others. abbott was required to provide some of these functions to the epd business for a period of time pursuant to the transition services agreement, which expired with respect to the majority of services at the end of february 2017. pursuant to a limited extension of the transition services agreement, abbott continues to be obligated to provide certain transition services in certain specified countries during 2017. the epd business may incur temporary interruptions in business operations if it cannot complete the transition effectively from abbott's existing operational systems and transition services. the risks related to the relationships between us and abbott could be exacerbated if abbott fails to perform under the agreements between mylan and abbott or the epd business fails to have necessary systems and services in place when the obligations under the agreements between mylan and abbott expire, and such risks could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. our business relationships, including customer relationships, may be subject to disruption due to our recent transactions, including the meda transaction and the epd transaction. parties with which we currently do business or may do business in the future, including customers and suppliers, may experience ongoing uncertainty associated with our recent transactions, including the meda transaction and the epd transaction, including with respect to current or future business relationships with us. as a result, our business relationships may be subject to disruptions if customers, suppliers, and others attempt to negotiate changes in existing business relationships or consider entering into business relationships with parties other than us. for example, certain customers and collaborators have contractual consent rights or termination rights that may have been triggered by a change of control or assignment of the rights and obligations of contracts that were transferred in our recent transactions, including the meda transaction and the epd transaction. in addition, our contract manufacturing business could be impaired if existing or potential customers determine not to continue or initiate contract manufacturing relationships with us. these disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we are in the process of enhancing and further developing our global erp systems and associated business applications, which could result in business interruptions if we encounter difficulties. we are enhancing and further developing our global erp and other business critical it infrastructure systems and associated applications to provide more operating efficiencies and effective management of our business and financial operations. such changes to erp systems and related software, and other it infrastructure carry risks such as cost overruns, project delays and business interruptions and delays. if we experience a material business interruption as a result of our erp enhancements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. refer to management's report on internal control over financial reporting included in item 8 in this form 10-k. we are increasingly dependent on information technology and our systems and infrastructure face certain risks, including cybersecurity and data leakage risks. significant disruptions to our information technology systems or breaches of information security could adversely affect our business. we are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology systems and infrastructure to operate our business. in the ordinary course of business, we collect, store and transmit large amounts of confidential information (including trade secrets or other intellectual property, proprietary business information and personal information), and it is critical that we do so in a secure manner to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information. we also have outsourced significant elements of our operations to third parties, some of which are outside the u.s., including significant elements of our information technology infrastructure, and as a result we are managing many independent vendor relationships with third parties who may or could have access to our confidential information. the size and complexity of our information technology 51 table of contents systems, and those of our third party vendors with whom we contract, make such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions. the size and complexity of our and our vendors' systems and the large amounts of confidential information that is present on them also makes them potentially vulnerable to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees, partners or vendors, or from attacks by malicious third parties. we and our vendors could be susceptible to third party attacks on our information technology systems, which attacks are of ever increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise, including state and quasi-state actors, criminal groups, hackers and others. maintaining the security, confidentiality and integrity of this confidential information (including trade secrets or other intellectual property, proprietary, business information and personal information) is important to our competitive business position. however, such information can be difficult to protect. while we have taken steps to protect such information and invested heavily in information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent service interruptions or security breaches in our systems or the unauthorized or inadvertent wrongful use or disclosure of confidential information that could adversely affect our business operations or result in the loss, misappropriation, and/or unauthorized access, use or disclosure of, or the prevention of access to, confidential information. a breach of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure, unapproved dissemination, misappropriation or misuse of trade secrets, proprietary information, or other confidential information, whether as a result of theft, hacking, fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, or for any other cause, could enable others to produce competing products, use our proprietary technology or information, and/or adversely affect our business position. further, any such interruption, security breach, or loss, misappropriation, and/or unauthorized access, use or disclosure of confidential information, including personal information regarding our patients and employees, could result in financial, legal, business, and reputational harm to us and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. the expansion of social media platforms present new risks and challenges. the inappropriate use of certain social media vehicles could cause brand damage or information leakage or could lead to legal implications from the improper collection and/or dissemination of personally identifiable information or the improper dissemination of material non-public information. in addition, negative posts or comments about us on any social networking web site could seriously damage our reputation. further, the disclosure of non-public company sensitive information through external media channels could lead to information loss as there might not be structured processes in place to secure and protect information. if our non-public sensitive information is disclosed or if our reputation is seriously damaged through social media, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 85 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange risk a significant portion of our revenues and earnings are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we seek to manage this foreign exchange risk in part through operational means, including managing same currency revenues in relation to same currency costs and same currency assets in relation to same currency liabilities. from time to time, foreign exchange risk is managed through the use of foreign currency forward-exchange contracts. these contracts are used to offset the potential earnings effects from mostly intercompany foreign currency assets and liabilities that arise from operations and from intercompany loans. mylan 's primary areas of foreign exchange risk relative to the u.s. dollar are the euro, swedish krona, indian rupee, japanese yen, australian dollar, canadian dollar, pound sterling and brazilian real . any unhedged foreign exchange exposures continue to be subject to market fluctuations. 85 table of contents our financial instrument holdings at year end were analyzed to determine their sensitivity to foreign exchange rate changes. the fair values of these instruments were determined as follows: foreign currency forward-exchange contracts net present values foreign currency denominated receivables, payables, debt and loans changes in exchange rates in this sensitivity analysis, we assumed that the change in one currency's rate relative to the u.s. dollar would not have an effect on other currencies' rates relative to the u.s. dollar. all other factors were held constant. if there were an adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates of 10% , the expected net effect on net income related to mylan 's foreign currency denominated financial instruments would not be material . interest rate and long-term debt risk mylan 's exposure to interest rate risk arises primarily from our u.s. dollar and euro borrowings and u.s. dollar investments. we invest primarily on a variable-rate basis and we borrow on both a fixed and variable basis. in order to maintain a certain ratio of fixed to variable rate debt, from time to time, depending on market conditions, mylan will use derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps to fix interest rates on variable-rate borrowings or to convert fixed-rate borrowings to variable interest rates. as of december 31, 2016 , mylan 's long-term fixed rate borrowings consist principally of $13.0 billion notional amount of senior notes and euro notes. generally, the fair value of fixed interest rate debt will decrease as interest rates rise and increase as interest rates fall. as of december 31, 2016 , the fair value of our fixed rate senior notes and euro notes was approximately $13.2 billion . a 100 basis point change in interest rates on mylan 's variable rate debt, net of interest rate swaps, would result in a change in interest expense of approximately $32.9 million per year. 86 table of contentsrisk factors 25 risk factors we operate in a complex and rapidly changing environment that involves risks, many of which are beyond our control. any of the following risks, if they occur, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or share price. these risks should be read in conjunction with the other information in this annual report on form 10-k. provisions in our governance arrangements or that are otherwise available under dutch law could discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of us and may affect the market price of our ordinary shares. some provisions of our governance arrangements that are available under dutch law, such as our grant to a dutch foundation (stichting) of a call option to acquire preferred shares to safeguard the interests of the company, its businesses and its stakeholders against threats to our strategy, mission, independence, continuity and/or identity, may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of us, even if such a change in control is sought by our shareholders. we do not anticipate paying dividends for the foreseeable future, and our shareholders must rely on increases in the trading price of our ordinary shares to obtain a return on their investment. mylan n.v. does not anticipate paying dividends in the immediate future. we anticipate that we will retain all earnings, if any, to support our operations and to opportunistically pursue additional transactions to deliver additional shareholder value. any future determination as to the payment of dividends will, subject to dutch law requirements, be at the sole discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our financial position, results of operations, capital requirements, and other factors our board of directors deems relevant at that time. holders of mylan n.v.'s ordinary shares must rely on increases in the trading price of their shares to obtain a return on their investment in the foreseeable future. the market price of our ordinary shares may be volatile, and the value of your investment could materially decline. 25 table of contents investors who hold mylan n.v.'s ordinary shares may not be able to sell their shares at or above the price at which they purchased such shares. the share price of mylan n.v.'s ordinary shares fluctuates materially from time to time, and we cannot predict the price of the ordinary shares at any given time. the risk factors described herein could cause the price of the ordinary shares to fluctuate materially. in addition, the stock market in general, including the market for pharmaceutical companies, has experienced price and volume fluctuations. these broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of the ordinary shares, regardless of our operating performance. in addition, the price of the ordinary shares may be affected by the valuations and recommendations of the analysts who cover us, and if our results do not meet the analysts' forecasts and expectations, the price of the ordinary shares could decline as a result of analysts lowering their valuations and recommendations or otherwise. in the past, following periods of volatility in the market and/or in the price of a company's stock, securities class-action litigation has been instituted against us and other companies. such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management's attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we or our shareholders also may offer or sell our ordinary shares or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for ordinary shares. an increase in the number of the ordinary shares issued and outstanding and the possibility of sales of ordinary shares or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for ordinary shares may depress the future trading price of the ordinary shares. in addition, if additional offerings occur, the voting power of our then existing shareholders may be diluted. our prior acquisitions and potential future acquisitions may not achieve all intended benefits or may disrupt our plans and operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully complete the integration of acquired businesses or assets with mylan, or otherwise fully realize the expected benefits of such transactions. we have grown very rapidly over the past several years as a result of increasing sales and several acquisitions and other transactions, and in the future may opportunistically pursue additional acquisition opportunities that make financial and strategic sense for us. we evaluate various strategic transactions and business arrangements, including acquisitions, asset purchases, partnerships, joint ventures, restructurings, divestitures and investments, on an ongoing basis. these transactions and arrangements may be material both from a strategic and financial perspective. our growth has, and will continue to, put demands on our processes, systems, and employees. furthermore, although our expectation is to engage in asset sales only if they advance or otherwise support our overall strategy, any such sale could reduce the size or scope of our business, our market share in particular markets or our opportunities with respect to certain markets, products or therapeutic categories. in addition, the expected synergies and operating efficiencies of any transaction may not be fully realized within the expected timeframe or at all. many of the factors that drive such expected synergies and operating efficiencies are outside of our control and the overall integration of a business or asset may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer relationships, and diversion of management's attention, among other potential adverse consequences. the difficulties of integrating the operations of a business or asset with mylan include the matters discussed above and, among others: the diversion of management's attention to integration matters, including restructuring activities; difficulties in achieving anticipated synergies, operating efficiencies, business opportunities, and growth prospects from combining an acquired business or asset with mylan; difficulties in the integration of operations and information technology ( it ) applications, including enterprise resource planning ( erp ) systems; difficulties in the integration of employees; difficulties in managing the expanded operations of a significantly larger and more complex company; challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; challenges in reducing reliance on transition services prior to the expiration of any period in which such services are provided by a transaction counterparty; operational or financial difficulties that would not have occurred if acquired companies, businesses, or assets continued operating in their former structures; challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel; and with respect to the epd business, the complexities of managing the ongoing relationship with abbott, and certain of its business partners, including agreements providing for certain services, development and manufacturing relationships, and license arrangements. 26 table of contents any one or more of these matters could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues, and diversion of management's time and energy, and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we expect to be treated as a non-u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. any changes to the tax laws or changes in other laws (including under applicable income tax treaties), regulations, rules, or interpretations thereof applicable to inverted companies and their affiliates, whether enacted before or after the epd transaction, may materially adversely affect us. under current u.s. law, we believe that we should not be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes as a result of mylan's acquisition of mylan inc. and the epd business (the epd transaction ). changes to section 7874 of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ), or to the u.s. treasury regulations promulgated thereunder, or interpretations thereof, or to other relevant tax laws (including applicable income tax treaties), could affect our status as a non-u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes and the tax consequences to us and our affiliates. any such changes could have prospective or retroactive application, and may apply even if enacted or promulgated now that the epd transaction has closed. if we were to be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, or if the relevant tax laws (including applicable income tax treaties) change, we would likely be subject to significantly greater u.s. tax liability than currently contemplated as a non-u.s. corporation or if the relevant tax laws (including applicable income tax treaties) had not changed. on april 4, 2016, the u.s. treasury department and the u.s. internal revenue service ( irs ) issued proposed and temporary regulations interpreting multiple sections of the code (which were partially finalized on january 18, 2017), including section 7874, to address inversion transactions and transactions that treasury and the irs characterize as post-inversion tax avoidance transactions. such regulations generally apply to transactions completed on or after september 22, 2014, although in some cases they have a later effective date of april 4, 2016. the regulations expand the set of circumstances under which section 7874 applies to cause the foreign acquirer of a u.s. corporation to be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. such regulations also impose additional u.s. taxes on certain transactions involving the acquired u.s. corporation's controlled foreign corporations. the regulations do not affect our belief that we expect to be treated as a non-u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. however, if ultimately upheld by a reviewing court, the regulations limit our ability to engage in various intercompany transactions involving non-u.s. subsidiaries. in addition, the u.s. treasury department and the irs issued final and temporary regulations on october 13, 2016, which might limit our ability to deduct interest expense on certain intercompany debt for u.s. federal income tax purposes. the irs may not agree that we should be treated as a non-u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. the irs may not agree that we should be treated as a non-u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. although we are not incorporated in the u.s. and expect to be treated as a non-u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the irs may assert that we should be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. if we were to be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we would likely be subject to significantly greater u.s. tax liability than currently contemplated as a non-u.s. corporation. if the intercompany terms of cross border arrangements that we have among our subsidiaries are determined to be inappropriate or ineffective, our tax liability may increase. we have potential tax exposures resulting from the varying application of statutes, regulations, and interpretations which include exposures on intercompany terms of cross-border arrangements among our subsidiaries (including intercompany loans, sales, and services agreements) in relation to various aspects of our business, including manufacturing, marketing, sales, and delivery functions. although we believe our cross-border arrangements among our subsidiaries are based upon internationally accepted standards and applicable law, tax authorities in various jurisdictions may disagree with and subsequently challenge the amount of profits taxed in their country, which may result in increased tax liability, including accrued interest and penalties, which would cause our tax expense to increase and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. 27 table of contents we may not be able to maintain competitive financial flexibility and our corporate tax rate, and new u.s. tax legislation could adversely affect us and our shareholders. we believe that our structure and operations give us the ability to achieve competitive financial flexibility and a competitive worldwide effective corporate tax rate. the material assumptions underlying our expected tax rates include the fact that we expect certain of our businesses will be operated outside of the u.s. and, as such, will be subject to a lower tax rate than operations in the u.s., which will result in a lower blended worldwide tax rate than we were previously able to achieve. we must also make assumptions regarding the effect of certain internal reorganization transactions, including various intercompany transactions. we cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate will be, however, because of, among other reasons, uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate, potential changes of laws and interpretations thereof, and the potential for tax audits or challenges. our actual effective tax rate may vary from our expectation and that variance may be material. additionally, the tax laws of the u.k., the netherlands and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our effective tax rate. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ). the tax act makes broad and complex changes to the code, including, but not limited to, reducing the u.s. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% effective for tax years beginning after december 31, 2017 and requiring a one-time transition tax on certain unrepatriated earnings of non-u.s. corporate subsidiaries of large u.s. shareholders that may electively be paid over eight years. the tax act also puts in place new tax laws that will impact our taxable income beginning in 2018, which include, but are not limited to (1) creating a base erosion anti-abuse tax, which is a new minimum tax, (2) generally eliminating u.s. federal income taxes on dividends from foreign subsidiaries, (3) a new provision designed to tax currently global intangible low-taxed income ( gilti ) earned by non-u.s. corporate subsidiaries of large u.s. shareholders, which allows for the possibility of utilizing foreign tax credits (foreign tax credits are limited to 80% of foreign taxes paid that are properly attributable to gilti and are segregated into a separate basket, with no carryforward or carryback permitted for excess foreign tax credits) and a deduction generally equal to 50% of gilti (37.5% for tax years beginning after december 31, 2025) to offset the income tax liability, (4) a provision limiting the amount of deductible interest expense in the u.s., (5) the repeal of the domestic manufacturing deduction, (6) limitations on the deductibility of certain executive compensation, and (7) limitations on the utilization of foreign tax credits to reduce the u.s. income tax liability. we are currently evaluating the impact of the tax act on our business and our effective tax rate, and we cannot yet be certain what the effect will be. any of the factors discussed above could materially increase our overall effective income tax rate and income tax expense and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities and changes in income tax laws and tax rulings may have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate and income tax expense. we are subject to income taxes in many jurisdictions. significant analysis and judgment are required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. the final determination of any tax audits or related litigation could be materially different from our income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in our overall profitability, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the results of audits and the examination of previously filed tax returns by taxing authorities, and continuing assessments of our tax exposures could impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we may become taxable in a jurisdiction other than the u.k. and this may increase the aggregate tax burden on us. based on our current management structure and current tax laws of the u.s., the u.k., and the netherlands, as well as applicable income tax treaties, and current interpretations thereof, the u.k. and the netherlands competent authorities have determined that we are tax resident solely in the u.k. for the purposes of the netherlands-u.k. tax treaty. we have received a binding ruling from the competent authorities in the u.k. and in the netherlands confirming this treatment. we will therefore be tax resident solely in the u.k. so long as the facts and circumstances set forth in the relevant application letters sent to those authorities remain accurate. even though we received a binding ruling, the applicable tax laws or interpretations thereof may 28 table of contents change, or the assumptions on which such rulings were based may differ from the facts. as a consequence, we may become a tax resident of a jurisdiction other than the u.k. as a consequence, our overall effective income tax rate and income tax expense could materially increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we may be adversely affected by increased scrutiny from third parties, including governments, or negative publicity with respect to matters relating to our products, pricing practices and other matters. there has been increased press coverage and increased scrutiny from third parties, including regulators, legislative bodies and enforcement agencies, with respect to matters relating to the company's business and pricing practices, and other matters related to the company. this increased press coverage and public scrutiny, including protests by some consumers, have included assertions of wrongdoing by the company which, regardless of the factual or legal basis for such assertions, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, investigations, and calls for investigations, by governmental agencies at both the federal and state levels and have resulted in, and may continue to result in, claims brought against the company by governmental agencies or by private parties or by regulators taking other measures that could have a negative effect on the company's business. for example, both the u.s. house of representatives and the u.s. senate have conducted numerous hearings with respect to pharmaceutical drug pricing practices, including in connection with the investigation of specific price increases by several pharmaceutical companies, including mylan. it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of any such investigations or claims or what other investigations or lawsuits or regulatory responses may result from such assertions, or their impact on the company's business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. any such investigation or claim could also result in reputational harm and reduced market acceptance and demand for our products, could harm our ability to market our products in the future, could cause us to incur significant expense, could cause our senior management to be distracted from execution of our business strategy, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or ordinary share price. there has also recently been intense publicity regarding the pricing of pharmaceuticals more generally, including publicity and pressure resulting from prices charged by competitors and peer companies for new products as well as price increases by competitors and peer companies on older products that the public has deemed excessive. we have experienced and may continue to experience downward pricing pressure on the price of certain of our products due to social or political pressure to lower the cost of drugs, which could reduce our revenue and future profitability. we have and may continue to experience pressure on the pricing of and reimbursements for certain of our products due to consolidation among purchasers or social and political pressure to lower the cost of drugs, which could impact our financial condition or results of operations. we operate in a challenging environment, with significant pressures on the pricing of our products and on our ability to obtain and maintain satisfactory rates of reimbursement for our products by governments, insurers and other payors. the growth of overall healthcare costs has led governments and payors to implement new measures to control healthcare spending. as a result, we face numerous cost-containment measures by governments and other payors, including government-imposed industry-wide price reductions, mandatory pricing systems, reference pricing systems, tender systems, shifting of the payment burden to patients through higher co-payments, and requirements for increased transparency on pricing. in the u.s., these pressures are further compounded by increasing consolidation among wholesalers, retailer drug chains, pharmacy benefit managers, private insurers, managed care organizations and other private payors, which can increase their negotiating power, particularly with respect to our generic drugs. refer to a significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales to a limited number of customers. there has also been increasing u.s. federal and state legislative and enforcement interest with respect to drug pricing. in particular, u.s. federal prosecutors have issued subpoenas to pharmaceutical companies, including mylan, seeking information about their drug pricing practices, among other issues, and members of the congress have sought information from certain pharmaceutical companies, including mylan, relating to drug-price increases. in addition, there has been legislation and legislative proposals concerning drug prices and related issues, including the perceived need to bring more transparency to drug pricing, reviewing the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reforming government program reimbursement methodologies for drugs. for example, in october 2017, the state of maryland enacted legislation prohibiting pharmaceutical manufacturers from selling certain off-patent or generic drugs with purported unconscionable price increases. this type of legislation, at the federal or state level, could affect demand for, 29 table of contents or pricing of, our products and we cannot predict what, if any, additional legislative developments may transpire or what the ultimate impact may be. any of the events or developments described above could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations, cash flows and/or ordinary share price, as well as on our reputation. current and changing economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business, partners and suppliers, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. the global economy continues to experience significant volatility, and the economic environment may continue to be, or become, less favorable than that of past years. economic volatility, governmental financial restructuring efforts and/or evolving deficit and spending reduction programs could negatively impact the global economy and/or the pharmaceutical industry. this has led, and/or could lead, to reduced consumer and customer spending and/or reduced or eliminated governmental or third party payor coverage or reimbursement in the foreseeable future, and this may include reduced spending on healthcare, including but not limited to pharmaceutical products. while generic drugs present an alternative to higher-priced branded products, our sales could be negatively impacted if patients forego obtaining healthcare, patients and customers reduce spending or purchases, and/or if governments and/or third-party payors reduce or eliminate coverage or reimbursement amounts for pharmaceuticals and/or impose price or other controls adversely impacting the price or availability of pharmaceuticals. in addition, reduced consumer and customer spending, and/or reduced government and/or third-party payor coverage or reimbursement, and/or new government controls, may drive us and our competitors to decrease prices and/or may reduce the ability of customers to pay and/or may result in reduced demand for our products. the occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our industry, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. our business, financial condition, and results of operations are subject to risks arising from the international scope of our operations. our operations extend to numerous countries outside the u.s., including our significant operations in india, and are subject to the risks inherent in conducting business globally and under the laws, regulations, and customs of various jurisdictions. these risks include, but are not limited to: compliance with a variety of national and local laws of countries in which we do business, including, but not limited to, data privacy and security, restrictions on the import and export of certain intermediates, drugs, and technologies, as well as compliance with multiple regulatory regimes, differing data protection requirements and differing degrees of protection for intellectual property; less established legal and regulatory regimes in certain jurisdictions; compliance with a variety of u.s. laws including, but not limited to, the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 and rules relating to the use of certain conflict minerals under section 1502 of the dodd-frank wall street reform and the consumer protection act; changes in laws, regulations, and practices affecting the pharmaceutical industry and the healthcare system, including but not limited to imports, exports, manufacturing, quality, cost, pricing, reimbursement, approval, inspection, and delivery of healthcare; changes in policies designed to promote foreign investment, including significant tax incentives, liberalized import and export duties, and preferential rules on foreign investment and repatriation; differing local product preferences and product requirements; adverse changes in the economies in which we or our partners and suppliers operate as a result of a slowdown in overall growth, a change in government or economic policies, or financial, political, or social change or instability in such countries that affects the markets in which we operate, particularly emerging markets; changes in employment laws, wage increases, or rising inflation in the countries in which we or our partners and suppliers operate; supply disruptions and increases in energy and transportation costs; natural disasters, including droughts, floods, and earthquakes in the countries in which we operate; 30 table of contents local disturbances, terrorist attacks, riots, social disruption, wars, or regional hostilities in the countries in which we or our partners and suppliers operate and that could affect the economy, our operations and employees by disrupting operations and communications, making travel and the conduct of our business more difficult, and/or causing our customers to be concerned about our ability to meet their needs; and government uncertainty, including as a result of new or changed laws and regulations. we also face the risk that some of our competitors have more experience with operations in such countries or with international operations generally and may be able to manage unexpected crises more easily. moreover, the internal political stability of, or the relationship between, any country or countries where we conduct business operations may deteriorate. changes in a country's political stability or the state of relations between any such countries are difficult to predict and the political or social stability in and/or diplomatic relations between any countries in which we or our partners and suppliers do business could meaningfully deteriorate. the occurrence of any one or more of the above risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we are subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act, and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws, which impose restrictions on certain conduct and may carry substantial fines and penalties. we are subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions. these laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from engaging in bribery or making other prohibited payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and some have record keeping requirements. the failure to comply with these laws could result in substantial criminal and/or monetary penalties. we operate in jurisdictions that have experienced corruption, bribery, pay-offs and other similar practices from time-to-time and, in certain circumstances, such practices may be local custom. we have implemented internal control policies and procedures that mandate compliance with these anti-corruption laws. however, we cannot be certain that these policies and procedures will protect us against liability. there can be no assurance that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. if our employees or agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe criminal or civil penalties and other consequences that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. our failure to comply with applicable environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations worldwide could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we are subject to various u.s. federal, state, and local and non-u.s. laws and regulations concerning, among other things, the environment, climate change, regulation of chemicals, employee safety and product safety. these requirements include regulation of the handling, manufacture, transportation, storage, use and disposal of materials, including the discharge of hazardous materials and pollutants into the environment. in the normal course of our business, we are exposed to risks relating to possible releases of hazardous substances into the environment, which could cause environmental or property damage or personal injuries, and which could result in (i) our noncompliance with such environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations and (ii) regulatory enforcement actions or claims for personal injury and property damage against us. if an unapproved or illegal environmental discharge occurs, or if we discover contamination caused by prior operations, including by prior owners and operators of properties we acquire, we could be liable for cleanup obligations, damages and fines. the substantial unexpected costs we may incur could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. in addition, our environmental capital expenditures and costs for environmental compliance may increase substantially in the future as a result of changes in environmental laws and regulations, the development and manufacturing of a new product or increased development or manufacturing activities at any of our facilities. we may be required to expend significant funds and our manufacturing activities could be delayed or suspended, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. currency fluctuations and changes in exchange rates could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. 31 table of contents although we report our financial results in u.s. dollars, a significant portion of our revenues, indebtedness and other liabilities and our costs are denominated in non-u.s. currencies, including among others the euro, swedish krona, indian rupee, japanese yen, australian dollar, canadian dollar, british pound sterling and brazilian real. our results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows, have in the past been and may in the future be adversely affected by certain movements in currency exchange rates. defaults or restructurings in other countries could have a similar adverse impact. from time to time, we may implement currency hedges intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. however, our hedging strategies may not be successful, and any of our unhedged foreign exchange exposures will continue to be subject to market fluctuations. the occurrence of any of the above risks could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. an inability to effectively deal with and respond to unsolicited business proposals could limit our future growth and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we have in the past and may in the future receive proposals to acquire all of our outstanding shares or similar unsolicited business proposals. such unsolicited business proposals may not be consistent with or enhancing to our financial, operational, or market strategies and may not further the interests of our shareholders and other stakeholders, including employees, creditors, customers, suppliers, relevant patient populations and communities in which mylan operates and may jeopardize the sustainable success of mylan's business. however, the evaluation of and response to such unsolicited business proposals may nevertheless distract management and/or disrupt our ongoing businesses, which may adversely affect our relationships with customers, employees, partners, suppliers, regulators, and others with whom we have business or other dealings. charges to earnings resulting from acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or ordinary share price. under accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. ( u.s. gaap ) relating to business acquisition accounting standards, we recognize the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interests in acquired companies generally at their acquisition date fair values and, in each case, separately from goodwill. goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess amount of consideration transferred, which is also generally measured at fair value, and the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain. after we complete an acquisition, the following factors could result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results and may adversely affect our cash flows: costs incurred to combine the operations of companies we acquire, such as transitional employee expenses and employee retention, redeployment or relocation expenses; impairment of goodwill or intangible assets, including acquired in-process research and development; amortization of intangible assets acquired; a reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired; identification of or changes to assumed contingent liabilities, including, but not limited to, contingent purchase price consideration including fair value adjustments, income tax contingencies and other non-income tax contingencies, after our final determination of the amounts for these contingencies or the conclusion of the measurement period (generally up to one year from the acquisition date), whichever comes first; charges to our operating results to eliminate certain duplicative pre-acquisition activities, to restructure our operations or to reduce our cost structure; and charges to our operating results resulting from expenses incurred to effect the acquisition. a significant portion of these adjustments could be accounted for as expenses that will decrease our net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those costs are incurred. such charges could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. the significant and increasing amount of intangible assets and goodwill recorded on our balance sheet, mainly related to acquisitions, may lead to significant impairment charges in the future which could lead us to have to take significant charges against earnings. 32 table of contents we regularly review our long-lived assets, including identifiable intangible assets and goodwill, for impairment. goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are subject to impairment assessment at least annually. other long-lived assets are reviewed when there is an indication that an impairment may have occurred. the amount of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheets has increased significantly as a result of our acquisitions and other transactions, including meda, and may increase further following future potential acquisitions. in addition, we may from time to time sell assets that we determine are not critical to our strategy or execution. future events or decisions may lead to asset impairments and/or related charges. certain non-cash impairments may result from a change in our strategic goals, business direction or other factors relating to the overall business environment. any impairment of the value of goodwill or other intangible assets will result in a charge against earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, shareholder's equity, and/or ordinary share price. the pharmaceutical industry is heavily regulated and we face significant costs and uncertainties associated with our efforts to comply with applicable laws and regulations. the pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by various governmental authorities. for instance, we must comply with applicable laws and requirements of the fda and other regulatory agencies, including foreign authorities, in our other markets with respect to the research, development, manufacture, quality, safety, effectiveness, approval, labeling, tracking, tracing, authentication, storage, record-keeping, reporting, pharmacovigilance, sale, distribution, import, export, marketing, advertising, and promotion of pharmaceutical products. failure to comply with regulations of the fda and other u.s. and foreign regulators could result in a range of consequences, including, but not limited to, fines, penalties, disgorgement, unanticipated compliance expenditures, suspension of review of applications or other submissions, rejection or delay in approval of applications, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, our inability to sell products, the return by customers of our products, injunctions, and/or criminal prosecution. under certain circumstances, a regulator may also have the authority to revoke or vary previously granted drug approvals. the safety profile of any product will continue to be closely monitored by the fda and comparable foreign regulatory authorities after approval. if the fda or comparable foreign regulatory authorities become aware of new safety information about any of our marketed or investigational products, those authorities may require labeling changes, establishment of a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy or similar strategy, restrictions on a product's indicated uses or marketing, or post-approval studies or post-market surveillance. in addition, we are subject to regulations in various jurisdictions, including the federal drug supply chain security act in the u.s., the falsified medicines directive in the eu and a dozen other such regulations in other countries that require us to develop electronic systems to serialize, track, trace and authenticate units of our products through the supply chain and distribution system. compliance with these regulations may result in increased expenses for us or impose greater administrative burdens on our organization, and failure to meet these requirements could result in fines or other penalties. the fda and comparable regulatory authorities also regulate the facilities and operational procedures that we use to manufacture our products. we must register our facilities with the fda and similar regulators in other countries. products must be manufactured in our facilities in accordance with cgmp or similar standards in each territory in which we manufacture. compliance with such regulations requires substantial expenditures of time, money, and effort in multiple areas, including training of personnel, record-keeping, production, and quality control and quality assurance. the fda and other regulatory authorities, including foreign authorities, periodically inspect our manufacturing facilities for compliance with cgmp or similar standards in the applicable territory. regulatory approval to manufacture a drug is granted on a site-specific basis. failure to comply with cgmp and other regulatory standards at one of our or our partners' or suppliers' manufacturing facilities could result in an adverse action brought by the fda or other regulatory authorities, which could result in a receipt of an untitled or warning letter, fines, penalties, disgorgement, unanticipated compliance expenditures, rejection or delay in approval of applications, suspension of review of applications or other submissions, suspension of ongoing clinical trials, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, our inability to sell products, the return by customers of our products, orders to suspend, vary, or withdraw marketing authorizations, injunctions, consent decrees, requirements to modify promotional materials or issue corrective information to healthcare practitioners, refusal to permit import or export, criminal prosecution and/or other adverse actions. if any regulatory body were to delay, withhold, or withdraw approval of an application; require a recall or other adverse product action; require one of our manufacturing facilities to cease or limit production; or suspend, vary, or withdraw related marketing authorization, our business could be adversely affected. delay and cost in obtaining fda or other regulatory approval to manufacture at a different facility also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. 33 table of contents although we have established internal regulatory compliance programs and policies, there is no guarantee that these programs and policies, as currently designed, will meet regulatory agency standards in the future or will prevent instances of non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations. additionally, despite efforts at compliance, from time to time we or our partners receive notices of manufacturing and quality-related observations following inspections by regulatory authorities around the world, as well as official agency correspondence regarding compliance. we or our partners may receive similar observations and correspondence in the future. if we are unable to resolve these observations and address regulator's concerns in a timely fashion, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price could be materially affected. we utilize controlled substances in certain of our current products and products in development, and therefore must meet the requirements of the controlled substances act of 1970 and the related regulations administered by the dea in the u.s., as well as those of similar laws in other countries where we operate. these laws relate to the manufacture, shipment, storage, sale, and use of controlled substances. the dea and other regulatory agencies limit the availability of the controlled substances used in certain of our current products and products in development and, as a result, our procurement quota of these active ingredients may not be sufficient to meet commercial demand or complete clinical trials. we must annually apply to the dea and similar regulatory agencies for procurement quotas in order to obtain these substances. any delay or refusal by the dea or such similar agencies in establishing our procurement quota for controlled substances could delay or stop our clinical trials or product launches, or could cause trade inventory disruptions for those products that have already been launched, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. the use of legal, regulatory, and legislative strategies by both brand and generic competitors, including but not limited to authorized generics and regulatory petitions, as well as the potential impact of proposed and newly enacted legislation, may increase costs associated with the introduction or marketing of our generic products, could delay or prevent such introduction, and could significantly reduce our revenue and profit. our competitors, both branded and generic, often pursue strategies to prevent, delay, or eliminate competition from generic alternatives to branded products. these strategies include, but are not limited to: entering into agreements whereby other generic companies will begin to market an authorized generic, a generic equivalent of a branded product, at the same time or after generic competition initially enters the market; launching a generic version of their own branded product prior to or at the same time or after generic competition initially enters the market or pricing the branded product at a discount equivalent to generic pricing; filing petitions with the fda or other regulatory bodies seeking to prevent or delay approvals, including timing the filings so as to thwart generic competition by causing delays of our product approvals; seeking to establish regulatory and legal obstacles that would make it more difficult to demonstrate bioequivalence or to meet other requirements for approval, and/or to prevent regulatory agency review of applications, such as through the establishment of patent linkage (laws and regulations barring the issuance of regulatory approvals prior to patent expiration); initiating legislative or other efforts to limit the substitution of generic versions of brand pharmaceuticals; filing suits for patent infringement and other claims that may delay or prevent regulatory approval, manufacture, and/or sale of generic products; introducing next-generation products prior to the expiration of market exclusivity for the reference product, which often materially reduces the demand for the generic or the reference product for which we seek regulatory approval; persuading regulatory bodies to withdraw the approval of brand name drugs for which the patents are about to expire and converting the market to another product of the brand company on which longer patent protection exists; obtaining extensions of market exclusivity by conducting clinical trials of brand drugs in pediatric populations or by other methods; and seeking to obtain new patents on drugs for which patent protection is about to expire. 34 table of contents in the u.s., some companies have lobbied congress for amendments to the hatch-waxman act that would give them additional advantages over generic competitors. for example, although the term of a company's drug patent can be extended to reflect a portion of the time an nda is under regulatory review, some companies have proposed extending the patent term by a full year for each year spent in clinical trials rather than the one-half year that is currently permitted. if proposals like these in the u.s., europe, or in other countries where we or our partners and suppliers operate were to become effective, or if any other actions by our competitors and other third parties to prevent or delay activities necessary to the approval, manufacture, or distribution of our products are successful, our entry into the market and our ability to generate revenues associated with new products may be delayed, reduced, or eliminated, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. if we are unable to successfully introduce new products in a timely manner, our future revenue and profitability may be adversely affected. our future revenues and profitability will depend, in part, upon our ability to successfully and timely develop, license, or otherwise acquire and commercialize new generic products as well as branded pharmaceutical products protected by patent or statutory authority. product development is inherently risky, especially for new drugs for which safety and efficacy have not been established and/or the market is not yet proven as well as for complex generic drugs and biosimilars. likewise, product licensing involves inherent risks, including, among others, uncertainties due to matters that may affect the achievement of milestones, as well as the possibility of contractual disagreements with regard to whether the supply of product meets certain specifications or terms such as license scope or termination rights. the development and commercialization process, particularly with regard to new and complex drugs, also requires substantial time, effort and financial resources. we, or a partner, may not be successful in commercializing any of such products on a timely basis, or at all, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. before any prescription drug product, including generic drug products, can be marketed, marketing authorization approval is required by the relevant regulatory authorities and/or national regulatory agencies (for example, the fda in the u.s. and the ema in the eu). the process of obtaining regulatory approval to manufacture and market new branded and generic pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time consuming, costly, and inherently unpredictable. the eu has decided to move the headquarters of the ema from the uk to the netherlands by march 2019, which raises the possibility that any existing and/or new regulatory approval applications, whether for existing or new drug products, in the eu could be delayed as a result. a delay in regulatory approval could impact the commercial or financial success of a product. outside the u.s., the approval process may be more or less rigorous, depending on the country, and the time required for approval may be longer or shorter than that required in the u.s. bioequivalence, clinical, or other studies conducted in one country may not be accepted in other countries, the requirements for approval may differ among countries, and the approval of a pharmaceutical product in one country does not necessarily mean that the product will be approved in another country. we, or a partner or supplier, may be unable to obtain requisite approvals on a timely basis, or at all, for new products that we may develop, license or otherwise acquire. moreover, if we obtain regulatory approval for a drug, it may be limited, for example, with respect to the indicated uses and delivery methods for which the drug may be marketed, or may include warnings, precautions or contraindications in the labeling, which could restrict our potential market for the drug. a regulatory approval may also include post-approval study or risk management requirements that may substantially increase the resources required to market the drug. also, for products pending approval, we may obtain raw materials or produce batches of inventory to be used in efficacy and bioequivalence testing, as well as in anticipation of the product's launch. in the event that regulatory approval is denied or delayed, we could be exposed to the risk of this inventory becoming obsolete. the approval process for generic pharmaceutical products often results in the relevant regulatory agency granting final approval to a number of generic pharmaceutical products at the time a patent claim for a corresponding branded product or other market exclusivity expires. this often forces us to face immediate competition when we introduce a generic product into the market. additionally, further generic approvals often continue to be granted for a given product subsequent to the initial launch of the generic product. these circumstances generally result in significantly lower prices, as well as reduced margins, for generic products compared to branded products. new generic market entrants generally cause continued price, margin, and sales erosion over the generic product life cycle. in the u.s., the hatch-waxman act provides for a period of 180 days of generic marketing exclusivity for a first applicant, that is the first submitted anda containing a certification of invalidity, non-infringement or unenforceability related to a patent listed with the anda's reference drug product, commonly referred to as a paragraph iv certification. during this exclusivity period, which under certain circumstances may be shared with other andas filed on the same day, the fda cannot grant final approval to later-submitted andas for the same generic equivalent. if an anda is awarded 180-day 35 table of contents exclusivity, the applicant generally enjoys higher market share, net revenues, and gross margin for that generic product. however, our ability to obtain 180 days of generic marketing exclusivity may be dependent upon our ability to obtain fda approval or tentative approval within an applicable time period of the fda's acceptance of our anda. if we are unable to obtain approval or tentative approval within that time period, we may risk forfeiture of such marketing exclusivity. by contrast, if we are not a first applicant to challenge a listed patent for such a product, we may lose significant advantages to a competitor with 180-day exclusivity, even if we obtain fda approval for our generic drug product. the same would be true in situations where we are required to share our exclusivity period with other anda sponsors with paragraph iv certifications. in the eu and other countries and regions, there is no exclusivity period for the first generic product. the european commission or national regulatory agencies may grant marketing authorizations to any number of generics. if we are unable to navigate our products through the approval process in a timely manner, there could be an adverse effect on our product introduction plans, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we expend a significant amount of resources on r&amp;d efforts that may not lead to successful product introductions. much of our development effort is focused on technically difficult-to-formulate products and/or products that require advanced manufacturing technology, including our biosimilars program and respiratory platform. we conduct r&amp;d primarily to enable us to gain approval for, manufacture, and market pharmaceuticals in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. we also partner with third parties to develop products. typically, research expenses related to the development of innovative or complex compounds and the filing of marketing authorization applications for innovative and complex compounds (such as ndas and biosimilar applications in the u.s.) are significantly greater than those expenses associated with the development of and filing of marketing authorization applications for most generic products (such as andas in the u.s. and abridged applications in europe). as we and our partners continue to develop new and/or complex products, our research expenses will likely increase. because of the inherent risk associated with r&amp;d efforts in our industry, including the high cost and uncertainty of conducting clinical trials (where required) particularly with respect to new and/or complex drugs, our, or a partner's, research and development expenditures may not result in the successful introduction of new pharmaceutical products approved by the relevant regulatory bodies. also, after we submit a marketing authorization application for a new compound or generic product, the relevant regulatory authority may change standards and/or request that we conduct additional studies or evaluations and, as a result, we may incur approval delays as well as r&amp;d costs in excess of what we anticipated. clinical testing is expensive and can take many years to complete, and its outcome is inherently uncertain. failure can occur at any time during the clinical trial process. we or our partners may experience delays in our ongoing or future clinical trials, and we do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin or enroll subjects on time, need to be redesigned, or be completed on schedule, if at all. clinical trials may be delayed, suspended or prematurely terminated for a variety of reasons. if we experience delays in the completion of, or the termination of, any clinical trial of our product candidates, the commercial prospects of our product candidates will be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues from any of these product candidates will be delayed. in addition, any delays in completing our clinical trials will increase our costs, slow down our product candidate development and approval process, and jeopardize our ability to commence product sales and generate revenues. any of these occurrences may harm our business, financial condition and prospects significantly. in addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of our product candidates. finally, we cannot be certain that any investment made in developing products will be recovered, even if we are successful in commercialization. to the extent that we expend significant resources on r&amp;d efforts and are not able, ultimately, to introduce successful new and/or complex products as a result of those efforts, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. even if our products in development receive regulatory approval, such products may not achieve expected levels of market acceptance. 36 table of contents even if we are able to obtain regulatory approvals for our new generic or branded pharmaceutical products, the success of those products is dependent upon market acceptance. levels of market acceptance for our products could be impacted by several factors, including but not limited to: the availability, perceived advantages, and relative safety and efficacy of alternative products from our competitors; the degree to which the approved labeling supports promotional initiatives for commercial success; the prices of our products relative to those of our competitors; the timing of our market entry; and the effectiveness of our marketing, sales, and distribution strategy and operations; and other competitor actions. additionally, studies of the proper utilization, safety, and efficacy of pharmaceutical products are being conducted by the industry, government agencies, and others. such studies, which increasingly employ sophisticated methods and techniques, can call into question the utilization, safety, and efficacy of previously marketed as well as future products. in some cases, such studies have resulted, and may in the future result, in the discontinuation or variation of product marketing authorizations or requirements for risk management programs, such as a patient registry. any of these events could adversely affect our profitability, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. the development, approval process, manufacture and commercialization of biosimilar products involve unique challenges and uncertainties, and our failure to successfully introduce biosimilar products could have a negative impact on our business and future operating results. we and our partners and suppliers are actively working to develop and commercialize biosimilar products - that is, a biological product that is highly similar to an already approved reference biological product, and for which there are no clinically meaningful differences between the biosimilar and the reference biological product in terms of safety, purity and potency. although the biologics price competition and innovation act of 2009 established a framework for the review and approval of biosimilar products and the fda has begun to review and approve biosimilar product applications, there continues to be significant uncertainty regarding the regulatory pathway in the u.s. and in other countries to obtain approval for biosimilar products. there is also uncertainty regarding the commercial pathway to successfully market and sell such products. moreover, biosimilar products will likely be subject to extensive patent clearances and patent infringement litigation, which could delay or prevent the commercial launch of a biosimilar product for many years. if we are unable to obtain fda or other non-u.s. regulatory authority approval for our products, we will be unable to market them. even if our biosimilar products are approved for marketing, the products may not be commercially successful and may not generate profits in amounts that are sufficient to offset the amount invested to obtain such approvals. market success of biosimilar products will depend on demonstrating to regulators, patients, physicians and payors (such as insurance companies) that such products are safe and effective yet offer a more competitive price or other benefit over existing therapies. in addition, the development and manufacture of biosimilars pose unique challenges related to the supply of the materials needed to manufacture biosimilars. access to and the supply of necessary biological materials may be limited, and government regulations restrict access to and regulate the transport and use of such materials. we may not be able to generate future sales of biosimilar products in certain jurisdictions and may not realize the anticipated benefits of our investments in the development, manufacture and sale of such products. if our development efforts do not result in the development and timely approval of biosimilar products or if such products, once developed and approved, are not commercially successful, or upon the occurrence of any of the above risks, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price could be materially adversely affected. our business is highly dependent upon market perceptions of us, our brands, and the safety and quality of our products, and may be adversely impacted by negative publicity or findings. market perceptions of us are very important to our business, especially market perceptions of our company and brands and the safety and quality of our products. if we, our partners and suppliers, or our brands suffer from negative publicity, or if any of our products or similar products which other companies distribute are subject to market withdrawal or recall or are proven to be, or are claimed to be, ineffective or harmful to consumers, then this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. also, because we are dependent on market perceptions, negative publicity associated with product quality, patient illness, or other adverse effects resulting from, or 37 table of contents perceived to be resulting from, our products, or our partners' and suppliers' manufacturing facilities, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. the illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit versions of our products or of diverted or stolen products could have a negative impact on our reputation and our business. the pharmaceutical drug supply has been increasingly challenged by the vulnerability of distribution channels to illegal counterfeiting and the presence of counterfeit products in a growing number of markets and over the internet. third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit versions of our products that do not meet the rigorous manufacturing and testing standards that our products undergo. counterfeit products are frequently unsafe or ineffective, and can be potentially life-threatening. counterfeit medicines may contain harmful substances, the wrong dose of api or no api at all. however, to distributors and users, counterfeit products may be visually indistinguishable from the authentic version. reports of adverse reactions to counterfeit drugs or increased levels of counterfeiting could materially affect patient confidence in the authentic product. it is possible that adverse events caused by unsafe counterfeit products will mistakenly be attributed to the authentic product. in addition, unauthorized diversions of products or thefts of inventory at warehouses, plants, or while in-transit, which are not properly stored and which are sold through unauthorized channels, could adversely impact patient safety, our reputation, and our business. public loss of confidence in the integrity of pharmaceutical products as a result of counterfeiting, diversion, or theft could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. our competitors, including branded pharmaceutical companies, and/or other third parties, may allege that we and/or our suppliers are infringing upon their intellectual property, including in an at risk launch situation, which could result in substantial penalties, impact our ability to launch a product and/or our ability to continue marketing a product, and/or force us to expend substantial resources in resulting litigation, the outcome of which is uncertain. companies that produce branded pharmaceutical products and other patent holders routinely bring litigation against entities selling or seeking regulatory approval to manufacture and market generic forms of their branded products, as well as other entities involved in the manufacture, supply, and other aspects relating to active pharmaceutical ingredients and finished pharmaceutical products. these companies and other patent holders may allege patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights as the basis for filing suit against an applicant for a generic product as well as others who may be involved in some aspect of the research, production, distribution, or testing process. litigation often involves significant expense and can delay or prevent introduction or sale of our generic products. if patents are held valid and infringed by our products in a particular jurisdiction, we and/or our supplier(s) or partner(s) may, unless we or the supplier(s) or partner(s) could obtain a license from the patent holder, need to cease manufacturing and other activities, including but not limited to selling in that jurisdiction. we may also need to pay damages, surrender or withdraw the product, or destroy existing stock in that jurisdiction. there also may be situations, including, for example, the decision to launch our 40mg/ml glatiramer acetate product, where we use our business judgment and decide to manufacture, market, and/or sell products, directly or through third parties, notwithstanding the fact that allegations of patent infringement(s) and other third party rights have not been finally resolved by the courts (i.e., an at-risk launch ). the risk involved in doing so can be substantial because the remedies available to the owner of a patent for infringement may include, among other things, a reasonable royalty on sales, damages measured by the profits lost by the patent holder, or by profits earned by the infringer. if there is a finding by a court of willful infringement, the definition of which is subjective, such damages may be increased by up to three times. moreover, because of the discount pricing typically involved with bioequivalent products, patented branded products generally realize a substantially higher profit margin than bioequivalent products. an adverse decision in a case such as this, or a judicial order preventing us or our suppliers and partners from manufacturing, marketing, selling, and/or other activities necessary to the manufacture and distribution of our products, could result in substantial penalties, and/or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. 38 table of contents if we or any partner or supplier fail to obtain or adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, then we could lose revenue under our licensing agreements or lose sales to generic copies of our branded products. our success depends in part on our or any partner's or supplier's ability to obtain, maintain and enforce patents, and protect trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, and other intellectual property and proprietary information. our ability to commercialize any branded product successfully will largely depend upon our or any partner's or supplier's ability to obtain and maintain patents and trademarks of sufficient scope to lawfully prevent third-parties from developing and/or marketing infringing products. in the absence of intellectual property or other protection, competitors may adversely affect our branded products business by independently developing and/or marketing substantially equivalent products. it is also possible that we could incur substantial costs if we are required to initiate litigation against others to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. we have filed patent applications covering the composition of, methods of making, and/or methods of using, our branded products and branded product candidates. we may not be issued patents based on patent applications already filed or that we file in the future. further, due to other factors that affect patentability, and if patents are issued, they may be insufficient in scope to cover or otherwise protect our branded products. patents are national in scope and therefore the issuance of a patent in one country does not ensure the issuance of a patent in any other country. furthermore, the patent position of companies in the pharmaceutical industry generally involves complex legal and factual questions and has been and remains the subject of significant litigation. legal standards relating to scope and validity of patent claims are evolving and may differ in various countries. any patents we have obtained, or obtain in the future, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. moreover, the u.s. patent and trademark office or any other governmental agency may commence opposition or interference proceedings involving, or consider other challenges to, our patents or patent applications. in addition, branded products often have market viability based upon the goodwill of the product name, which typically benefits from trademark protection. our branded products may therefore also be subject to risks related to the loss of trademark or patent protection or to competition from generic or other branded products. challenges can come from other businesses or governments, and governments could require compulsory licensing of this intellectual property. any challenge to, or invalidation or circumvention of, our intellectual property (including patents or patent applications and trademark protection) would be costly, would require significant time and attention of our management, and could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we face vigorous competition that threatens the commercial acceptance and pricing of our products. the pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. we face competition from other pharmaceutical manufacturers globally, some of whom are significantly larger than we are. our competitors may be able to develop products and processes competitive with or superior to our own for many reasons, including but not limited to the possibility that they may have: proprietary processes or delivery systems; larger or more productive r&amp;d and marketing staff; larger or more efficient production capabilities in a particular therapeutic area; more experience in preclinical testing and human clinical trials; more products; or more experience in developing new drugs and greater financial resources, particularly with regard to manufacturers of branded products. the occurrence of any of the above risks could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we also face increasing competition from lower-cost generic products and other branded products. certain of our products are not protected by patent rights or have limited patent life and will soon lose patent protection. loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by the introduction of generic substitutes. as a result, sales of many of these products may decline or stop growing over time. various factors may result in the sales of certain of our products, particularly those acquired in the meda transaction and the epd transaction, declining faster than has been projected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. in addition, legislative proposals emerge from time to time in various jurisdictions to further encourage the early 39 table of contents and rapid approval of generic drugs. any such proposal that is enacted into law could increase competition and worsen this negative effect on our sales and, potentially, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or ordinary share price. competitors' products may also be safer, more effective, more effectively marketed or sold, or have lower prices or better performance features than ours. we cannot predict with certainty the timing or impact of competitors' products. in addition, our sales may suffer as a result of changes in consumer demand for our products, including those related to fluctuations in consumer buying patterns tied to seasonality, importation by consumers or the introduction of new products by competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. a relatively small group of products may represent a significant portion of our revenues, gross profit, net sales, or net earnings from time to time. sales of a limited number of our products from time to time represent a significant portion of our revenues, gross profit, and net earnings. for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, mylan's top ten products in terms of sales, in the aggregate, represented approximately 21% and 27%, respectively, of the company's third party net sales. if the volume or pricing of our largest selling products declines in the future, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price could be materially adversely affected. a significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales to a limited number of customers. a significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales to a limited number of customers. if we were to experience a significant reduction in or loss of business with one or more such customers, or if one or more such customers were to experience difficulty in paying us on a timely basis, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price could be materially adversely affected. in addition, a significant amount of our sales are to a relatively small number of drug wholesalers and retail drug chains. these customers represent an essential part of the distribution chain of generic pharmaceutical products. drug wholesalers and retail drug chains have undergone, and are continuing to undergo, significant consolidation. this consolidation has resulted in these groups gaining additional purchasing leverage and, consequently, increasing the product pricing pressures facing our business. we expect this trend of increased pricing pressures to continue. additionally, the emergence of large buying groups representing independent retail pharmacies and the prevalence and influence of managed care organizations and similar institutions increases the negotiating power of these groups, enabling them to attempt to extract price discounts, rebates, and other restrictive pricing terms on our products. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. during the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, mylan's consolidated third party net sales to cardinal health, inc. were approximately 10%, 11% and 12%, respectively; mylan's consolidated third party net sales to mckesson corporation were approximately 13%, 16%, and 15%, respectively; and mylan's consolidated third party net sales to amerisourcebergen corporation were approximately 8%, 14% and 16%, respectively, of consolidated third party net sales. our business could be negatively affected by the performance of our third_party collaboration partners. we have entered into strategic alliances with partners to develop, manufacture, market and/or distribute certain products, and/or certain components of our products, in various markets. we commit substantial effort, funds and other resources to these various collaborations. there is a risk that the investments made by us in these collaborative arrangements will not generate financial returns. while we believe our relationships with our partners generally are successful, disputes or conflicting priorities and regulatory or legal intervention could be a source of delay or uncertainty as to the expected benefits of the collaboration. a failure or inability of our partners to fulfill their collaboration obligations, or the occurrence of any of the risks above, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. the supply of api into europe may be negatively affected by recent regulations promulgated by the eu. all api imported into the eu has needed to be certified as complying with the good manufacturing practice standards established by the eu laws and guidance, as stipulated by the international conference for harmonization. these regulations place the certification requirement on the regulatory bodies of the exporting countries. accordingly, the national regulatory 40 table of contents authorities of each exporting country must: (i) ensure that all manufacturing plants within their borders that export api into the eu comply with eu manufacturing standards and (ii) for each api exported, present a written document confirming that the exporting plant conforms to eu manufacturing standards. the imposition of this responsibility on the governments of the nations exporting an api may cause delays in delivery or shortages of an api necessary to manufacture our products, as certain governments may not be willing or able to comply with the regulation in a timely fashion, or at all. a shortage in api may prevent us from manufacturing, or cause us to have to cease manufacture of, certain products, or to incur costs and delays to qualify other suppliers to substitute for those api manufacturers unable to export. the occurrence of any of the above risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we have a limited number of manufacturing facilities and certain third party suppliers produce a substantial portion of our api and products, some of which require a highly exacting and complex manufacturing process. a substantial portion of our capacity, as well as our current production, is attributable to a limited number of manufacturing facilities and certain third-party suppliers. a significant disruption at any one of such facilities within our internal or third party supply chain, even on a short-term basis, whether due to the failure of a third-party supplier to fulfill the terms of their agreement with us, labor disruption, adverse quality or compliance observation, other regulatory action, infringement of intellectual property rights, act of god, civil or political unrest, export or import restrictions, or other events could impair our ability to produce and ship products to the market on a timely basis and could, among other consequences, subject us to exposure to claims from customers. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we purchase certain api and other materials and supplies that we use in our manufacturing operations, as well as certain finished products, from many different foreign and domestic suppliers. the price of api and other materials and supplies is subject to volatility, and in certain cases, we have listed only one supplier in our applications with regulatory agencies. there is no guarantee that we will always have timely, sufficient or affordable access to critical raw materials or finished product supplied by third parties, even when we have more than one supplier. an increase in the price, or an interruption in the supply, of a single-sourced or any other raw material, including the relevant api, or in the supply of finished product, could cause our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price to be materially adversely affected. our manufacturing and supply capabilities could be adversely impacted by quality deficiencies in the products which our suppliers provide, or at their manufacturing facilities. in addition, the manufacture of some of our products is a highly exacting and complex process, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. problems may arise during manufacturing at our or our third party suppliers facilities for a variety of reasons, including, among others, equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials, natural disasters, power outages, labor unrest, and environmental factors. if problems arise during the production of a batch of product, that batch of product may have to be discarded. this could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, damage to customer relations, time and expense spent investigating the cause, and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other batches or products. if problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, recall and product liability costs may also be incurred. if we or one of our suppliers experience any of the problems described above, such problems could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. our reporting and payment obligations related to our participation in u.s. federal healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid and the department of veterans affairs (the va ), are complex and often involve subjective decisions that could change as a result of new business circumstances, new regulations or agency guidance, or advice of legal counsel. any failure to comply with those obligations could subject us to investigation, penalties, and sanctions. federal laws regarding reporting and payment obligations with respect to a pharmaceutical company's participation in federal healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid and the va, are complex. because our processes for calculating applicable government prices and the judgments involved in making these calculations involve subjective decisions and complex methodologies, these calculations are subject to risk of errors and differing interpretations. in addition, they are subject to review and challenge by the applicable governmental agencies, and it is possible that such reviews could result in changes that may have material adverse legal, regulatory, or economic consequences. 41 table of contents pharmaceutical manufacturers that participate in the medicaid drug rebate program, such as mylan, are required to report certain pricing data to the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services ( cms ), the federal agency that administers the medicare and medicaid programs. this data includes the average manufacturer price ( amp ) for each of the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs. cms calculates a type of u.s. federal ceiling on reimbursement rates to pharmacies for multiple source drugs under the medicaid program, known as the federal upper limit ( ful ). since april 2016, cms is required to use the weighted average amp for pharmaceutically and therapeutically equivalent multiple source drugs to calculate fuls, instead of the other pricing data cms previously used. although weighted average amp-based fuls do not reveal mylan's individual amp, publishing a weighted average amp available to customers and the public at large could negatively affect our commercial price negotiations. in addition, a number of state and federal government agencies are conducting investigations of manufacturers' reporting practices with respect to average wholesale prices ( awp ). the government has alleged that reporting of inflated awp has led to excessive payments for prescription drugs, and we may be named as a defendant in actions relating to pharmaceutical pricing issues and whether allegedly improper actions by pharmaceutical manufacturers led to excessive payments by medicare, medicaid and/or the va. any governmental agencies or authorities that have commenced, or may commence, an investigation of us relating to the sales, marketing, pricing, quality, or manufacturing of pharmaceutical products could seek to impose, based on a claim of violation of anti-fraud and false claims laws or otherwise, civil and/or criminal sanctions, including fines, penalties, and possible exclusion from federal healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid and/or the va. some of the applicable laws may impose liability even in the absence of specific intent to defraud. furthermore, should there be ambiguity with regard to how to properly calculate and report payments - and even in the absence of any such ambiguity - a governmental authority may take a position contrary to a position we have taken, and may impose or pursue civil and/or criminal sanctions. governmental agencies may also make changes in program interpretations, requirements or conditions of participation, some of which may have implications for amounts previously estimated or paid. we cannot assure you that our submissions will not be found by cms or the va to be incomplete or incorrect. any failure to comply with the above laws and regulations, and any such penalties or sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we may experience reductions in the levels of reimbursement for pharmaceutical products by governmental authorities, hmos, or other third-party payors. in addition, the use of tender systems and other forms of price control, including legislative or regulatory programs impacting pharmaceutical prices, could reduce prices for our products or reduce our market opportunities. various governmental authorities (including, among others, the u.k. national health service and the german statutory health insurance scheme) and private health insurers and other organizations, such as hmos in the u.s., provide reimbursements or subsidies to consumers for the cost of certain pharmaceutical products. demand for our products depends in part on the extent to which such reimbursement is available. in the u.s., third-party payors increasingly challenge the pricing of pharmaceutical products. these trends and other trends toward the growth of hmos, managed healthcare, and legislative healthcare reform create significant uncertainties regarding the future levels of reimbursement for pharmaceutical products. further, any reimbursement may be reduced in the future to the point that market demand for our products and/or our profitability declines. such a decline could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. in addition, current or future u.s. federal, u.s. state or other countries' laws and regulations may influence the prices of drugs and, therefore, could adversely affect the payments we receive for our products. for example, existing programs in certain states in the u.s. seek to broadly set prices within those states through the regulation and administration of the sale of prescription drugs. expansion of these programs, and, in particular, changes to state medicare and/or medicaid programs, or changes required in the way in which medicare payment rates are set and/or the way medicaid rebates are calculated, could adversely affect the payment we receive for our products. in order to control expenditure on pharmaceuticals, most member states in the eu regulate the pricing of products and, in some cases, limit the range of different forms of pharmaceuticals available for prescription by national health services. these controls can result in considerable price differences between member states. several countries in which we operate have implemented, or plan to or may implement, government mandated price reductions and/or other controls. when such price controls occur, pharmaceutical companies have generally experienced significant declines in revenues and profitability and uncertainties continue to exist within the market after the price decrease. such price reductions or controls could have an adverse effect on our business, and as uncertainties are resolved or if other 42 table of contents countries in which we operate enact similar measures, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. a number of markets in which we operate have also implemented or may implement tender systems for generic pharmaceuticals in an effort to lower prices. under such tender systems, manufacturers submit bids which establish prices for generic pharmaceutical products. upon winning the tender, the winning company will receive a preferential reimbursement for a period of time. the tender system often results in companies underbidding one another by proposing low pricing in order to win the tender. certain other countries may consider the implementation of a tender system or other forms of price controls. even if a tender system is ultimately not implemented, the anticipation of such could result in price reductions. failing to win tenders, or the implementation of similar systems or other forms of price controls in other markets leading to further price declines, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. healthcare reform legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business. in recent years, there have been numerous initiatives on the federal and state levels for comprehensive reforms affecting the payment for, the availability of and reimbursement for, healthcare services in the u.s., and it is likely that congress and state legislatures and health agencies will continue to focus on healthcare reform in the future. the ppaca and the health care and education and reconciliation act of 2010 (h.r. 4872), which amends the ppaca (collectively, the health reform laws ), were signed into law in march 2010. while the health reform laws may increase the number of patients who have insurance coverage for our products, they also include provisions such as the assessment of a pharmaceutical manufacturer fee and an increase in the amount of rebates that manufacturers pay for coverage of their drugs by medicaid programs. we are unable to predict the future course of federal or state healthcare legislation. the health reform laws and further changes in the law or regulatory framework that reduce our revenues or increase our costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. additionally, we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. in the eu and some other international markets, the government provides healthcare at low cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices, patient eligibility and/or reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. these systems of price regulations may lead to inconsistent and lower prices. within the eu and in other countries, the availability of our products in some markets at lower prices undermines our sales in other markets with higher prices. additionally, certain countries set prices by reference to the prices in other countries where our products are marketed. thus, our inability to secure adequate prices in a particular country may also impair our ability to obtain acceptable prices in existing and potential new markets, and may create the opportunity for third party cross border trade. significant additional reforms to the u.s. healthcare system, or to the healthcare systems of other markets in which we operate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we are involved in various legal proceedings and certain government inquiries and may experience unfavorable outcomes of such proceedings or inquiries. we are or may be involved in various legal proceedings and certain government inquiries or investigations, including, but not limited to, patent infringement, product liability, antitrust matters, breach of contract, and claims involving medicare, medicaid and/or va reimbursements, or laws relating to sales, marketing, and pricing practices, some of which are described in our periodic reports, that involve claims for, or the possibility of, fines and penalties involving substantial amounts of money or other relief, including but not limited to civil or criminal fines and penalties and exclusion from participation in various government healthcare-related programs. with respect to government antitrust enforcement and private plaintiff litigation of so-called pay for delay patent settlements, large verdicts, settlements or government fines are possible, especially in the u.s. and eu. if any of these legal proceedings or inquiries were to result in an adverse outcome, the impact could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. with respect to product liability, we maintain a combination of self-insurance (including through our wholly owned captive insurance subsidiary) and commercial insurance to protect against and manage a portion of the risks involved in conducting our business. although we carry insurance, we believe that no reasonable amount of insurance can fully protect against all such risks because of the potential liability inherent in the business of producing pharmaceuticals for human consumption. emerging developments in the u.s. legal landscape relative to the liability of generic pharmaceutical 43 table of contents manufacturers for certain product liabilities claims could increase our exposure litigation costs and damages. to the extent that a loss occurs, depending on the nature of the loss and the level of insurance coverage maintained, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. in addition, in limited circumstances, entities that we have acquired are party to litigation in matters under which we are, or may be, entitled to indemnification by the previous owners. even in the case of indemnification, there are risks inherent in such indemnities and, accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will receive the full benefits of such indemnification, or that we will not experience an adverse result in a matter that is not indemnified, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. if we fail to comply with our corporate integrity agreement, we could be subject to substantial penalties and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. in august 2017, mylan inc. and mylan specialty l.p. entered into a corporate integrity agreement (the cia ) with the office of inspector general of the department of health and human services ( oig-hhs ). the cia has a five-year term and requires, among other things, enhancements to our compliance program, fulfillment of reporting and monitoring obligations, management certifications and resolutions from mylan inc.'s board, as well as that an independent review organization annually review various matters relating to the medicaid drug rebate program, among other things. if we fail to comply with the cia, the oig-hhs may impose substantial monetary penalties or exclude us from federal healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid or the va, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have a number of clean energy investments which are subject to various risks and uncertainties. we have invested in clean energy operations capable of producing refined coal that we believe qualify for tax credits under section 45 of the code. our ability to claim tax credits under section 45 of the code depends upon the operations in which we have invested satisfying certain ongoing conditions set forth in section 45 of the code. these include, among others, the emissions reduction, qualifying technology , and placed-in-service requirements of section 45 of the code, as well as the requirement that at least one of the operations' owners qualifies as a producer of refined coal. while we have received some degree of confirmation from the irs relating to our ability to claim these tax credits, the irs could ultimately determine that the operations have not satisfied, or have not continued to satisfy, the conditions set forth in section 45 of the code. in addition, the implementation of the tax act could limit mylan's ability to realize the benefit of these investments, or congress could modify or repeal section 45 of the code and remove the tax credits retroactively. in addition, section 45 of the code contains phase out provisions based upon the market price of coal, such that, if the price of coal rises to specified levels, we could lose some or all of the tax credits we expect to receive from these investments. finally, when the price of natural gas or oil declines relative to that of coal, some utilities may choose to burn natural gas or oil instead of coal. market demand for coal may also decline as a result of an economic slowdown and a corresponding decline in the use of electricity. if utilities burn less coal, eliminate coal in the production of electricity or are otherwise unable to operate for an extended period of time, the availability of the tax credits would also be reduced. during 2017, as a result of a decline in current and expected future production levels at certain of our clean energy facilities, the company impaired its investment balance and other assets. additional impairments could occur in the future. the occurrence of any of the above risks could limit the value of our investment, result in increased costs, materially increase our tax burden or adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we have significant indebtedness, which could lead to adverse consequences or adversely affect our financial position and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under such indebtedness, and any refinancing of this debt could be at significantly higher interest rates. our level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including but not limited to: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes; 44 table of contents limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, challenges and opportunities, and changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and debt service requirements and other financing needs; increasing our vulnerability to increases in interest rates in general because a substantial portion of our indebtedness bears interest at floating rates; and placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt. our ability to service our indebtedness will depend on our future operating performance and financial results, which will be subject, in part, to factors beyond our control, including interest rates and general economic, financial and business conditions. if we do not have sufficient cash flow to service our indebtedness, we may need to refinance all or part of our existing indebtedness, borrow more money or sell securities or assets, some or all of which may not be available to us at acceptable terms or at all. in addition, we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. although the terms of our credit agreements and our bond indentures allow us to incur additional debt, this is subject to certain limitations which may preclude us from incurring the amount of indebtedness we otherwise desire. in addition, although mylan expects to maintain an investment grade credit rating, a downgrade in the credit rating of mylan or any indebtedness of mylan or its subsidiaries could increase the cost of further borrowings or refinancings of such indebtedness, limit access to sources of financing in the future or lead to other adverse consequences. in addition, if we incur additional debt, the risks described above could intensify. if global credit markets contract, future debt financing may not be available to us when required or may not be available on acceptable terms or at all, and as a result we may be unable to grow our business, take advantage of business opportunities, respond to competitive pressures or satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness. any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. our credit facilities, senior unsecured notes, other outstanding indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we incur in the future impose, or may impose, significant operating and financial restrictions on us. these restrictions limit our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, make investments, pay certain dividends, prepay other indebtedness, sell assets, incur certain liens, enter into agreements with our affiliates or restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends, merge or consolidate. in addition, our credit facilities require us to maintain specified financial ratios. a breach of any of these covenants or our inability to maintain the required financial ratios could result in a default under the related indebtedness. if a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare our indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we enter into various agreements in the normal course of business that periodically incorporate provisions whereby we indemnify the other party to the agreement. in the normal course of business, we periodically enter into commercial, employment, legal settlement, and other agreements that incorporate indemnification provisions. in some, but not all, cases, we maintain insurance coverage that we believe will effectively mitigate our obligations under certain of these indemnification provisions. however, should our obligation under an indemnification provision exceed any applicable coverage or should coverage be denied, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price could be materially adversely affected. there are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with u.s. gaap. any future changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions used or necessary revisions to prior estimates, judgments or assumptions or changes in accounting standards could lead to a restatement or revision to previously issued financial statements. the consolidated and condensed consolidated financial statements included in the periodic reports we file with the sec are prepared in accordance with u.s. gaap. the preparation of financial statements in accordance with u.s. gaap involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to change in the future and any necessary revisions to prior estimates, judgments or assumptions could lead to a restatement. furthermore, although we have recorded reserves for litigation related contingencies based on estimates of probable future costs, such litigation related contingencies could result in 45 table of contents substantial further costs. also, any new or revised accounting standards may require adjustments to previously issued financial statements. any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. on august 17, 2017, the company announced that its subsidiaries, mylan inc. and mylan specialty l.p., signed an agreement with the u.s. department of justice ("doj") and two relators finalizing the $465 million settlement, plus interest, with the doj and other government agencies related to the classification of the epipen auto-injector for purposes of the medicaid drug rebate program that mylan had agreed to the terms of on october 7, 2016 (the medicaid drug rebate program settlement ). on april 25, 2017, mylan received a comment letter from the staff of the sec's division of corporation finance ( corporation finance ) with respect to mylan's annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2016, requesting information regarding mylan's accounting treatment of the $465 million medicaid drug rebate program settlement with the doj, including with respect to the determinations that the settlement amount should be recorded as a charge against earnings in the third quarter of 2016 rather than against any earlier periods, and that the settlement amount should be classified as an expense rather than a reduction of revenue. any of the changes discussed above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we must maintain adequate internal controls and be able to provide an assertion as to the effectiveness of such controls on an annual basis. effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports. we spend a substantial amount of management and other employee time and resources to comply with laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure. in the u.s., such regulations include the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, sec regulations and the nasdaq listing standards. in particular, section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 requires management's annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and attestation as to the effectiveness of these controls by our independent registered public accounting firm. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. additionally, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. in addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. our future success is highly dependent on our continued ability to attract and retain key personnel. loss of key personnel could lead to loss of customers, business disruption, and a decline in revenues, adversely affect the progress of pipeline products, or otherwise adversely affect our operations. it is important that we attract and retain qualified personnel in order to develop and commercialize new products, manage our business, and compete effectively. competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical industry is very intense. if we fail to attract and retain key scientific, technical, commercial, or management personnel, our business could be affected adversely. additionally, while we have employment agreements with certain key employees in place, their employment for the duration of the agreement is not guaranteed. current and prospective employees might also experience uncertainty about their future roles with us following the consummation and integration of our recent transactions, including the epd transaction and the meda transaction, and potential future transactions, which might adversely affect our ability to retain key managers and other employees. if we are unsuccessful in retaining our key employees or enforcing certain post-employment contractual provisions such as confidentiality or non-competition provisions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. our actual financial position and results of operations may differ materially from the unaudited pro forma financial information included in this annual report. the unaudited pro forma financial information contained in this annual report on form 10-k may not be indicative of what our financial position or results of operations would have been had the meda transaction and the epd transaction been completed on the dates indicated, nor are they indicative of the future operating results of mylan n.v. the unaudited pro forma 46 table of contents financial information has been derived from the historical consolidated financial statements of mylan n.v., mylan inc., meda, and the combined financial statements of the epd business and reflects certain adjustments related to past operating performance and acquisition accounting adjustments, such as increased amortization expense based on the fair value of assets acquired, the impact of transaction costs, and the related income tax effects. the information upon which these adjustments have been made is subjective, and these types of adjustments are difficult to make with complete accuracy. accordingly, the actual financial position and results of our operations following the meda transaction and the epd transaction may not be consistent with, or evident from, this unaudited pro forma financial information and other factors may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price, including, among others, those described herein. we are in the process of enhancing and further developing our global erp systems and associated business applications, which could result in business interruptions if we encounter difficulties. we are enhancing and further developing our global erp and other business critical it infrastructure systems and associated applications to provide more operating efficiencies and effective management of our business and financial operations. such changes to erp systems and related software, and other it infrastructure carry risks such as cost overruns, project delays and business interruptions and delays. if we experience a material business interruption as a result of our erp enhancements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. refer to management's report on internal control over financial reporting included in item 8 in this form 10-k. we are increasingly dependent on information technology and our systems and infrastructure face certain risks, including cybersecurity and data leakage risks. significant disruptions to our information technology systems or breaches of information security could adversely affect our business. we are increasingly dependent on sophisticated information technology systems and infrastructure to operate our business. we also have outsourced significant elements of our operations to third parties, some of which are outside the u.s., including significant elements of our information technology infrastructure, and as a result we are managing many independent vendor relationships with third parties who may or could have access to our confidential information. the size and complexity of our information technology systems, and those of our third-party vendors with whom we contract, make such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions. in addition, we and our vendors could be susceptible to third party attacks on our information technology systems. such attacks are increasingly sophisticated and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise, including state and quasi-state actors, criminal groups, hackers and others. any security breach or other disruption to our or our vendors' information technology infrastructure could also interfere with or disrupt our business operations, including our manufacturing, distribution, r&amp;d, sales and/or marketing activities. in the ordinary course of business, we and our vendors collect, store and transmit large amounts of confidential information (including trade secrets or other intellectual property, proprietary business information and personal information), and it is critical that we do so in a secure manner to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information. the size and complexity of our and our vendors' systems and the large amounts of confidential information that is present on them also makes them potentially vulnerable to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees, partners or vendors, or from attacks by malicious third parties. maintaining the security, confidentiality and integrity of this confidential information (including trade secrets or other intellectual property, proprietary, business information and personal information) is important to our competitive business position. however, such information can be difficult to protect. while we have taken steps to protect such information, and to ensure that the third-party vendors' on which we rely have taken adequate steps to protect such information, there can be no assurance that our or our vendors' efforts will prevent service interruptions or security breaches in our systems or the unauthorized or inadvertent wrongful use or disclosure of confidential information that could adversely affect our business operations or result in the loss, misappropriation, and/or unauthorized access, use or disclosure of, or the prevention of access to, confidential information. a breach of our or our vendors' security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure, unapproved dissemination, misappropriation or misuse of trade secrets, proprietary information, or other confidential information, whether as a result of theft, hacking, fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, or for any other cause, could enable others to produce competing products, use our proprietary technology or information, and/or adversely affect our business position. further, any such interruption, security breach, or loss, misappropriation, and/or unauthorized access, use or disclosure of confidential information, including personal information regarding our patients and employees, could result in financial, legal, business, and reputational harm to us and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. 47 table of contents we are subject to data privacy and security laws and regulations in many different jurisdictions and countries where we do business, and our or our vendors' failure to comply could result in fines, penalties, reputational damage, and could impact the way we operate our business. we are subject to laws and regulations governing the collection, use and transmission of personal information, including health information. as the legislative and regulatory landscape for data privacy and protection continues to evolve around the world, there has been an increasing focus on privacy and data protection issues that may affect our business, including the u.s.'s federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, as amended ( hipaa ), the eu's general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), and other laws and regulations described below. in the u.s., we may be subject to state security breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws and federal and state consumer protections laws which impose requirements for the collection, use, disclosure and transmission of personal information. each of these laws are subject to varying interpretations by courts and government agencies, creating complex compliance issues for us. if we, or the third-party vendors' on which we reply, fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations we could be subject to fines, penalties or sanctions, including criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain individually identifiable health information from a covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by hipaa or for aiding and abetting the violation of hipaa. in addition, eu member states and other jurisdictions have adopted data protection laws and regulations that impose significant compliance obligations. the ec's adoption of the 1995 eu data protection directive imposed significant compliance obligations. as implemented into national laws by the eu member states, the data protection directive imposes strict obligations and restrictions on the ability to collect, analyze, and transfer personal data, including health data from clinical trials and adverse event reporting. data protection authorities from different eu member states have interpreted the privacy laws differently, adding to the complexity of processing personal data in the eu, and guidance on implementation and compliance practices are often updated or otherwise revised. any failure to comply with the rules arising from the eu data protection directive and related national laws of eu member states could lead to government enforcement actions and significant penalties against us, and adversely impact our operating results. in 2016, the eu formally adopted gdpr, which will directly apply to and bind all eu member states from may 25, 2018 and will replace the current eu data protection directive on that date. the regulation introduces new data protection requirements in the eu and establishes a framework to govern data sharing and collection and related consumer privacy rights. compared to the current directive, the gdpr may result in greater compliance obligations, including the implementation of a number of processes and policies around our data collection and use. in addition, the gdpr includes significant new penalties for non-compliance, with fines up to the higher of 20 million or 4% of total annual worldwide revenue. in general, gdpr, and other local privacy laws, could also lead to adaptation of our technologies or practices to satisfy local privacy requirements and standards that may be more stringent than in the u.s. other countries in which we do business have, or are developing, laws governing the collection, use and transmission of personal information as well that may affect our business or require us to adapt our technologies or practices. these include canada and several latin american and asian countries, which have constitutional protections for, or have adopted legislation protecting, individuals' personal information. other countries, including australia and japan, have established specific legal requirements for cross-border transfers of personal information. some countries, including india, are considering legislation implementing data protection requirements or requiring local storage and processing of data or similar requirements. these and similar initiatives could increase the cost of developing, implementing or maintaining our it systems, require us to allocate more resources to compliance initiatives or increase our costs. in addition, a failure by us, or our third-party vendors, to comply with applicable data privacy and security laws could result in financial, legal, business, and reputational harm to us and could have a material adverse effect on the way we operate our business, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. the expansion of social media platforms presents new risks and challenges. the inappropriate use of certain social media vehicles could cause brand damage or information leakage or could lead to legal implications from the improper collection and/or dissemination of personally identifiable information or the improper dissemination of material non-public information. in addition, negative posts or comments about us on any social networking web site could seriously damage our reputation. further, the disclosure of non-public company sensitive information through external media channels could lead to information loss as there might not be structured processes in place to secure and protect information. if our non-public sensitive information is disclosed or if our reputation is seriously damaged through social media, 48 table of contents it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 82 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange risk a significant portion of our revenues and earnings are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we seek to manage this foreign exchange risk in part through operational means, including managing same currency revenues in relation to same currency costs and same currency assets in relation to same currency liabilities. from time to time, foreign exchange risk is managed through the use of foreign currency forward-exchange contracts. these contracts are used to offset the potential earnings effects from mostly intercompany foreign currency assets and liabilities that arise from operations and from intercompany loans. mylan 's primary areas of foreign exchange risk relative to the u.s. dollar are the euro, swedish krona, indian rupee, japanese yen, australian dollar, canadian dollar, pound sterling and brazilian real . any unhedged foreign exchange exposures continue to be subject to market fluctuations. our financial instrument holdings at year end were analyzed to determine their sensitivity to foreign exchange rate changes. the fair values of these instruments were determined as follows: foreign currency forward-exchange contracts net present values foreign currency denominated receivables, payables, debt and loans changes in exchange rates in this sensitivity analysis, we assumed that the change in one currency's rate relative to the u.s. dollar would not have an effect on other currencies' rates relative to the u.s. dollar. all other factors were held constant. if there were an adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates of 10% , the expected net effect on net income related to mylan 's foreign currency denominated financial instruments would not be material . the company is also exposed to translation risk on non-u.s. dollar-denominated net assets. non-u.s. dollar borrowings, principally our euro denominated long-term debt, are used to hedge the foreign currency exposures of our net investment in certain foreign affiliates and are designated as hedges of net investments. the effective portion of foreign exchange gains or losses on these hedges is included in the foreign currency translation component of accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss). if our net investment decreases below the equivalent value of the non-u.s. debt borrowings, the change in the remeasurement basis of the debt would be subject to recognition in income as changes occur. interest rate and long-term debt risk mylan 's exposure to interest rate risk arises primarily from our u.s. dollar and euro borrowings and u.s. dollar investments. we invest primarily on a variable-rate basis and we borrow on both a fixed and variable basis. in order to maintain a certain ratio of fixed to variable rate debt, from time to time, depending on market conditions, mylan will use derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps to fix interest rates on variable-rate borrowings or to convert fixed-rate borrowings to variable interest rates. as of december 31, 2017 , mylan 's long-term fixed rate borrowings consist principally of $12.1 billion notional amount of senior notes and euro notes. generally, the fair value of fixed interest rate debt will decrease as interest rates rise and increase as interest rates fall. as of december 31, 2017 , the fair value of our outstanding fixed rate senior notes and euro notes was approximately $14.9 billion . a 100 basis point change in interest rates on mylan 's variable rate debt, net of interest rate swaps, would result in a change in interest expense of approximately $21.0 million per year. 82 table of contentsrisk factors 14 risk factors . research and development mylan has a globally integrated r&amp;d platform that is fueling our growth by filling our pipeline. we believe r&amp;d always has been one of mylan's core strengths. our scientific affairs team, which includes researchers and regulatory and clinical experts, numbers more than 3,000 people who work collaboratively across our 12 different r&amp;d centers around the world, including 10 technology-focused development sites and 2 global r&amp;d centers. consistent with mylan's drive for durability, the allocation of our investments over the last several years has shifted away from commodity products, such as conventional oral solid dosage ( osd ) forms, to more complex or difficult-to-formulate products, such as biosimilars. 13 table of contents as a result, our product pipeline includes a variety of dosage forms. collectively, these investments represent more than 3,600 products under development or pending approval around the world. refer to the chart in the business segments section above for information pertaining to products in pipeline by major therapeutic area. collaboration and licensing agreements we periodically enter into collaboration and licensing agreements with other companies to develop, manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products. doing so helps us share risks and costs, leverage strengths and scale up commercialization. the result often is that medicines become available sooner and to a significantly larger group of patients. our significant agreements are primarily focused on the development, manufacture, supply and commercialization of multiple, high-value biosimilar compounds, insulin analog products and respiratory products. mylan's significant collaboration and licensing agreements include those with pfizer inc. ( pfizer ), momenta pharmaceuticals, inc. ( momenta ), theravance biopharma, inc. ( theravance biopharma ), biocon ltd. ( biocon ) and fujifilm kyowa kirin biologics co. ltd. refer to note 18 collaboration and licensing agreements included in item 8 in this annual report on form 10-k for more information. intellectual property mylan considers the protection of our intellectual property rights to be extremely valuable, and we act to protect them from infringement by third parties. we have an extensive trademark portfolio and routinely apply to register key brand-name, generic, branded generic, biosimilars and otc trade names in numerous countries around the world. our registered trademarks are renewable indefinitely, and these registrations are properly maintained in accordance with the laws of the countries in which they are registered. we also have an extensive patent portfolio and actively file for patent protection in various countries to protect our brand-name, generic, branded generic, biosimilars and otc products, including processes for making and using them. we have more than 4,500 patents filed globally. for additional information, see risk factors - we rely on the effectiveness of our patents, confidentiality agreements and other measures to protect our intellectual property rights . further, we have well-established safeguards in place to protect our proprietary know-how and trade secrets, both of which we consider extremely valuable to our intellectual property portfolio. we look for intellectual property licensing opportunities to or from third parties, related not only to our existing products, but as a means for expanding our product portfolio. we rely on the aforementioned types of intellectual property, as well as our copyrights, regulatory exclusivities and contractual protections, to establish a broad scope of intellectual property rights for our product portfolio. exchange act reports mylan maintains a website at mylan.com. we make available on or through it certain reports and associated amendments that the company files with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) in accordance with the securities exchange act of 1934 ( exchange act ). filings include our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports. we make this information available on our website free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. the contents of our website are not incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k and shall not be deemed filed under the exchange act. the sec also maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. item 1a. risk factors we operate in a complex and rapidly changing environment that involves risks, many of which are beyond our control. our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or share price could be materially affected by any of these 14 table of contents risks, if they occur, or by other factors not currently known to us, or not currently considered to be material. these risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, as well as our other filings with the sec. our risk factors are organized into four categories: strategic, operational, compliance and finance. strategic risks we do not anticipate paying dividends for the foreseeable future, and our shareholders must rely on increases in the trading price of our ordinary shares to obtain a return on their investment. mylan n.v. does not anticipate paying dividends in the immediate future. we anticipate that we will retain all earnings, if any, to support our operations and to opportunistically pursue additional transactions to deliver additional shareholder value. any future determination as to the payment of dividends will, subject to dutch law requirements, be at the sole discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our financial position, results of operations, capital requirements, and other factors our board of directors deems relevant at that time. holders of mylan n.v.'s ordinary shares must rely on increases in the trading price of their shares to obtain a return on their investment in the foreseeable future. the market price of our ordinary shares may be volatile, and the value of your investment could materially decline. investors who hold mylan n.v.'s ordinary shares may not be able to sell their shares at or above the price at which they purchased such shares. the share price of mylan n.v.'s ordinary shares fluctuates materially from time to time, including a significant decline throughout 2018, and we cannot predict the price of our ordinary shares at any given time. the risks described herein could cause the price of our ordinary shares to fluctuate materially. in addition, the stock market in general, including the market for pharmaceutical companies, has experienced price and volume fluctuations. these broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our operating performance. in addition, the price of our ordinary shares may be affected by the valuations and recommendations of the analysts who cover us, and if our results do not meet the analysts' forecasts and expectations, the price of our ordinary shares could decline as a result of analysts lowering their valuations and recommendations or otherwise. in the past, following periods of volatility in the market and/or in the price of a company's stock, securities class-action litigation has been instituted against us and other companies. such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management's attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we or our shareholders also may offer or sell our ordinary shares or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for ordinary shares. an increase in the number of ordinary shares issued and outstanding and the possibility of sales of ordinary shares or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for ordinary shares may depress the future trading price of our ordinary shares. in addition, if additional offerings occur, the voting power of our then existing shareholders may be diluted. our strategic initiatives may not achieve all intended benefits. there can be no assurance that our strategic initiatives will achieve their intended effects. we continually evaluate various strategic transactions and business arrangements, including acquisitions, asset purchases, partnerships, joint ventures, restructurings, divestitures, investments, market selection and market strategy on an ongoing basis. these transactions and arrangements may be material both from a strategic and financial perspective. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully complete the integration of acquired businesses or assets with mylan, or otherwise fully realize the expected benefits of any transactions or restructurings. furthermore, although our expectation is to engage in asset sales only if they advance or otherwise support our overall strategy, any such sale could reduce the size or scope of our business, our market share in particular markets or our opportunities with respect to certain markets, products or therapeutic categories. the difficulties of achieving the benefits of strategic initiatives include, among others: the diversion of management's attention to integration matters and restructuring activities; difficulties in achieving anticipated synergies, operating efficiencies, business opportunities, and growth prospects from restructurings or business or asset combinations within the expected timeframe or at all; difficulties in the integration of operations and information technology ( it ) applications, including enterprise resource planning ( erp ) systems; difficulties in the integration of employees; difficulties in managing the operations of a larger or more complex company; 15 table of contents challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; challenges in reducing reliance on transition services prior to the expiration of any period in which such services are provided by a transaction counterparty; difficulties in obtaining a favorable price for any divestiture, in a timely manner or at all; challenges in moving production facilities, including obtaining the consent of customers or regulatory authorities; operational or financial difficulties that would not have occurred if acquired companies, businesses, or assets continued operating in their former structures; challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel; and the complexities of managing relationships with transaction counterparties and other business partners, including service agreements, development and manufacturing relationships, and license arrangements. the overall execution of a strategic initiative, including the integration of a business or asset or restructuring activities, may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer relationships, and diversion of management's attention, among other potential adverse consequences, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we may be adversely affected by significant scrutiny from third parties, including governments, or negative publicity with respect to matters relating to our products, pricing practices and other matters. the company has been subject to significant press coverage and scrutiny from third parties, including regulators, legislative bodies and enforcement agencies, with respect to matters relating to our business, pricing practices, and other matters. this coverage and public scrutiny have included assertions of wrongdoing against the company which, regardless of the factual or legal basis for such assertions, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, investigations, and calls for investigations, by governmental agencies at both the federal and state levels, claims brought against the company by governmental agencies or private parties, and regulators taking other measures that could have a negative effect on the company's business. for example, both the u.s. house of representatives and the u.s. senate have conducted hearings with respect to pharmaceutical drug pricing practices and alleged anti-competitive behavior by pharmaceutical companies, and additional hearings are scheduled. ongoing focus on these issues has in the past led and in the future could lead to investigations of price increases and other business practices of specific pharmaceutical companies, including mylan. it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of any such investigations or claims or what other investigations or lawsuits or regulatory responses may result from such assertions. there has also recently been intense publicity regarding the pricing of pharmaceuticals more generally, including publicity and pressure resulting from prices charged by competitors and peer companies for new products as well as price increases by competitors and peer companies on older products that some have deemed excessive. we have experienced and may continue to experience downward pricing pressure on the price of certain of our products due to social or political pressure to lower the cost of drugs, which could reduce our revenue and future profitability. any of the above developments could result in reputational harm and reduced market acceptance and demand for our products, could harm our ability to market our products in the future, could cause us to incur significant expense, could cause our senior management to be distracted from execution of our business strategy, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or ordinary share price. we have and may continue to experience pressure on the pricing of and reimbursements for certain of our products due to consolidation among purchasers or social and political pressure to lower the cost of drugs. we operate in a challenging environment, with significant pressures on the pricing of our products and on our ability to obtain and maintain satisfactory rates of reimbursement for our products by governments, insurers and other payors. the growth of overall healthcare costs has led governments and payors to implement new measures to control healthcare spending. as a result, we face numerous cost-containment measures by governments and other payors, including certain government-imposed industry-wide price reductions, mandatory pricing systems, reference pricing systems, tender systems, shifting of the payment burden to patients through higher co-payments, and requirements for increased transparency on pricing. in the u.s., certain of these pressures are further compounded by increasing consolidation among wholesalers, retailer drug chains, pharmacy benefit managers ( pbms ), private insurers, managed care organizations and other private payors, which can increase their negotiating power, particularly with respect to our generic drugs. please also refer to a significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales to a limited number of customers. 16 table of contents there has also been increasing u.s. federal and state legislative and enforcement interest with respect to drug pricing. in particular, u.s. federal prosecutors have issued subpoenas to pharmaceutical companies, including mylan, seeking information about their drug pricing practices, among other issues, and members of the congress have sought information from certain pharmaceutical companies, including mylan, relating to drug-price increases. in addition, there has been legislation and legislative proposals concerning drug prices and related issues, including the perceived need to bring more transparency to drug pricing, reviewing the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reforming government program reimbursement methodologies for drugs. for example, california, oregon and several other states have recently implemented legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to provide greater transparency with respect to drug prices and price increases and other states are considering similar legislation. this type of legislation, at the federal or state level, could affect demand for, or pricing of, our products and we cannot predict what, if any, additional legislative developments may transpire or what the ultimate impact may be. any of the events or developments described above could have a material adverse impact on our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or ordinary share price. current and changing economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business, partners and suppliers. the global economy continues to experience significant volatility, and the economic environment may become less favorable. economic volatility, governmental financial restructuring efforts and evolving deficit and spending reduction programs could negatively impact the global economy and the pharmaceutical industry. this has led, or could lead, to reduced consumer and customer spending, reduced or eliminated governmental or third-party payor coverage or reimbursement or reduced spending on healthcare, including but not limited to pharmaceutical products. while generic drugs present an alternative to higher-priced branded products, our sales could be negatively impacted if patients forego obtaining healthcare, patients and customers reduce spending or purchases, or if governments or third-party payors reduce or eliminate coverage or reimbursement amounts for pharmaceuticals or impose price or other controls adversely impacting the price or availability of pharmaceuticals. in addition, reduced consumer and customer spending, reduced government or third-party payor coverage or reimbursement, or new government controls, may drive us and our competitors to decrease prices, may reduce the ability of customers to pay, or may result in reduced demand for our products. the occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our industry, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we have significant operations globally, which exposes us to the risks inherent in conducting our business internationally . our operations extend to numerous countries outside the u.s., including our significant operations in india, and are subject to the risks inherent in conducting business globally and under the laws, regulations, and customs of various jurisdictions. these risks include, but are not limited to: compliance with the national and local laws of countries in which we do business, including, but not limited to, data privacy and protection, import/export and intellectual property protections; less established legal and regulatory regimes in certain jurisdictions; compliance with a variety of u.s. laws including, but not limited to, regulations put forth by the u.s. treasury's office of foreign assets control, the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 and rules relating to the use of certain conflict minerals under section 1502 of the dodd-frank wall street reform and the consumer protection act; changes in laws, regulations, and practices affecting the pharmaceutical industry and the healthcare system, including but not limited to imports, exports, manufacturing, quality, cost, pricing, reimbursement, approval, inspection, and delivery of healthcare; changes in policies designed to promote foreign investment, including significant tax incentives, liberalized import and export duties, and preferential rules on foreign investment and repatriation; differing local product preferences and product requirements; adverse changes in the economies in which we or our partners and suppliers operate as a result of a slowdown in overall growth, a change in government or economic policies, or financial, political, or social change or instability in such countries that affects the markets in which we operate, particularly emerging markets; changes in employment laws, wage increases, or rising inflation in the countries in which we or our partners and suppliers operate; supply disruptions and increases in energy and transportation costs; 17 table of contents increased tariffs on the import or export of our products or api, including on imports from china to the u.s.; natural or man-made disasters, including droughts, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes and the impact of climate change in the countries in which we or our partners and suppliers operate; local disturbances, terrorist attacks, riots, social disruption, wars, or regional hostilities in the countries in which we or our partners and suppliers operate and that could affect the economy, our operations and employees by disrupting operations and communications, making travel and the conduct of our business more difficult, and/or causing our customers to be concerned about our ability to meet their needs; and government uncertainty, including as a result of new or changed laws and regulations. we also face the risk that some of our competitors have more experience with operations in such countries or with international operations generally and may be able to manage unexpected crises more easily. moreover, the internal political stability of, or the relationship between, any country or countries where we conduct business operations may deteriorate. changes in a country's political stability or the state of relations between any such countries are difficult to predict and the political or social stability in and/or diplomatic relations between any countries in which we or our partners and suppliers do business could meaningfully deteriorate. for example, the formal change in the relationship between the european union ( eu ) and the u.k. as a result of the u.k. referendum to leave the eu ( brexit ) could impact our business. whether brexit occurs, as well as its exact structure and timing, are still being negotiated and therefore the impact remains uncertain. however, in the event brexit occurs, it could lead to divergent national laws and regulations, import/export restrictions, and potential changes to intellectual property rights, regulatory approval requirements and pharmaceutical regulations in the eu and the u.k., which could materially impact the way we conduct our operations in those markets. in addition, because we are tax resident in the u.k., the u.k. withdrawal from the eu could, depending on the results of the ongoing negotiations, eliminate the benefit of certain tax treaties and tax-related eu directives, which could have a material adverse effect on our tax position by, among other effects, subjecting us to withholding taxes on certain intercompany transactions. it may be time-consuming and expensive for us to alter our internal operations in order to comply with such new or changing regulations or tax treatments. any of these effects of brexit, and others we cannot anticipate, could negatively affect our business and financial results. the occurrence of any one or more of the above risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. charges to earnings resulting from acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or ordinary share price . under accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. ( u.s. gaap ) relating to business acquisition accounting standards, we recognize the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interests in acquired companies generally at their acquisition date fair values and, in each case, separately from goodwill. goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess amount of consideration transferred, which is also generally measured at fair value, and the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain. after we complete an acquisition, the following factors could result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results and may adversely affect our cash flows: costs incurred to combine the operations of companies we acquire, such as transitional employee expenses and employee retention, redeployment or relocation expenses; impairment of goodwill or intangible assets, including acquired in-process research and development ( ipr&amp;d ); amortization of intangible assets acquired; a reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired; identification of or changes to assumed contingent liabilities, including, but not limited to, contingent purchase price consideration including fair value adjustments, income tax contingencies and other non-income tax contingencies, after our final determination of the amounts for these contingencies or the conclusion of the measurement period (generally up to one year from the acquisition date), whichever comes first; charges to our operating results to eliminate certain duplicative pre-acquisition activities, to restructure our operations or to reduce our cost structure; and charges to our operating results resulting from expenses incurred to effect the acquisition. 18 table of contents a significant portion of these adjustments could be accounted for as expenses that will decrease our net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those costs are incurred. in particular, the amount of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheets is significant as a result of our acquisitions and other transactions, and may increase further following future potential acquisitions, and we may, from time to time, sell assets that we determine are not critical to our strategy or execution. future events or decisions may also lead to asset impairments and/or related charges. certain non-cash impairments may result from a change in our strategic goals, business direction or other factors relating to the overall business environment. any such charges could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, shareholders' equity and/or ordinary share price. the illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit versions of our products or of diverted or stolen products could have a negative impact on our reputation and our business. the pharmaceutical drug supply has been increasingly challenged by the vulnerability of distribution channels to illegal counterfeiting and the presence of counterfeit products in a growing number of markets and over the internet. third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit versions of our products that do not meet the rigorous manufacturing and testing standards that our products undergo. counterfeit products are frequently unsafe or ineffective and can be potentially life-threatening. counterfeit medicines may contain harmful substances, the wrong dose of api or no api at all. however, to distributors and users, counterfeit products may be visually indistinguishable from the authentic version. reports of adverse reactions to counterfeit drugs or increased levels of counterfeiting could materially affect patient confidence in the authentic product. it is possible that adverse events caused by unsafe counterfeit products will mistakenly be attributed to the authentic product. in addition, unauthorized diversions of products or thefts of inventory at warehouses, plants, or while in-transit, which are not properly stored, or which are sold through unauthorized channels, could adversely impact patient safety, our reputation, and our business. public loss of confidence in the integrity of pharmaceutical products as a result of counterfeiting, diversion, or theft could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we face vigorous competition that threatens the commercial acceptance and pricing of our products . the pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. we face competition from other pharmaceutical manufacturers globally, some of whom are significantly larger than we are. our competitors may be able to develop products and processes competitive with or superior to our own for many reasons, including but not limited to the possibility that they may have: proprietary processes or delivery systems; larger or more productive r&amp;d and marketing staff; larger or more efficient production capabilities in a particular therapeutic area; more experience in preclinical testing and human clinical trials; more products; or more experience in developing new drugs and greater financial resources, particularly with regard to manufacturers of branded products. we also face increasing competition from lower-cost generic products and other branded products. certain of our products are not protected by patent rights or have limited patent life and will soon lose patent protection. loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly by the introduction of generic substitutes. as a result, sales of many of these products may decline or stop growing over time. various factors may result in the sales of certain of our products declining faster than has been projected. in addition, legislative proposals emerge from time to time in various jurisdictions to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs. any such proposal that is enacted into law could increase competition and worsen this negative effect on our sales. competitors' products may also be safer, more effective, more effectively marketed or sold, or have lower prices or better performance features than ours. we cannot predict with certainty the timing or impact of competitors' products. pbms and other 19 table of contents pharmaceutical manufacturers may utilize contracting strategies that could decrease generic utilization and negatively impact our products. in addition, our sales may suffer as a result of changes in consumer demand for our products, including those related to fluctuations in consumer buying patterns tied to seasonality, importation by consumers or the introduction of new products by competitors. the occurrence of any of the above risks could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. a relatively small group of products may represent a significant portion of our revenues, net sales, gross profit, or net earnings from time to time. sales of a limited number of our products from time to time represent a significant portion of our revenues, net sales, gross profit, and net earnings. for the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017, mylan's top ten products in terms of sales, in the aggregate, represented approximately 20% and 21% , respectively, of the company's net sales. if the volume or pricing of our largest selling products declines in the future, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price could be materially adversely affected. our business could be negatively affected by the performance of our third-party collaboration partners. we have entered into strategic alliances with partners to develop, manufacture, market and/or distribute certain products, and/or certain components of our products, in various markets. we commit substantial effort, funds and other resources to these various collaborations, including with respect to the development of biosimilar products. there is a risk that the investments made by us in these collaborative arrangements will not generate financial returns. while we believe our relationships with our partners generally are successful, disputes or conflicting priorities and regulatory or legal intervention could be a source of delay or uncertainty as to the expected benefits of the collaboration. in addition, we enter into agreements with our collaboration partners that provide for certain services, as well as cross manufacturing, development and licensing arrangements. a failure or inability of our partners to fulfill their collaboration obligations, or the occurrence of any of the risks above, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we may experience reductions in the levels of reimbursement for pharmaceutical products by governmental authorities, health maintenance organizations ( hmos ), or other third-party payors. in addition, the use of tender systems and other forms of price control, including legislative or regulatory programs impacting pharmaceutical prices, could reduce prices for our products or reduce our market opportunities. various governmental authorities (including, among others, the u.k. national health service and the german statutory health insurance scheme) and private health insurers and other organizations, such as hmos in the u.s., provide reimbursements or subsidies to consumers for the cost of certain pharmaceutical products. demand for our products depends in part on the extent to which such reimbursement is available. in the u.s., third-party payors increasingly challenge the pricing of pharmaceutical products. these trends and other trends toward the growth of hmos, managed healthcare, and legislative healthcare reform create significant uncertainties regarding the future levels of reimbursement for pharmaceutical products. further, any reimbursement may be reduced in the future to the point that market demand for our products and/or our profitability declines. such a decline could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. in addition, current or future u.s. federal, u.s. state or other countries' laws and regulations may influence the prices of drugs and, therefore, could adversely affect the payments we receive for our products. for example, existing programs in certain u.s. states seek to broadly set prices within those states through the regulation and administration of the sale of prescription drugs. expansion of these programs, and, in particular, changes to state medicare and/or medicaid programs, or changes required in the way in which medicare payment rates are set and/or the way medicaid rebates are calculated, could adversely affect the payment we receive for our products. in order to control expenditure on pharmaceuticals, most member states in the eu regulate the pricing of products and, in some cases, limit the range of different forms of pharmaceuticals available for prescription by national health services. these controls can result in considerable price differences between member states. several countries in which we operate have implemented, or plan to or may implement, government mandated price reductions and/or other controls. when such price controls occur, pharmaceutical companies have generally experienced significant declines in revenues and profitability and uncertainties continue to exist within the market after the price decrease. such price reductions or controls could have an adverse effect on our business, and as uncertainties are resolved or if other countries in which we operate enact similar measures, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. 20 table of contents a number of markets in which we operate have also implemented or may implement tender systems for generic pharmaceuticals in an effort to lower prices. under such tender systems, manufacturers submit bids which establish prices for generic pharmaceutical products. upon winning the tender, the winning company will receive a preferential reimbursement for a period of time. the tender system often results in companies underbidding one another by proposing low pricing in order to win the tender. other markets may also consider the implementation of a tender system or other forms of price controls. even if a tender system is ultimately not implemented, the anticipation of such could result in price reductions. failing to win tenders, or the implementation of similar systems or other forms of price controls in other markets leading to further price declines, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. healthcare reform legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business. in recent years, there have been numerous initiatives on the federal and state levels for comprehensive reforms affecting the payment for, the availability of and reimbursement for, healthcare services in the u.s., and it is likely that congress and state legislatures and health agencies will continue to focus on healthcare reform in the future. the patient protection and affordable care act ( ppaca ) and the health care and education and reconciliation act of 2010 (h.r. 4872), which amends the ppaca (collectively, the health reform laws ), were signed into law in march 2010. while the health reform laws may increase the number of patients who have insurance coverage for our products, they also include provisions such as the assessment of a pharmaceutical manufacturer fee and an increase in the amount of rebates that manufacturers pay for coverage of their drugs by medicaid programs. we are unable to predict the future course of federal or state healthcare legislation. the health reform laws and further changes in the law or regulatory framework that reduce our revenues or increase our costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. additionally, we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. in the eu and some other international markets, the government provides healthcare at low cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices, patient eligibility and/or reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. these systems of price regulations may lead to inconsistent and lower prices. within the eu and in other countries, the availability of our products in some markets at lower prices undermines our sales in other markets with higher prices. additionally, certain countries set prices by reference to the prices in other countries where our products are marketed. thus, our inability to secure adequate prices in a particular country may also impair our ability to obtain acceptable prices in existing and potential new markets, and may create the opportunity for third party cross border trade. significant additional reforms to the u.s. healthcare system, or to the healthcare systems of other markets in which we operate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. provisions in our governance arrangements or that are otherwise available under dutch law could discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of us and may affect the market price of our ordinary shares. some provisions of our governance arrangements that are available under dutch law, such as our grant to a dutch foundation ( stichting ) of a call option to acquire preferred shares to safeguard the interests of the company, its businesses and its stakeholders against threats to our strategy, mission, independence, continuity and/or identity, may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of us, even if such a change in control is sought by our shareholders. an inability to effectively deal with and respond to unsolicited business proposals could limit our future growth and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we have in the past and may in the future receive proposals to acquire all of our outstanding shares or similar unsolicited business proposals. such unsolicited business proposals may not be consistent with or enhancing to our financial, operational, or market strategies and may not further the interests of our shareholders and other stakeholders, including employees, creditors, customers, suppliers, relevant patient populations and communities in which mylan operates and may jeopardize the sustainable success of mylan's business. however, the evaluation of and response to such unsolicited business proposals may nevertheless distract management and/or disrupt our ongoing businesses, which may adversely affect our relationships with customers, employees, partners, suppliers, regulators, and others with whom we have business or other dealings. 21 table of contents the expansion of social media platforms presents new risks and challenges. to the extent that we seek to use social media tools as a means to communicate about our products and/or business, there are uncertainties as to the rules that apply to such communications, or as to the interpretations that authorities will apply to the rules that exist. as a result, despite our efforts to monitor evolving social media communication guidelines and comply with applicable rules, there is risk that our use of social media for such purposes may cause us to be found in violation of them. our employees may knowingly or inadvertently make use of social media tools in ways that may not be aligned with our social media strategy, may give rise to liability, or could lead to the loss of material non-public information, trade secrets or other intellectual property, or public exposure of personal information (including sensitive personal information) of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. in addition, negative posts or comments about us on any social media website could damage our reputation. any of the above risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. operational risks our failure to comply with applicable environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations worldwide could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we are subject to various u.s. federal, state, and local and non-u.s. laws and regulations concerning, among other things, the environment, climate change, regulation of chemicals, employee safety and product safety. these requirements include regulation of the handling, manufacture, transportation, storage, use and disposal of materials, including the discharge of hazardous materials and pollutants into the environment. in the normal course of our business, we are exposed to risks relating to possible releases of hazardous substances into the environment, which could cause environmental or property damage or personal injuries, and which could result in (i) our noncompliance with such environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations and (ii) regulatory enforcement actions or claims for personal injury and property damage against us. if an unapproved or illegal environmental discharge occurs, or if we discover contamination caused by prior operations, including by prior owners and operators of properties we acquire, we could be liable for cleanup obligations, damages and fines. the substantial unexpected costs we may incur could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. in addition, our environmental capital expenditures and costs for environmental compliance may increase substantially in the future as a result of changes in environmental laws and regulations, the development and manufacturing of a new product or increased development or manufacturing activities at any of our facilities. we may be required to expend significant funds and our manufacturing activities could be delayed or suspended, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. the pharmaceutical industry is heavily regulated, and we face significant costs and uncertainties associated with our efforts to comply with applicable laws and regulations. the pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by various governmental authorities. for instance, we must comply with applicable laws and requirements of the fda and other regulatory agencies, including foreign authorities, in our other markets with respect to the research, development, manufacture, quality, safety, effectiveness, approval, labeling, tracking, tracing, authentication, storage, record-keeping, reporting, pharmacovigilance, sale, distribution, import, export, marketing, advertising, and promotion of pharmaceutical products. we are committed to conducting our business, including the sales and marketing of our products, in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. these laws and regulations, however, are numerous and complex and it is possible that a governmental authority may challenge our activities, or that an employee or agent could violate these laws and regulations without our knowledge. failure to comply with regulations of the fda and other u.s. and foreign regulators could result in a range of consequences, including, but not limited to, fines, penalties, disgorgement, unanticipated compliance expenditures, suspension of review of applications or other submissions, rejection or delay in approval of applications, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, our inability to sell products, the return by customers of our products, injunctions, and/or criminal prosecution. under certain circumstances, a regulator may also have the authority to revoke or vary previously granted drug approvals. the safety profile of any product will continue to be closely monitored by the fda and comparable foreign regulatory authorities after approval. if the fda or comparable foreign regulatory authorities become aware of new safety information about any of our marketed or investigational products, those authorities may require labeling changes, establishment of a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy or similar strategy, restrictions on a product's indicated uses or marketing, or post-approval studies or post-market surveillance. in addition, we are subject to regulations in various jurisdictions, including the federal drug supply chain security act in the u.s., the falsified medicines directive in the eu and several other such regulations in other countries that require us to develop electronic systems to serialize, track, trace and authenticate units of our products through the supply chain 22 table of contents and distribution system. compliance with these regulations may result in increased expenses for us or impose greater administrative burdens on our organization, and failure to meet these requirements could result in fines or other penalties. the fda and comparable regulatory authorities also regulate the facilities and operational procedures that we use to manufacture our products. we must register our facilities with the fda and similar regulators in other countries. products must be manufactured in our facilities in accordance with cgmp or similar standards in each territory in which we manufacture. compliance with such regulations and with our own quality standards requires substantial expenditures of time, money, and effort in multiple areas, including training of personnel, record-keeping, production, and quality control and quality assurance. the fda and other regulatory authorities, including foreign authorities, periodically inspect our manufacturing facilities for compliance with cgmp or similar standards in the applicable territory. regulatory approval to manufacture a drug is granted on a site-specific basis. failure to comply with cgmp and other regulatory standards at one of our or our partners' or suppliers' manufacturing facilities could result in an adverse action brought by the fda or other regulatory authorities, which could result in a receipt of an untitled or warning letter, fines, penalties, disgorgement, unanticipated compliance expenditures, rejection or delay in approval of applications, suspension of review of applications or other submissions, suspension of ongoing clinical trials, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, our inability to sell products, the return by customers of our products, orders to suspend, vary, or withdraw marketing authorizations, injunctions, consent decrees, requirements to modify promotional materials or issue corrective information to healthcare practitioners, refusal to permit import or export, criminal prosecution and/or other adverse actions. if any regulatory body were to delay, withhold, or withdraw approval of an application; require a recall or other adverse product action; require one of our manufacturing facilities to cease or limit production; or suspend, vary, or withdraw related marketing authorization, our business could be adversely affected. delay and cost in obtaining fda or other regulatory approval to manufacture at a different facility also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. although we have established internal quality and regulatory compliance programs and policies, there is no guarantee that these programs and policies, as currently designed, will meet regulatory agency standards in the future or will prevent instances of non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations. additionally, despite efforts at compliance, from time to time we or our partners receive notices of manufacturing and quality-related observations following inspections by regulatory authorities around the world, as well as official agency correspondence regarding compliance. for example, on november 9, 2018, the fda issued a warning letter with respect to our manufacturing plant in morgantown, west virginia. this action resulted from previously disclosed observations of the plant made by fda in april 2018. we have implemented comprehensive restructuring and remediation activities at our morgantown plant, and the issues raised in the warning letter are being addressed within the context of these activities. however, we or our partners may receive similar observations and correspondence in the future. if we are unable to resolve these observations and address regulator's concerns in a timely fashion, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price could be materially affected. we utilize controlled substances in certain of our current products and products in development, and therefore must meet the requirements of the controlled substances act of 1970 and the related regulations administered by the drug enforcement agency ( dea ) in the u.s., as well as those of similar laws in other countries where we operate. these laws relate to the manufacture, shipment, storage, sale, and use of controlled substances. the dea and other regulatory agencies limit the availability of the controlled substances used in certain of our current products and products in development and, as a result, our procurement quota of these active ingredients may not be sufficient to meet commercial demand or complete clinical trials. we must annually apply to the dea and similar regulatory agencies for procurement quotas in order to obtain these substances. any delay or refusal by the dea or such similar agencies in establishing our procurement quota for controlled substances could delay or stop our clinical trials or product launches, or could cause trade inventory disruptions for those products that have already been launched, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. the use of legal, regulatory, and legislative strategies by both brand and generic competitors, including but not limited to authorized generics and regulatory petitions, as well as the potential impact of proposed and newly enacted legislation, may increase costs associated with the introduction or marketing of our generic products, could delay or prevent such introduction, and could significantly reduce our revenue and profit . our competitors, both branded and generic, often pursue strategies to prevent or delay generic alternatives to branded products. these strategies include, but are not limited to: 23 table of contents entering into agreements whereby other generic companies will begin to market an authorized generic, which is the approved brand-name drug without the brand-name on its label, at the same time or after generic competition initially enters the market; launching their own authorized generic product prior to or at the same time or after generic competition initially enters the market; pricing a branded product at a discount equivalent to generic pricing, as was the case for copaxone after the launch of our generic glatiramer acetate products; filing petitions with the fda or other regulatory bodies seeking to prevent or delay approvals, including timing the filings so as to thwart generic competition by causing delays of our product approvals; contracting strategies among pharmaceutical manufacturers and pbms that could decrease generic utilization and negatively impact our product launches; seeking to establish regulatory and legal obstacles that would make it more difficult to demonstrate bioequivalence or to meet other requirements for approval, and/or to prevent regulatory agency review of applications; initiating legislative or other efforts to limit the substitution of generic versions of brand pharmaceuticals; filing suits for patent infringement and other claims that may delay or prevent regulatory approval, manufacture, and/or sale of generic products; introducing next-generation products prior to the expiration of market exclusivity for the reference product, which often materially reduces the demand for the generic or the reference product for which we seek regulatory approval; persuading regulatory bodies to withdraw the approval of brand-name drugs for which the patents are about to expire and converting the market to another product of the brand company on which longer patent protection exists; obtaining extensions of market exclusivity by conducting clinical trials of brand drugs in pediatric populations or by other methods; and seeking to obtain new patents on drugs for which patent protection is about to expire. in the u.s., some companies have lobbied congress for amendments to the drug price competition and patent term restoration act of 1984 (the hatch-waxman act ) that would give them additional advantages over generic competitors. for example, although the term of a company's drug patent can be extended to reflect a portion of the time a new drug application ( nda , which is filed in the u.s. with the fda when approval is sought to market a newly developed branded product and, in certain instances, for a new dosage form, a new delivery system or a new indication for a previously approved drug) is under regulatory review, some companies have proposed extending the patent term by a full year for each year spent in clinical trials rather than the one-half year that is currently permitted. if proposals like these in the u.s., europe, or in other countries where we or our partners and suppliers operate were to become effective, or if any other actions by our competitors and other third parties to prevent or delay activities necessary to the approval, manufacture, or distribution of our products are successful, our entry into the market and our ability to generate revenues associated with new products may be delayed, reduced, or eliminated, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. if we are unable to successfully introduce new products in a timely manner, our future revenue and profitability may be adversely affected. our future revenues and profitability will depend, in part, upon our ability to successfully and timely develop, license, or otherwise acquire and commercialize new products. product development is inherently risky, especially for new drugs for which safety and efficacy have not been established and/or the market is not yet proven as well as for complex generic drugs and biosimilars. likewise, product licensing involves inherent risks, including, among others, uncertainties due to matters that may affect the achievement of milestones, as well as the possibility of contractual disagreements with regard to whether the supply of product meets certain specifications or terms such as license scope or termination rights. the development and commercialization process, particularly with regard to new and complex drugs, also requires substantial time, effort and financial resources. we, or a partner, may not be successful in commercializing such products on a timely basis, or at all, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. before any prescription drug product, including generic drug products, can be marketed, marketing authorization approval is required by the relevant regulatory authorities and/or national regulatory agencies (for example, the fda in the u.s. and the ema in the eu). the process of obtaining regulatory approval to manufacture and market new branded and generic pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time consuming, costly, and inherently unpredictable. in addition, these regulatory agencies may be delayed 24 table of contents in reviewing and approving products as a result of lapsed or insufficient funding, insufficient staffing or other factors beyond our control. as a result of brexit, the eu has decided to move the headquarters of the ema from the u.k. to the netherlands by march 2019, which raises the possibility that any existing and/or new regulatory approval applications in the eu, whether for existing or new drug products, could be delayed as a result. any delay in regulatory approval could impact the commercial or financial success of a product. outside the u.s., the approval process may be more or less rigorous, depending on the country, and the time required for approval may be longer or shorter than that required in the u.s. bioequivalence, clinical, or other studies conducted in one country may not be accepted in other countries, the requirements for approval may differ among countries, and the approval of a pharmaceutical product in one country does not necessarily mean that the product will be approved in another country. we, or a partner or supplier, may be unable to obtain requisite approvals on a timely basis, or at all, for new products that we may develop, license or otherwise acquire. moreover, if we obtain regulatory approval for a drug, it may be limited, for example, with respect to the indicated uses and delivery methods for which the drug may be marketed, or may include warnings, precautions or contraindications in the labeling, which could restrict our potential market for the drug. a regulatory approval may also include post-approval study or risk management requirements that may substantially increase the resources required to market the drug. also, for products pending approval, we may obtain raw materials or produce batches of inventory to be used in efficacy and bioequivalence testing, as well as in anticipation of the product's launch. in the event that regulatory approval is denied or delayed, we could be exposed to the risk of this inventory becoming obsolete. the approval process for generic pharmaceutical products often results in the relevant regulatory agency granting final approval to a number of generic pharmaceutical products at the time a patent claim for a corresponding branded product or other market exclusivity expires. this often forces us to face immediate competition when we introduce a generic product into the market. additionally, further generic approvals often continue to be granted for a given product subsequent to the initial launch of the generic product. these circumstances generally result in significantly lower prices, as well as reduced margins, for generic products compared to branded products. new generic market entrants generally cause continued price, margin, and sales erosion over the generic product life cycle. in the u.s., the hatch-waxman act provides for a period of 180 days of generic marketing exclusivity for a first applicant, that is the first submitted abbreviated new drug application ( anda , which is filed in the u.s. with the fda when approval is sought to market a generic equivalent of a drug product previously approved under an nda and listed in the fda publication entitled approved drug products with therapeutic equivalence evaluations, popularly known as the orange book or for a new dosage strength for a drug previously approved under an anda) containing a certification of invalidity, non-infringement or unenforceability related to a patent listed with the anda's reference drug product, commonly referred to as a paragraph iv certification. during this exclusivity period, which under certain circumstances may be shared with other andas filed on the same day, the fda cannot grant final approval to later-submitted andas for the same generic equivalent. if an anda is awarded 180-day exclusivity, the applicant generally enjoys higher market share, net revenues, and gross margin for that generic product. however, our ability to obtain 180 days of generic marketing exclusivity may be dependent upon our ability to obtain fda approval or tentative approval within an applicable time period of the fda's acceptance of our anda. if we are unable to obtain approval or tentative approval within that time period, we may risk forfeiture of such marketing exclusivity. by contrast, if we are not a first applicant to challenge a listed patent for such a product, we may lose significant advantages to a competitor with 180-day exclusivity, even if we obtain fda approval for our generic drug product. the same would be true in situations where we are required to share our exclusivity period with other anda sponsors with paragraph iv certifications. in the eu and other countries and regions, there is no exclusivity period for the first generic product. the european commission or national regulatory agencies may grant marketing authorizations to any number of generics. if we are unable to navigate our products through the approval process in a timely manner, there could be an adverse effect on our product introduction plans, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we expend a significant amount of resources on r&amp;d efforts that may not lead to successful product introductions. much of our development effort is focused on technically difficult-to-formulate products and/or products that require advanced manufacturing technology, including our biosimilars program and respiratory platform. we conduct r&amp;d primarily to enable us to gain approval for, manufacture, and market pharmaceuticals in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. we also partner with third parties to develop products. typically, research expenses related to the development of innovative or complex compounds and the filing of marketing authorization applications for innovative and complex compounds (such as ndas and biosimilar applications in the u.s.) are significantly greater than those expenses associated with the development of and filing of marketing authorization applications for most generic products (such as andas in the u.s. and abridged applications in europe). 25 table of contents as we and our partners continue to develop new and/or complex products, our research expenses will likely increase. because of the inherent risk associated with r&amp;d efforts in our industry, including the high cost and uncertainty of conducting clinical trials (where required) particularly with respect to new and/or complex drugs, our, or a partner's, r&amp;d expenditures may not result in the successful introduction of new pharmaceutical products approved by the relevant regulatory bodies. also, after we submit a marketing authorization application for a new compound or generic product, the relevant regulatory authority may change standards and/or request that we conduct additional studies or evaluations and, as a result, we may incur approval delays as well as r&amp;d costs in excess of what we anticipated. clinical testing is expensive and can take many years to complete, and its outcome is inherently uncertain. failure can occur at any time during the clinical trial process. we or our partners may experience delays in our ongoing or future clinical trials, and we do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin or enroll subjects on time, need to be redesigned, or be completed on schedule, if at all. clinical trials may be delayed, suspended or prematurely terminated for a variety of reasons. if we experience delays in the completion of, or the termination of, any clinical trial of our product candidates, the commercial prospects of our product candidates will be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues from any of these product candidates will be delayed. in addition, any delays in completing our clinical trials will increase our costs, slow down our product candidate development and approval process, and jeopardize our ability to commence product sales and generate revenues. any of these occurrences may harm our business, financial condition and prospects significantly. in addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of our product candidates. finally, we cannot be certain that any investment made in developing products will be recovered, even if we are successful in commercialization. to the extent that we expend significant resources on r&amp;d efforts and are not able, ultimately, to introduce successful new and/or complex products as a result of those efforts, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. even if our products in development receive regulatory approval, such products may not achieve expected levels of market acceptance . even if we are able to obtain regulatory approvals for our new products, the success of those products is dependent upon market acceptance. levels of market acceptance for our products could be impacted by several factors, including but not limited to: the availability, perceived advantages, and relative safety and efficacy of alternative products from our competitors; the degree to which the approved labeling supports promotional initiatives for commercial success; the prices of our products relative to those of our competitors; the timing of our market entry; the effectiveness of our marketing, sales, and distribution strategy and operations; and other competitor actions, including legal actions. additionally, studies of the proper utilization, safety, and efficacy of pharmaceutical products are being conducted by the industry, government agencies, and others. such studies, which increasingly employ sophisticated methods and techniques, can call into question the utilization, safety, and efficacy of previously marketed as well as future products. in some cases, such studies have resulted, and may in the future result, in the discontinuation or variation of product marketing authorizations or requirements for risk management programs, such as a patient registry. any of these events could adversely affect our profitability, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. the development, approval process, manufacture and commercialization of biosimilar products involve unique challenges and uncertainties, and our failure to successfully introduce biosimilar products could have a negative impact on our business and future operating results. we and our partners and suppliers are actively working to develop and commercialize biosimilar products. although the biologics price competition and innovation act of 2009 ( bpcia ) established a framework for the review and approval of biosimilar products and the fda has begun to review and approve biosimilar product applications, there continues to be significant uncertainty regarding the regulatory pathway in the u.s., with the fda continuing to issue and revise guidance related to its 26 table of contents interpretation and implementation of the bpcia. there is also uncertainty regarding the pathway to obtain approval for biosimilar products in other countries as well as uncertainty regarding the commercial pathway to successfully market and sell such products. moreover, biosimilar products generally involve extensive patent clearances and often involve patent infringement litigation related to multiple patents, which could delay or prevent the commercial launch of a biosimilar product for many years. if we are unable to obtain fda or other non-u.s. regulatory authority approval for our products, we will be unable to market them. in addition, the development and manufacture of biosimilars pose unique challenges related to the supply of the materials needed to manufacture biosimilars. access to and the supply of necessary biological materials may be limited, and government regulations restrict access to and regulate the transport and use of such materials. even if our biosimilar products are approved for marketing, the products may not be commercially successful, may require more time than expected to achieve market acceptance, and may not generate profits in amounts that are sufficient to offset the amount invested to obtain such approvals. market success of biosimilar products will depend on demonstrating to regulators, patients, physicians and payors (such as insurance companies) that such products are safe and effective yet offer a more competitive price or other benefit over existing therapies. in addition, manufacturers of biologic products may try to dissuade physicians from prescribing or accepting biosimilar products. we may not be able to generate future sales of biosimilar products in certain jurisdictions and may not realize the anticipated benefits of our investments in the development, manufacture and sale of such products. if our development efforts do not result in the development and timely approval of biosimilar products or if such products, once developed and approved, are not commercially successful, or upon the occurrence of any of the above risks, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price could be materially adversely affected. our business is highly dependent upon market perceptions of us, our products, and the safety and quality of our products, and may be adversely impacted by negative publicity or findings. market perceptions of us are very important to our business, especially market perceptions of our company, products and the safety and quality of our products. if we, our partners and suppliers, or our products suffer from negative publicity, or if any of our products or similar products which other companies distribute are subject to market withdrawal or recall or are proven to be, or are claimed to be, ineffective or harmful to consumers, then this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. also, because we are dependent on market perceptions, negative publicity associated with product quality, patient illness, or other adverse effects resulting from, or perceived to be resulting from, our products, or our partners' and suppliers' manufacturing facilities, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. a significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales to a limited number of customers. a significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales to a limited number of customers. if we were to experience a significant reduction in or loss of business with one or more such customers, or if one or more such customers were to experience difficulty in paying us on a timely basis, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price could be materially adversely affected. in addition, a significant amount of our sales are to a relatively small number of drug wholesalers and retail drug chains. these customers represent an essential part of the distribution chain of generic pharmaceutical products. drug wholesalers and retail drug chains have undergone, and are continuing to undergo, significant consolidation. this consolidation has resulted in these groups gaining additional purchasing leverage and, consequently, increasing the product pricing pressures facing our business. we expect this trend of increased pricing pressures to continue. additionally, the emergence of large buying groups representing independent retail pharmacies and the prevalence and influence of managed care organizations and similar institutions increases the negotiating power of these groups, enabling them to attempt to extract price discounts, rebates, and other restrictive pricing terms on our products. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. during the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, mylan's consolidated net sales to its three largest customers were approximately: 8% , 10%, and 11%, respectively, to cardinal health, inc.; 12% , 13%, and 16%, respectively, to mckesson corporation; and 8% , 8%, and 14%, respectively, to amerisourcebergen corporation. the supply of api into europe may be negatively affected by recent regulations promulgated by the eu. all api imported into the eu has needed to be certified as complying with the good manufacturing practice standards established by the eu laws and guidance, as stipulated by the international conference for harmonization. these regulations place the certification requirement on the regulatory bodies of the exporting countries. accordingly, the national regulatory authorities 27 table of contents of each exporting country must: (i) ensure that all manufacturing plants within their borders that export api into the eu comply with eu manufacturing standards and (ii) for each api exported, present a written document confirming that the exporting plant conforms to eu manufacturing standards. the imposition of this responsibility on the governments of the nations exporting an api may cause delays in delivery or shortages of an api necessary to manufacture our products, as certain governments may not be willing or able to comply with the regulation in a timely fashion, or at all. a shortage in api may prevent us from manufacturing, or cause us to have to cease manufacture of, certain products, or to incur costs and delays to qualify other suppliers to substitute for those api manufacturers unable to export. the occurrence of any of the above risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we have a limited number of manufacturing facilities and certain third-party suppliers produce a substantial portion of our api and products, some of which require a highly exacting and complex manufacturing process. a substantial portion of our capacity, as well as our current production, is attributable to a limited number of manufacturing facilities and certain third-party suppliers. a significant disruption at any one of such facilities within our internal or third-party supply chain, even on a short-term basis, whether due to the failure of a third-party supplier to fulfill the terms of their agreement with us, labor disruption, adverse quality or compliance observation, other regulatory action, infringement of brand or other third-party intellectual property rights, natural disaster, civil or political unrest, export or import restrictions, or other events could impair our ability to produce and ship products to the market on a timely basis and could, among other consequences, subject us to exposure to claims from customers. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. if we or our third-party suppliers' face significant manufacturing issues, this could lead to shutdowns or product shortages, or to our being entirely unable to supply certain products to customers for an extended period of time. such shortages or shutdowns have led and could continue to lead to significant losses of sales revenue, third-party litigation, or negative publicity. see also the pharmaceutical industry is heavily regulated, and we face significant costs and uncertainties associated with our efforts to comply with applicable laws and regulations. we purchase certain api and other materials and supplies that we use in our manufacturing operations, as well as certain finished products, from many different foreign and domestic suppliers. the price of api and other materials and supplies is subject to volatility, and in certain cases, we have listed only one supplier in our applications with regulatory agencies. there is no guarantee that we will always have timely, sufficient or affordable access to critical raw materials or finished product supplied by third parties, even when we have more than one supplier. an increase in the price, or an interruption in the supply, of a single-sourced or any other raw material, including the relevant api, or in the supply of finished product, could cause our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price to be materially adversely affected. quality deficiencies in the products which our suppliers provide, or at their manufacturing facilities, could adversely impact our manufacturing and supply capabilities, cause supply interruptions, or lead to voluntary market withdrawals or product recalls. in addition, the manufacture of some of our products is a highly exacting and complex process, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. problems may arise during manufacturing at our or our third-party suppliers' facilities for a variety of reasons, including, among others, equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials, natural disasters, power outages, labor unrest, and environmental factors. if problems arise during the production of a batch of product, that batch of product may have to be discarded. this could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, damage to customer relations, time and expense spent investigating the cause, and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other batches or products. if problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, recall and product liability costs may also be incurred. if we or one of our suppliers experience any of the problems described above, such problems could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. our future success is highly dependent on our continued ability to attract and retain key personnel. it is important that we attract and retain qualified personnel in order to develop and commercialize new products, manage our business, and compete effectively. competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical industry is very intense. if we fail to attract, develop, incentivize and retain key scientific, technical, commercial, regulatory or management personnel, this could lead to loss of customers, business disruption, and a decline in revenues, adversely affect the progress of pipeline products, or otherwise adversely affect our operations. additionally, while we work to ensure that we have effective plans in place for management succession, any anticipated or unanticipated management transition could create uncertainty, which could disrupt or result in changes to our strategy and have a negative impact on our business. while we have employment agreements with certain key employees in place, their employment for the duration of the agreement is not guaranteed. current and prospective employees might also experience uncertainty about their future roles with us following the consummation and integration of recent acquisitions and potential future transactions, which might adversely affect our ability to retain key managers and other employees. if we are 28 table of contents unsuccessful in retaining our key employees or enforcing certain post-employment contractual provisions such as confidentiality or non-competition provisions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we are in the process of enhancing and further developing our global erp systems and associated business applications, which could result in business interruptions if we encounter difficulties. we are enhancing and further developing our global erp and other business critical it infrastructure systems and associated applications to provide more operating efficiencies and effective management of our business and financial operations. such changes to erp systems and related software, and other it infrastructure carry risks such as cost overruns, project delays and business interruptions and delays. if we experience a material business interruption as a result of our erp enhancements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. compliance risks we are subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act, and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws, which impose restrictions on certain conduct and may carry substantial fines and penalties. we are subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions. these laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from engaging in bribery or making other prohibited payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and some have record keeping requirements. the failure to comply with these laws could result in substantial criminal and/or monetary penalties. we operate in jurisdictions that have experienced corruption, bribery, pay-offs and other similar practices from time-to-time and, in certain circumstances, such practices may be local custom. we have implemented internal control policies and procedures that mandate compliance with these anti-corruption laws. however, we cannot be certain that these policies and procedures will protect us against liability. there can be no assurance that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. if our employees or agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe criminal or civil penalties and other consequences that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. our competitors, including branded pharmaceutical companies, and/or other third parties, may allege that we or our suppliers are infringing upon their intellectual property, including in an at risk launch situation, which could result in substantial monetary damages, impact our ability to launch a product and/or our ability to continue marketing a product, and/or force us to expend substantial resources in resulting litigation, the outcome of which is uncertain. companies that produce branded pharmaceutical products and other patent holders routinely bring litigation against entities selling or seeking regulatory approval to manufacture and market generic forms of their branded products, as well as other entities involved in the manufacture, supply, and other aspects relating to api and finished pharmaceutical products. these companies and other patent holders may allege patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights as the basis for filing suit against an applicant for a generic product as well as others who may be involved in some aspect of research, supply, production, distribution, testing, packaging or other processes. litigation often involves significant expense and can delay or prevent introduction or sale of our generic products. if patents are held valid and infringed by our products in a particular jurisdiction, we and/or our supplier(s) or partner(s) may, unless we or the supplier(s) or partner(s) could obtain a license from the patent holder, need to cease manufacturing and other activities, including but not limited to selling in that jurisdiction. we may also need to pay damages, surrender or withdraw the product, or destroy existing stock in that jurisdiction. there also may be situations, including, for example, the decision to launch our 40mg/ml glatiramer acetate and fulphila products, where we use our business judgment and decide to market, and sell products, directly or through third parties, notwithstanding the fact that allegations of patent infringement(s) and other third-party rights have not been finally resolved by the courts (i.e., an at-risk launch ). the risk involved in doing so can be substantial because the remedies available to the owner of a patent for infringement may include, among other things, a reasonable royalty on sales, damages measured by the profits lost by the patent holder, or by profits earned by the infringer. if there is a finding by a court of willful infringement, the definition of which is subjective, such damages may be increased by up to three times. moreover, because of the discount pricing typically involved with bioequivalent products, patented branded products generally realize a substantially higher profit margin than generic or biosimilar products. an adverse decision in a case such as this, or a judicial order preventing us or our suppliers and partners from manufacturing, marketing, selling, and/or other activities necessary to the manufacture and distribution of our products, could result in substantial penalties, and/or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. 29 table of contents we rely on the effectiveness of our patents, confidentiality agreements and other measures to protect our intellectual property rights. our ability to commercialize any branded product successfully will largely depend upon our or any partner's or supplier's ability to obtain and maintain patents and trademarks of sufficient scope to lawfully prevent third parties from developing and/or marketing infringing products. in the absence of intellectual property or other protection, competitors may adversely affect our branded products business by independently developing and/or marketing substantially equivalent products. it is also possible that we could incur substantial costs if we are required to initiate litigation against others to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. we have filed and/or own patent filings covering the api or formulation of, methods of making, and/or methods of using, our branded products and branded product candidates. we may not be issued patents based on patent applications already filed or that we file in the future. further, due to other factors that affect patentability, and if patents are issued, they may be insufficient in scope to cover or otherwise protect our branded products. patents are national in scope and therefore the issuance of a patent in one country does not ensure the issuance of a patent in any other country. furthermore, the patent position of companies in the pharmaceutical industry generally involves complex legal and factual questions and has been and remains the subject of significant litigation. legal standards relating to scope and validity of patent claims are evolving and may differ in various countries. any patents we have obtained, or obtain in the future, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. moreover, the u.s. patent and trademark office or any other governmental agency may commence inter partes review or interference proceedings involving, or consider other challenges to, our patents or patent applications. in addition, branded products often have market viability based upon the goodwill of the product name, which typically benefits from trademark protection. our branded products may therefore also be subject to risks related to the loss of trademark or patent protection or to competition from generic or other branded products. challenges can come from other businesses, individuals or governments, and governments could require compulsory licensing of this intellectual property. any challenge to, or invalidation or circumvention of, our intellectual property (including patents or patent applications, copyrights and trademark protection) would be costly, would require significant time and attention of our management, and could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how, trademarks, regulatory exclusivity and continuing technological innovation that we seek to protect, in part by confidentiality agreements with licensees, suppliers, employees and consultants. these measures may not provide adequate protection for our unpatented technology. if these agreements are breached, it is possible that we will not have adequate remedies. disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability of confidentiality agreements. furthermore, our trade secrets and proprietary technology may otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors or we may not be able to maintain the confidentiality of information relating to such products. if we are unable to adequately protect our technology, trade secrets or proprietary know-how, or enforce our intellectual property rights, this could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. our reporting and payment obligations related to our participation in u.s. federal healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid and the department of veterans affairs (the va ), are complex and often involve subjective decisions that could change as a result of new business circumstances, new regulations or agency guidance, or advice of legal counsel. any failure to comply with those obligations could subject us to investigation, penalties, and sanctions. u.s. federal laws regarding reporting and payment obligations with respect to a pharmaceutical company's participation in federal healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid and the va, are complex. because our processes for calculating applicable government prices and the judgments involved in making these calculations involve subjective decisions and complex methodologies, these calculations are subject to risk of errors and differing interpretations. in addition, they are subject to review and challenge by the applicable governmental agencies, and it is possible that such reviews could result in changes that may have material adverse legal, regulatory, or economic consequences. pharmaceutical manufacturers that participate in the medicaid drug rebate program, such as mylan, are required to report certain pricing data to the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services ( cms ), the federal agency that administers the medicare and medicaid programs. this data includes the average manufacturer price ( amp ) for each of the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs. cms calculates a type of u.s. federal ceiling on reimbursement rates to pharmacies for multiple source drugs under the medicaid program, known as the federal upper limit ( ful ). since april 2016, cms is required to use the weighted average amp for pharmaceutically and therapeutically equivalent multiple source drugs to calculate fuls, instead of the other pricing data cms previously used. although weighted average amp-based fuls do not reveal mylan's individual amp, publishing a weighted average amp available to customers and the public at large could negatively affect our commercial price negotiations. 30 table of contents in addition, a number of state and federal government agencies are conducting investigations of manufacturers' reporting practices with respect to average wholesale prices ( awp ). the government has alleged that reporting of inflated awp has led to excessive payments for prescription drugs, and we may be named as a defendant in actions relating to pharmaceutical pricing issues and whether allegedly improper actions by pharmaceutical manufacturers led to excessive payments by medicare, medicaid and/or the va. any governmental agencies or authorities that have commenced, or may commence, an investigation of us relating to the sales, marketing, pricing, quality, or manufacturing of pharmaceutical products could seek to impose, based on a claim of violation of anti-fraud and false claims laws or otherwise, civil and/or criminal sanctions, including fines, penalties, and possible exclusion from federal healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid and/or the va. some of the applicable laws may impose liability even in the absence of specific intent to defraud. furthermore, should there be ambiguity with regard to how to properly calculate and report payments - and even in the absence of any such ambiguity - a governmental authority may take a position contrary to a position we have taken, and may impose or pursue civil and/or criminal sanctions. governmental agencies may also make changes in program interpretations, requirements or conditions of participation, some of which may have implications for amounts previously estimated or paid. there can be no assurance that our submissions will not be found by cms or the va to be incomplete or incorrect. any failure to comply with the above laws and regulations, and any such penalties or sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we are involved in various legal proceedings and certain government inquiries and may experience unfavorable outcomes of such proceedings or inquiries. we are or may be involved in various legal proceedings and certain government inquiries or investigations, including, but not limited to, patent infringement, product liability, antitrust matters, breach of contract, and claims involving medicare, medicaid and/or va reimbursements, or laws relating to sales, marketing, and pricing practices, some of which are described in our periodic reports, that involve claims for, or the possibility of, fines and penalties involving substantial amounts of money or other relief, including but not limited to civil or criminal fines and penalties and exclusion from participation in various government healthcare-related programs. with respect to government antitrust enforcement and private plaintiff litigation of so-called pay for delay patent settlements, large verdicts, settlements or government fines are possible, especially in the u.s. and eu. if any of these legal proceedings or inquiries were to result in an adverse outcome, the impact could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. refer to note 19 litigation included in item 8 in this annual report on form 10-k for further discussion of litigation matters. emerging developments in the u.s. legal landscape relative to the liability of generic pharmaceutical manufacturers for certain product liabilities claims could increase our exposure litigation costs and damages. although we maintain a combination of self-insurance and commercial insurance, no reasonable amount of insurance can fully protect against all risks because of the potential liability inherent in the business of producing pharmaceuticals for human consumption. to the extent that a loss occurs, depending on the nature of the loss and the level of insurance coverage maintained, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. in addition, in limited circumstances, entities that we have acquired are party to litigation in matters under which we are, or may be, entitled to indemnification by the previous owners. even in the case of indemnification, there are risks inherent in such indemnities and, accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will receive the full benefits of such indemnification, or that we will not experience an adverse result in a matter that is not indemnified, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. if we fail to comply with our corporate integrity agreement, we could be subject to substantial penalties and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. in august 2017, mylan inc. and mylan specialty l.p. entered into a corporate integrity agreement (the cia ) with the office of inspector general of the department of health and human services ( oig-hhs ). the cia has a five-year term and requires, among other things, enhancements to our compliance program, fulfillment of reporting and monitoring obligations, management certifications and resolutions from mylan inc.'s board, as well as that an independent review organization annually review various matters relating to the medicaid drug rebate program, among other things. if we fail to comply with the cia, the oig-hhs may impose substantial monetary penalties or exclude us from federal healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid or the va, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 31 table of contents we are increasingly dependent on it and our systems and infrastructure face certain risks, including cybersecurity and data leakage risks. significant disruptions to our it systems or breaches of information security could adversely affect our business. we are increasingly dependent on sophisticated it systems and infrastructure to operate our business. we also have outsourced significant elements of our operations to third parties, some of which are outside the u.s., including significant elements of our it infrastructure, and as a result we are managing many independent vendor relationships with third parties who may or could have access to our confidential information. the size and complexity of our it systems, and those of our third-party vendors with whom we contract, make such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions. in addition, we and our vendors could be susceptible to third-party attacks on our it systems. such attacks are increasingly sophisticated and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise, including state and quasi-state actors, criminal groups, hackers and others. any security breach or other disruption to our or our vendors' it infrastructure could also interfere with or disrupt our business operations, including our manufacturing, distribution, r&amp;d, sales and/or marketing activities. in the ordinary course of business, we and our vendors collect, store and transmit large amounts of confidential information (including trade secrets or other intellectual property, proprietary business information and personal information), and it is critical that we do so in a secure manner to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information. the size and complexity of our and our vendors' systems and the large amounts of confidential information that is present on them also makes them potentially vulnerable to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees, partners or vendors, or from attacks by malicious third parties. maintaining the security, confidentiality and integrity of this confidential information (including trade secrets or other intellectual property, proprietary business information and personal information) is important to our competitive business position. however, such information can be difficult to protect. while we have taken steps to protect such information, and to ensure that the third-party vendors' on which we rely have taken adequate steps to protect such information, there can be no assurance that our or our vendors' efforts will prevent service interruptions or security breaches in our systems or the unauthorized or inadvertent wrongful use or disclosure of confidential or material non-public information that could adversely affect our business operations or result in the loss, misappropriation, and/or unauthorized access, use or disclosure of, or the prevention of access to, confidential information. a breach of our or our vendors' security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure, unapproved dissemination, misappropriation or misuse of trade secrets, proprietary information, or other confidential information, whether as a result of theft, hacking, fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, or for any other cause, could enable others to produce competing products, use our proprietary technology or information, and/or adversely affect our business position. further, any such interruption, security breach, or loss, misappropriation, and/or unauthorized access, use or disclosure of confidential information, including personal information regarding our patients and employees, could result in financial, legal, business, and reputational harm to us and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we are subject to data privacy and security laws and regulations in many different jurisdictions and countries where we do business, and our or our vendors' inability to comply could result in fines, penalties, reputational damage, and could impact the way we operate our business. we are subject to laws and regulations governing the collection, use and transmission of personal information, including health information. as the legislative and regulatory landscape for data privacy and protection continues to evolve around the world, there has been an increasing focus on privacy and data protection issues that may affect our business, including the u.s.'s federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, as amended ( hipaa ), the eu's general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), and other laws and regulations described below. in the u.s., we may be subject to state security breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws and federal and state consumer protections laws which impose requirements for the collection, use, disclosure and transmission of personal information. each of these laws are subject to varying interpretations by courts and government agencies, creating complex compliance issues for us. if we, or the third-party vendors' on which we rely, fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations we could be subject to fines, penalties or sanctions, including criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain individually identifiable health information from a covered entity in a manner that is not authorized or permitted by hipaa or for aiding and abetting the violation of hipaa. in addition, eu member states and other jurisdictions have adopted data protection laws and regulations that impose significant compliance obligations. implementation of the gdpr in eu member states in may 2018 introduced new data protection requirements in the eu and established a framework to govern data sharing and collection and related consumer privacy rights. the gdpr imposed significant compliance obligations, including the implementation of a number of processes and policies around our data collection and use. in addition, the gdpr includes significant penalties for non-compliance, with fines up to the higher 32 table of contents of 20 million or 4% of total annual worldwide revenue. in general, gdpr, and other local privacy laws, could require adaptation of our technologies or practices to satisfy local privacy requirements and standards that may be more stringent than in the u.s. other countries in which we do business have, or are developing, laws governing the collection, use and transmission of personal information as well that may affect our business or require us to adapt our technologies or practices. these include canada and several latin american and asian countries, which have constitutional protections for, or have adopted legislation protecting, individuals' personal information. other countries, including australia and japan, have established specific legal requirements for cross-border transfers of personal information. some countries, including india, are considering legislation implementing data protection requirements or requiring local storage and processing of data or similar requirements. these and similar initiatives could increase the cost of developing, implementing or maintaining our it systems, require us to allocate more resources to compliance initiatives or increase our costs. in addition, a failure by us, or our third-party vendors, to comply with applicable data privacy and security laws could result in financial, legal, business, and reputational harm to us and could have a material adverse effect on the way we operate our business, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. increasing scrutiny and changing expectations from customers, regulators, investors, and other stakeholders with respect to our environmental, social and governance practices may impose additional costs on us or expose us to new or additional risks. companies are facing increasing scrutiny from customers, regulators, investors, and other stakeholders related to their environmental, social and governance practices. investor advocacy groups, investment funds and influential investors are also increasingly focused on these practices, especially as they relate to the environment, health and safety, supply chain management, diversity and human rights. failure to adapt to or comply with regulatory requirements or investor or stakeholder expectations and standards could negatively impact our reputation and the price of our ordinary shares. in addition, a number of our customers, including certain government purchasers, have adopted, or may adopt, procurement policies that include social and environmental requirements, or these customers may seek to include such provisions in their procurement contract terms and conditions. these social and environmental responsibility provisions and initiatives are subject to change, vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and certain elements may be difficult and/or cost prohibitive for us to comply with given the inherent complexity of our external supply chain and the global scope of our operations. in certain circumstances, in order to meet the requirements or standards of our customers, we may be obligated to modify our sourcing practices or make other operational choices which may require additional investments and increase our costs or result in inefficiencies. alternatively, we may be ineligible to participate in bids or tenders in certain markets, which may result in lost sales and revenues. any of the factors mentioned above, or the perception that we or our suppliers or contract manufacturers have not responded appropriately to the growing concern for such issues, regardless of whether we are legally required to do so, may damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations cash flows and/or ordinary share price. finance risks we expect to be treated as a non-u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. any changes to the tax laws or changes in other laws (including under applicable income tax treaties), regulations, rules, or interpretations thereof applicable to inverted companies and their affiliates, whether enacted before or after the epd business acquisition, may materially adversely affect us. under current u.s. law, we believe that we should not be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes as a result of mylan's acquisition of mylan inc. and the epd business (the epd business acquisition ). changes to section 7874 of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ), or to the u.s. treasury regulations promulgated thereunder, or interpretations thereof, or to other relevant tax laws (including applicable income tax treaties), could affect our status as a non-u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes and the tax consequences to us and our affiliates. any such changes could have prospective or retroactive application, and may apply even if enacted or promulgated now that the epd business acquisition has closed. if we were to be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, or if the relevant tax laws (including applicable income tax treaties) change, we would be subject to significantly greater u.s. tax liability than currently contemplated as a non-u.s. corporation or if the relevant tax laws (including applicable income tax treaties) had not changed, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. 33 table of contents the irs may not agree that we should be treated as a non-u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. the irs may not agree that we should be treated as a non-u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. although we are not incorporated in the u.s. and expect to be treated as a non-u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the irs may assert that we should be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. as disclosed in the tax footnote to our financial statements, we have received and responded to various irs requests for information about the epd business acquisition and our status as a non-u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes. if we were to be treated as a u.s. corporation for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we would be subject to significantly greater u.s. tax liability, beginning february 27, 2015, than currently contemplated as a non-u.s. corporation, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. if the intercompany terms of cross border arrangements that we have among our subsidiaries are determined to be inappropriate or ineffective, our tax liability may increase. we have potential tax exposures resulting from the varying application of statutes, regulations, and interpretations which include exposures on intercompany terms of cross-border arrangements among our subsidiaries (including intercompany loans, sales, and services agreements) in relation to various aspects of our business, including manufacturing, marketing, sales, and delivery functions. although we believe our cross-border arrangements among our subsidiaries are based upon internationally accepted standards and applicable law, tax authorities in various jurisdictions may disagree with and subsequently challenge the amount of profits taxed in their country, which may result in increased tax liability, including accrued interest and penalties, which would cause our tax expense to increase and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we may not be able to maintain competitive financial flexibility and our corporate tax rate and could adversely affect us and our shareholders. we believe that our structure and operations give us the ability to achieve competitive financial flexibility and a competitive worldwide effective corporate tax rate. the material assumptions underlying our expected tax rates include the fact that we expect certain of our businesses will be operated outside of the u.s. and, as such, will be subject to a lower tax rate than operations in the u.s., which will result in a lower blended worldwide tax rate than we were previously able to achieve. we must also make assumptions regarding the effect of certain internal reorganization transactions, including various intercompany transactions. we cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate will be, however, because of, among other reasons, uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate, potential changes of laws and interpretations thereof, and the potential for tax audits or challenges. our actual effective tax rate may vary from our expectation and that variance may be material. additionally, the tax laws of the u.k., the netherlands and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our effective tax rate. any of the factors discussed above could materially increase our overall effective income tax rate and income tax expense and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities and changes in income tax laws and tax rulings may have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate and income tax expense. we are subject to income taxes in many jurisdictions. significant analysis and judgment are required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. the final determination of any tax audits or related litigation could be materially different from our income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in our overall profitability, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the results of audits and the examination of previously filed tax returns by taxing authorities, and continuing assessments of our tax exposures could impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we may become taxable in a jurisdiction other than the u.k. and this may increase the aggregate tax burden on us. based on our current management structure and current tax laws of the u.s., the u.k., and the netherlands, as well as applicable income tax treaties, and current interpretations thereof, the u.k. and the netherlands competent authorities have 34 table of contents determined that we are tax resident solely in the u.k. for the purposes of the netherlands-u.k. tax treaty. we have received a binding ruling from the competent authorities in the u.k. and in the netherlands confirming this treatment. we will therefore be tax resident solely in the u.k. so long as the facts and circumstances set forth in the relevant application letters sent to those authorities remain accurate. even though we received a binding ruling, the applicable tax laws or interpretations thereof may change, or the assumptions on which such rulings were based may differ from the facts. as a consequence, we may become a tax resident of a jurisdiction other than the u.k. as a consequence, our overall effective income tax rate and income tax expense could materially increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we have a number of clean energy investments which are subject to various risks and uncertainties. we have invested in clean energy operations capable of producing refined coal that we believe qualify for tax credits under section 45 of the code. our ability to claim tax credits under section 45 of the code depends upon the operations in which we have invested satisfying certain ongoing conditions set forth in section 45 of the code. these include, among others, the emissions reduction, qualifying technology , and placed-in-service requirements of section 45 of the code, as well as the requirement that at least one of the operations' owners qualifies as a producer of refined coal. while we have received some degree of confirmation from the irs relating to our ability to claim these tax credits, the irs could ultimately determine that the operations have not satisfied, or have not continued to satisfy, the conditions set forth in section 45 of the code. in addition, congress could modify or repeal section 45 of the code and remove the tax credits retroactively. in addition, section 45 of the code contains phase out provisions based upon the market price of coal, such that, if the price of coal rises to specified levels, we could lose some or all of the tax credits we expect to receive from these investments. finally, when the price of natural gas or oil declines relative to that of coal, some utilities may choose to burn natural gas or oil instead of coal. market demand for coal may also decline as a result of an economic slowdown and a corresponding decline in the use of electricity. if utilities burn less coal, eliminate coal in the production of electricity or are otherwise unable to operate for an extended period of time, the availability of the tax credits would also be reduced. during 2017 and 2018, as a result of a decline in current and expected future production levels at certain of our clean energy facilities, the company impaired its investment balance and other assets and in 2018 we terminated certain of our clean energy investments. additional impairments or terminations could occur in the future. the occurrence of any of the above risks could limit the value of our investment, result in increased costs, materially increase our tax burden or adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. currency fluctuations and changes in exchange rates could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. although we report our financial results in u.s. dollars, a significant portion of our revenues, indebtedness and other liabilities and our costs are denominated in non-u.s. currencies, including among others the euro, swedish krona, indian rupee, japanese yen, australian dollar, canadian dollar, british pound sterling and brazilian real. our results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows, have in the past been and may in the future be adversely affected by certain movements in currency exchange rates. defaults or restructurings in other countries could have a similar adverse impact. from time to time, we may implement currency hedges intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. however, our hedging strategies may not be successful, and any of our unhedged foreign exchange exposures will continue to be subject to market fluctuations. the occurrence of any of the above risks could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price we have significant indebtedness, which could lead to adverse consequences or adversely affect our financial position and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under such indebtedness, and any refinancing of this debt could be at significantly higher interest rates . our level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including but not limited to: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes; 35 table of contents limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, challenges and opportunities, and changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and debt service requirements and other financing needs; increasing our vulnerability to increases in interest rates in general because a substantial portion of our indebtedness bears interest at floating rates; and placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt. our ability to service our indebtedness will depend on our future operating performance and financial results, which will be subject, in part, to factors beyond our control, including interest rates and general economic, financial and business conditions. if we do not have sufficient cash flow to service our indebtedness, we may need to refinance all or part of our existing indebtedness, borrow more money or sell securities or assets, some or all of which may not be available to us at acceptable terms or at all. in addition, we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. although the terms of our credit agreements and our bond indentures allow us to incur additional debt, this is subject to certain limitations which may preclude us from incurring the amount of indebtedness we otherwise desire. in addition, although mylan expects to maintain an investment grade credit rating, a downgrade in the credit rating of mylan or any indebtedness of mylan or its subsidiaries could increase the cost of further borrowings or refinancings of such indebtedness, limit access to sources of financing in the future or lead to other adverse consequences. in addition, if we incur additional debt, the risks described above could intensify. if global credit markets contract, future debt financing may not be available to us when required or may not be available on acceptable terms or at all, and as a result we may be unable to grow our business, take advantage of business opportunities, respond to competitive pressures or satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness. any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. our credit facilities, senior unsecured notes, commercial paper program, other outstanding indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we incur in the future impose, or may impose, significant operating and financial restrictions on us. these restrictions limit our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, make investments, pay certain dividends, prepay other indebtedness, sell assets, incur certain liens, enter into agreements with our affiliates or restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends, merge or consolidate. in addition, our credit facilities require us to maintain specified financial ratios. a breach of any of these covenants or our inability to maintain the required financial ratios could result in a default under the related indebtedness. if a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare our indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. there are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with u.s. gaap. any future changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions used or necessary revisions to prior estimates, judgments or assumptions or changes in accounting standards could lead to a restatement or revision to previously issued financial statements. the consolidated and condensed consolidated financial statements included in the periodic reports we file with the sec are prepared in accordance with u.s. gaap. the preparation of financial statements in accordance with u.s. gaap involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to change in the future and any necessary revisions to prior estimates, judgments or assumptions could lead to a restatement. furthermore, although we have recorded reserves for litigation related contingencies based on estimates of probable future costs, such litigation related contingencies could result in substantial further costs. also, any new or revised accounting standards may require adjustments to previously issued financial statements. any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. on august 17, 2017, the company announced that its subsidiaries, mylan inc. and mylan specialty l.p., signed an agreement with the u.s. department of justice ("doj") and two relators finalizing the $465 million settlement, plus interest, with the doj and other government agencies related to the classification of the epipen auto-injector for purposes of the medicaid drug rebate program that mylan had agreed to the terms of on october 7, 2016 (the medicaid drug rebate program settlement ). on april 25, 2017, mylan received a comment letter from the staff of the sec's division of corporation finance with respect to mylan's annual report on form 10-k for the year ended december 31, 2016, requesting information regarding mylan's accounting treatment of the $465 million medicaid drug rebate program settlement with the doj, including with respect to the determinations 36 table of contents that the settlement amount should be recorded as a charge against earnings in the third quarter of 2016 rather than against any earlier periods, and that the settlement amount should be classified as an expense rather than a reduction of revenue. any of the changes discussed above could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we must maintain adequate internal controls and be able to provide an assertion as to the effectiveness of such controls on an annual basis. effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports. we spend a substantial amount of management and other employee time and resources to comply with laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure. in the u.s., such regulations include the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, sec regulations and the nasdaq listing standards. in particular, section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 requires management's annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and attestation as to the effectiveness of these controls by our independent registered public accounting firm. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. additionally, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. in addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. our actual financial position and results of operations may differ materially from the unaudited pro forma financial information included in this annual report. the unaudited pro forma financial information contained in this annual report on form 10-k may not be indicative of what our financial position or results of operations would have been had the meda transaction been completed on the dates indicated, nor are they indicative of the future operating results of mylan n.v. the unaudited pro forma financial information has been derived from the historical consolidated financial statements of mylan n.v., mylan inc., and meda and reflects certain adjustments related to past operating performance and acquisition accounting adjustments, such as increased amortization expense based on the fair value of assets acquired, the impact of transaction costs, and the related income tax effects. the information upon which these adjustments have been made is subjective, and these types of adjustments are difficult to make with complete accuracy. accordingly, the actual financial position and results of our operations following the meda transaction may not be consistent with, or evident from, this unaudited pro forma financial information and other factors may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price, including, among others, those described herein. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 67 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange risk a significant portion of our revenues and earnings are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we seek to manage this foreign exchange risk in part through operational means, including managing same currency revenues in relation to same currency costs and same currency assets in relation to same currency liabilities. from time to time, foreign exchange risk is managed through the use of foreign currency forward-exchange contracts. these contracts are used to offset the potential earnings effects from mostly intercompany foreign currency assets and liabilities that arise from operations and from intercompany loans. mylan 's primary areas of foreign exchange risk relative to the u.s. dollar are the euro, swedish krona, indian rupee, japanese yen, australian dollar, canadian dollar, pound sterling and brazilian real . any unhedged foreign exchange exposures continue to be subject to market fluctuations. our financial instrument holdings at year end were analyzed to determine their sensitivity to foreign exchange rate changes. the fair values of these instruments were determined as follows: foreign currency forward-exchange contracts net present values foreign currency denominated receivables, payables, debt and loans changes in exchange rates in this sensitivity analysis, we assumed that the change in one currency's rate relative to the u.s. dollar would not have an effect on other currencies' rates relative to the u.s. dollar. all other factors were held constant. if there were an adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates of 10% , the expected net effect on net income related to mylan 's foreign currency denominated financial instruments would not be material . the company is also exposed to translation risk on non-u.s. dollar-denominated net assets. non-u.s. dollar borrowings, principally our euro denominated long-term debt, are used to hedge the foreign currency exposures of our net investment in certain foreign affiliates and are designated as hedges of net investments. the foreign exchange gains or losses on these hedges is included in the foreign currency translation component of accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss). if 67 table of contents our net investment decreases below the equivalent value of the non-u.s. debt borrowings, the change in the remeasurement basis of the debt would be subject to recognition in net income as changes occur. interest rate and long-term debt risk mylan 's exposure to interest rate risk arises primarily from our u.s. dollar and euro borrowings and u.s. dollar investments. we invest primarily on a variable-rate basis and we borrow on both a fixed and variable basis. in order to maintain a certain ratio of fixed to variable rate debt, from time to time, depending on market conditions, mylan will use derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps to fix interest rates on variable-rate borrowings or to convert fixed-rate borrowings to variable interest rates. as of december 31, 2018 , mylan 's long-term fixed rate borrowings consist principally of $12.5 billion notional amount of senior notes and euro notes. generally, the fair value of fixed interest rate debt will decrease as interest rates rise and increase as interest rates fall. as of december 31, 2018 , the fair value of our outstanding fixed rate senior notes and euro notes was approximately $13.1 billion . a 100 basis point change in interest rates on mylan 's variable rate debt, net of interest rate swaps, would result in a change in interest expense of approximately $14.3 million per year. 68 table of contentsrisk factors 14 risk factors of this annual report on form 10-k. research and development mylan has a globally integrated r&amp;d platform that is fueling our growth by filling our pipeline. we believe r&amp;d always has been one of mylan's core strengths. our scientific affairs team, which includes researchers and regulatory and clinical experts, numbers more than 3,000 people who work collaboratively across our 12 different r&amp;d centers around the world, including 10 technology-focused development sites and 2 global r&amp;d centers. consistent with mylan's drive for durability, the allocation of our investments over the last several years has shifted away from commodity products, such as conventional oral solid dosage forms, to more complex or difficult-to-formulate products, such as biosimilars. as a result, our product pipeline includes a variety of dosage forms. collectively, these investments represent more than 3,000 products under development or pending approval around the world. refer to the chart in the business segments section above for information pertaining to products in pipeline by major therapeutic area. 13 table of contents collaboration and licensing agreements we periodically enter into collaboration and licensing agreements with other pharmaceutical companies for the development, manufacture, marketing and/or sale of pharmaceutical products. doing so helps us share risks and costs, leverage strengths and scale up commercialization. the result often is that medicines become available sooner and to a significantly larger group of patients. our significant collaboration agreements are primarily focused on the development, manufacturing, supply and commercialization of multiple, high-value generic biosimilar compounds, insulin analog products and respiratory products, among other complex products. mylan's significant collaboration and licensing agreements include those with pfizer, momenta pharmaceuticals, inc. ( momenta ), theravance biopharma, inc. ( theravance biopharma ), biocon ltd. ( biocon ) and fujifilm kyowa kirin biologics co. ltd ( fkb ). refer to note 19 collaboration and licensing agreements included in item 8 in this annual report on form 10-k for more information. intellectual property mylan considers the protection of our intellectual property rights to be extremely valuable, and we act to protect them from infringement by third parties. we have an extensive trademark portfolio and routinely apply to register key brand-name, generic, branded generic, biosimilars and otc trade names in numerous countries around the world. our registered trademarks are renewable indefinitely, and these registrations are properly maintained in accordance with the laws of the countries in which they are registered. we also have an extensive patent portfolio and actively file for patent protection in various countries to protect our brand-name, generic, branded generic, biosimilars and otc products, including processes for making and using them. we have more than 5,000 patents filed globally. for additional information, see risk factors - we rely on the effectiveness of our patents, confidentiality agreements and other measures to protect our intellectual property rights . further, we have well-established safeguards in place to protect our proprietary know-how and trade secrets, both of which we consider extremely valuable to our intellectual property portfolio. we look for intellectual property licensing opportunities to or from third parties, related not only to our existing products, but as a means for expanding our product portfolio. we rely on the aforementioned types of intellectual property, as well as our copyrights, regulatory exclusivities and contractual protections, to establish a broad scope of intellectual property rights for our product portfolio. exchange act reports mylan maintains a website at mylan.com. we make available on or through it certain reports and associated amendments that the company files with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) in accordance with the securities exchange act of 1934 ( exchange act ). filings include our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports. we make this information available on our website free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. the contents of our website are not incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k and shall not be deemed filed under the exchange act. the sec also maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. item 1a. risk factors we operate in a complex and rapidly changing environment that involves risks, many of which are beyond our control. our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or share price could be materially affected by any of these risks, if they occur, or by other factors not currently known to us, or not currently considered to be material. these risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, as well as our other filings with the sec. as discussed in item 1. business of this annual report on form 10-k, mylan, pfizer, upjohn and certain of their 14 table of contents affiliates have entered into a business combination agreement pursuant to which they plan to effect the combination. in addition to the risks described below, other risks related to the combination, the upjohn business, the combined company's business and newco common stock are described in the registration statement on form s-4, which has been filed by upjohn with the sec and subsequently amended, and declared effective on february 13, 2020, form 10, which has been filed by upjohn with the sec and subsequently amended and has not yet been declared effective, and a definitive proxy statement of mylan, which has been filed by mylan on february 13, 2020. our risk factors are organized into five categories: combination, strategic, operational, compliance and finance. combination risks mylan, pfizer and upjohn may be unable to satisfy the conditions or obtain the approvals required to complete the combination, and regulatory agencies may delay or impose conditions on approval of the combination, which may diminish the anticipated benefits of the combination. failure to complete the combination could adversely impact the market price of our shares as well as our business and operating results. the consummation of the combination is subject to the satisfaction (or, if applicable, valid waiver) of various conditions, including (a) the expiration or termination of any applicable waiting period under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (the hsr act ) and the receipt of regulatory approvals in certain other jurisdictions, (b) the consummation of the separation and the distribution in accordance with the terms of the separation agreement (each as defined in item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k), (c) the approval of the combination by mylan shareholders, (d) the absence of any legal restraint (including legal actions or proceedings pursued by u.s. state authorities in the relevant states) preventing the consummation of the transactions, (e) in the case of pfizer's and newco's obligations to consummate the transactions, (i) the distribution of $12 billion in cash from upjohn to pfizer in accordance with the terms of the separation agreement and (ii) the receipt by pfizer of a u.s. internal revenue service ( irs ) ruling and tax opinion of its tax counsel with respect to the combination, and (f) other customary closing conditions. we cannot make any assurances that these conditions will be satisfied (or, if applicable, validly waived) in a timely manner or at all, in which case closing of the combination may be delayed or may not occur and the benefits expected to result from the combination may not be achieved. any delay in the completion of the combination could diminish anticipated benefits of the combination or result in additional transaction costs, loss of revenue or other effects associated with uncertainty about the combination. to the extent that the market price of our ordinary shares reflects positive market assumptions that the combination will be consummated, the price of our ordinary shares may decline if the combination is not consummated for any reason or in a timely manner. we may also be subject to additional risks if the combination is not consummated, including: the requirement that we pay pfizer a termination fee of $322 million if the combination is not consummated because the business combination agreement is terminated under certain circumstances; the requirement that we must reimburse pfizer up to $96 million of pfizer's reasonable out-of-pocket costs, fees and expenses in connection with the transactions, if our shareholders do not approve the combination and the business combination agreement is terminated by either pfizer or us; the fact that substantial costs related to the combination incurred by us, such as legal, accounting, filing, financial advisory and financial printing fees, must be paid regardless of whether the combination is consummated; and possible negative reactions from our customers, regulators and employees. the pendency of the combination could adversely affect our business and operations. whether the combination is ultimately consummated or not, its pendency could have a number of negative effects on our current business, including potentially disrupting our regular operations, diverting the attention of our workforce and management team, or increasing workforce turnover. the completion of the combination, including, for example, obtaining regulatory approvals, will require significant time and attention from our management and may divert attention from the day-to-day operations of our business. any uncertainty over the ability of pfizer, us and upjohn to complete the combination could make it more difficult for us to retain key employees or attract new talent, or to pursue business strategies. parties with which we have business relationships, either contractual or operational, may experience uncertainty as to the future or desirability of such relationships and may delay or defer certain business decisions, seek alternative relationships with third parties or seek to alter their present business relationships with us. parties with whom we otherwise may have sought to establish business relationships may seek alternative relationships with third parties. additionally, we have contracts with certain 15 table of contents customers, suppliers, vendors, distributors, lenders, and other business partners, and these contracts may require us to obtain consent from these other parties in connection with the combination. obtaining such consents may be difficult and could impose costs on us, including renegotiating such contracts on terms less favorable to us, which in turn may result in us suffering a loss of potential future revenue, incurring contractual liabilities or losing rights that are material to our business. the business combination agreement subjects us to restrictions on certain of our business activities and obligates us to generally operate our business in the ordinary course in all material respects consistent with past practice prior to completion of the combination. these restrictions could prevent us from pursuing attractive business opportunities that arise prior to the completion of the combination and are outside the ordinary course of business, or otherwise have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. the business combination agreement also subjects us to certain restrictions on our ability to solicit any alternative transaction proposal during the pendency of the combination, although in certain circumstances we may make a change in recommendation in response to an unsolicited alternative transaction proposal that our board of directors determines is more favorable to us and our shareholders and other stakeholders than the combination. strategic risks we do not anticipate paying dividends for the foreseeable future, and our shareholders must rely on increases in the trading price of our ordinary shares to obtain a return on their investment. mylan n.v. does not anticipate paying dividends in the immediate future. we anticipate that we will retain all earnings, if any, to support our operations and to opportunistically pursue additional transactions to deliver additional shareholder value. any future determination as to the payment of dividends will, subject to dutch law requirements, be at the sole discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our financial position, results of operations, capital requirements, and other factors our board of directors deems relevant at that time. holders of mylan n.v.'s ordinary shares must rely on increases in the trading price of their shares to obtain a return on their investment in the foreseeable future. the market price of our ordinary shares may be volatile, and the value of your investment could materially decline. investors who hold mylan n.v.'s ordinary shares may not be able to sell their shares at or above the price at which they purchased such shares. the share price of mylan n.v.'s ordinary shares fluctuates materially from time to time, including significant declines in the past few years, and we cannot predict the price of our ordinary shares at any given time. the risks described herein could cause the price of our ordinary shares to fluctuate materially. in addition, the stock market in general, including the market for pharmaceutical companies, has experienced price and volume fluctuations. these broad market and industry factors may materially harm the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our operating performance. in addition, the price of our ordinary shares may be affected by the valuations and recommendations of the analysts who cover us, and if our results do not meet the analysts' forecasts and expectations, the price of our ordinary shares could decline as a result of analysts lowering their valuations and recommendations or otherwise. following periods of volatility in the market and/or in the price of a company's stock, securities class-action litigation actions have been instituted against us and other companies. such litigation has in the past and could in the future result in substantial costs and diversion of management's attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. in addition, we or our shareholders also may offer or sell our ordinary shares or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for ordinary shares. an increase in the number of ordinary shares issued and outstanding and the possibility of sales of ordinary shares or securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for ordinary shares may depress the future trading price of our ordinary shares. furthermore, if additional offerings occur, the voting power of our then existing shareholders may be diluted. our strategic initiatives may not achieve all intended benefits. there can be no assurance that our strategic initiatives will achieve their intended effects. we continually evaluate various strategic transactions and business arrangements, including acquisitions, asset purchases, partnerships, joint ventures, restructurings, divestitures, product rationalization, investments, market selection and market strategy on an ongoing basis. these transactions and arrangements may be material both from a strategic and financial perspective. there can be no assurance that we will be able to fully realize the expected benefits of any transactions or restructurings or successfully complete the integration of acquired businesses or assets. furthermore, although our expectation is to engage in asset sales only if they advance or otherwise support our overall strategy, any such sale could reduce the size or scope of our business, our market share in particular markets or our opportunities with respect to certain markets, products or therapeutic categories. during the pendency of the combination, these activities and initiatives are subject to applicable operating covenants set forth in the business combination agreement and as discussed in the pendency of the combination could adversely affect our business and operations above. 16 table of contents the difficulties of achieving the benefits of strategic initiatives include, among others: the diversion of management's attention to integration matters and restructuring activities; difficulties in achieving anticipated synergies, operating efficiencies, business opportunities, and growth prospects from restructuring or business transformation activities or business or asset combinations within the expected timeframe or at all; difficulties in the integration of operations and information technology ( it ) applications, including enterprise resource planning ( erp ) systems; difficulties in the integration of employees; difficulties in managing the operations of a larger or more complex company; challenges in keeping existing customers and obtaining new customers; challenges in reducing reliance on transition services prior to the expiration of any period in which such services are provided by a transaction counterparty; difficulties in obtaining a favorable price for any divestiture, in a timely manner or at all; challenges in moving or rationalizing production facilities, including obtaining the consent of customers or regulatory authorities; operational or financial difficulties that would not have occurred if acquired companies, businesses, or assets continued operating in their former structures; challenges in attracting and retaining key personnel; and the complexities of managing relationships with transaction counterparties and other business partners, including service agreements, development and manufacturing relationships, and license arrangements. the overall execution of a strategic initiative, including the integration of a business or asset or restructuring activities, may result in material unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities, competitive responses, loss of customer relationships, and diversion of management's and/or employee's attention, among other potential adverse consequences, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we may be adversely affected by significant scrutiny from third parties, including governments, or negative publicity with respect to matters relating to our products, pricing practices and other matters. the company has been subject to significant press coverage and scrutiny from third parties, including regulators, legislative bodies and enforcement agencies, with respect to matters relating to our business, pricing practices, and other matters. this coverage and public scrutiny have included assertions of wrongdoing against the company which, regardless of the factual or legal basis for such assertions, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, investigations, and calls for investigations, by governmental agencies at both the federal and state levels, claims brought against the company by governmental agencies or private parties, and regulators taking other measures that could have a negative effect on the company's business. for example, both the u.s. house of representatives and the u.s. senate have conducted hearings with respect to pharmaceutical drug pricing practices and alleged anti-competitive behavior by pharmaceutical companies, and additional hearings are likely. ongoing focus on these issues has in the past led and in the future could lead to investigations of price increases and other business practices of specific pharmaceutical companies, including mylan. it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of any such investigations or claims or what other investigations or lawsuits or regulatory responses may result from such assertions. there has also recently been intense publicity regarding the pricing of pharmaceuticals more generally, including publicity and pressure resulting from prices charged by competitors and peer companies for new products as well as price increases by competitors and peer companies on older products that some have deemed excessive. we have experienced and may continue to experience downward pricing pressure on the price of certain of our products due to social or political pressure to lower the cost of drugs, which could reduce our revenue and future profitability. any of the above developments could result in reputational harm and reduced market acceptance and demand for our products, could harm our ability to market our products in the future, could cause us to incur significant expense, could cause our senior management to be distracted from execution of our business strategy, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or ordinary share price. 17 table of contents we have and may continue to experience pressure on the pricing of and reimbursements for certain of our products due to consolidation among purchasers or social and political pressure to lower the cost of drugs. we operate in a challenging environment, with significant pressures on the pricing of our products and on our ability to obtain and maintain satisfactory rates of reimbursement for our products by governments, insurers and other payors. the growth of overall healthcare costs has led governments and payors to implement new measures to control healthcare spending. as a result, we face numerous cost-containment measures by governments and other payors, including certain government-imposed industry-wide price reductions, mandatory rebates or pricing, international reference pricing (i.e., the practice of a country linking its regulated medicine prices to those of other countries), volume-based procurement, tender systems, shifting of the payment burden to patients through higher co-payments, and requirements for increased transparency on pricing. in the u.s., certain of these pressures are further compounded by increasing consolidation among wholesalers, retailer drug chains, pharmacy benefit managers ( pbms ), private insurers, managed care organizations and other private payors, which can increase their negotiating power, particularly with respect to our generic drugs. please also refer to a significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales to a limited number of customers. there has also been increasing u.s. federal and state legislative and enforcement interest with respect to drug pricing. in particular, u.s. federal prosecutors have issued subpoenas to pharmaceutical companies, including mylan, seeking information about their drug pricing practices, among other issues, and members of the congress have sought information from certain pharmaceutical companies, including mylan, relating to drug-price increases. in addition, there has been legislation and legislative proposals concerning drug prices and related issues, including the perceived need to bring more transparency to drug pricing, reviewing the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reforming government program reimbursement methodologies for drugs. for example, california, oregon and several other states have recently implemented legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to provide greater transparency with respect to drug prices and price increases and other states are considering similar legislation. i n addition, congress continues to consider drug pricing legislation that, if passed and signed into law, could impact companies' ability to increase prices for prescription drugs. the current u.s. administration has also focused on lowering drug prices, through, for instance, the u.s. department of health and human services and fda's safe importation action plan announced in july 2019. these types of initiatives, at the federal or state level, could affect demand for, or pricing of, our products and we cannot predict what, if any, additional legislative developments may transpire or what the ultimate impact may be. any of the events or developments described above could have a material adverse impact on our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or ordinary share price. current and changing economic conditions may adversely affect our industry, business, partners and suppliers. the global economy continues to experience significant volatility, and the economic environment may become less favorable. economic volatility, governmental financial restructuring efforts and evolving deficit and spending reduction programs could negatively impact the global economy and the pharmaceutical industry. this has led, or could lead, to reduced consumer and customer spending, reduced or eliminated governmental or third-party payor coverage or reimbursement or reduced spending on healthcare, including but not limited to pharmaceutical products. while generic drugs present an alternative to higher-priced branded products, our sales could be negatively impacted if patients forego obtaining healthcare, patients and customers reduce spending or purchases, or if governments or third-party payors reduce or eliminate coverage or reimbursement amounts for pharmaceuticals or impose price or other controls adversely impacting the price or availability of pharmaceuticals. in addition, reduced consumer and customer spending, reduced government or third-party payor coverage or reimbursement, or new government controls, may drive us and our competitors to decrease prices, may reduce the ability of customers to pay, or may result in reduced demand for our products. the occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our industry, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we have significant operations globally, which exposes us to the risks inherent in conducting our business internationally . our operations extend to numerous countries globally, including our significant operations in india, and are subject to the risks inherent in conducting business globally and under the laws, regulations, and customs of various jurisdictions. these risks include, but are not limited to: compliance with the national and local laws of countries in which we do business, including, but not limited to, data privacy and protection, import/export and intellectual property protections; 18 table of contents less established legal and regulatory regimes in certain jurisdictions, including with respect to the enforcement of intellectual property rights; compliance with a variety of u.s. laws including, but not limited to, regulations put forth by the u.s. treasury's office of foreign assets control, the iran threat reduction and syria human rights act of 2012 and rules relating to the use of certain conflict minerals under section 1502 of the dodd-frank wall street reform and the consumer protection act; changes in laws, regulations, and practices affecting the pharmaceutical industry and the healthcare system, including but not limited to imports, exports, manufacturing, quality, cost, pricing, reimbursement, approval, inspection, and delivery of healthcare; changes in policies designed to promote foreign investment, including significant tax incentives, liberalized import and export duties, and preferential rules on foreign investment and repatriation; increased congressional scrutiny of overseas pharmaceutical manufacturing and policy proposals related to increasing u.s. production of pharmaceutical products and api; differing local product preferences and product requirements; adverse changes in the economies in which we or our partners and suppliers operate as a result of a slowdown in overall growth, a change in government or economic policies, or financial, political, or social change or instability in such countries that affects the markets in which we operate, particularly emerging markets; changes in employment laws, wage increases, or rising inflation in the countries in which we or our partners and suppliers operate; supply disruptions and increases in energy and transportation costs; increased tariffs on the import or export of our products or api, including on imports from china to the u.s.; natural or man-made disasters, including droughts, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes and the impact of climate change in the countries in which we or our partners and suppliers operate; local disturbances, the outbreak of highly contagious diseases or other health epidemics (such as coronavirus), terrorist attacks, riots, social disruption, wars, or regional hostilities in the countries in which we or our partners and suppliers operate and that could affect the economy, our operations and employees by disrupting operations and communications, making travel and the conduct of our business more difficult, and/or causing our customers to be concerned about our ability to meet their needs; and government uncertainty, including as a result of new or changed laws and regulations. we also face the risk that some of our competitors have more experience with operations in such countries or with international operations generally and may be able to manage unexpected crises more easily. moreover, the internal political stability of, or the relationship between, any country or countries where we conduct business operations may deteriorate. changes in a country's political stability or the state of relations between any such countries are difficult to predict and the political or social stability in and/or diplomatic relations between any countries in which we or our partners and suppliers do business could meaningfully deteriorate. for example, the formal change in the relationship between the european union ( eu ) and the u.k. as a result of the u.k. referendum to leave the eu ( brexit ) could impact our business. pursuant to the withdrawal agreement between the u.k. and the eu, the u.k. formally withdrew from the eu on january 31, 2020 with status quo arrangements through a transition period. the transition period began on february 1, 2020 and is expected to last until december 31, 2020. while the withdrawal agreement provides for the possibility of one or more extensions of this transition period for up to two additional years, the united kingdom has currently ruled out any such extension. during this transition period, the u.k. and the eu will negotiate a final agreement to govern their long-term relationship (the final agreement ); however, if no agreement is reached before december 31, 2020 and no extension to the transition period is agreed to, a no-deal brexit will occur on december 31, 2020. since final agreement negotiations are ongoing and a no-deal brexit is still possible, the impact of brexit on us remains uncertain. it continues to be the case that brexit could lead to divergent national laws and regulations, import/export restrictions, and potential changes to intellectual property rights, regulatory approval requirements and pharmaceutical regulations in the eu and the u.k., which could materially impact the way we conduct our operations in those markets. in addition, because we are tax resident in the u.k., the u.k. withdrawal from the eu could, depending on the results of the ongoing final agreement negotiations, eliminate the benefit of certain tax treaties and tax-related eu directives. any of these potential effects of brexit, and others we cannot anticipate, could negatively affect our business and financial results. 19 table of contents in addition, in december 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus was reported to have surfaced in wuhan, hubei province, china. at the time of this filing, the outbreak has been largely concentrated in china, although cases have been confirmed in numerous other countries. in order to inhibit the spread of coronavirus, many manufacturing facilities throughout china have been shut down or are operating at lower capacities, which could impact the supply of api and other pharmaceutical product components from china. the extent to which the coronavirus impacts mylan's operations, including continued or increased disruptions to the supply chain, will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including new information which may emerge concerning the severity of the coronavirus and the actions to contain the coronavirus or treat its impact, among others. the occurrence of any one or more of the above risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. charges to earnings resulting from acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and/or ordinary share price . under accounting principles generally accepted in the u.s. ( u.s. gaap ) relating to business acquisition accounting standards, we recognize the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interests in acquired companies generally at their acquisition date fair values and, in each case, separately from goodwill. goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess amount of consideration transferred, which is also generally measured at fair value, and the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain. after we complete an acquisition, the following factors could result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results and may adversely affect our cash flows: costs incurred to combine the operations of companies we acquire, such as transitional employee expenses and employee retention, redeployment or relocation expenses; impairment of goodwill or intangible assets, including acquired in-process research and development ( ipr&amp;d ); amortization of intangible assets acquired; a reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired; identification of or changes to assumed contingent liabilities, including, but not limited to, contingent purchase price consideration including fair value adjustments, income tax contingencies and other non-income tax contingencies, after our final determination of the amounts for these contingencies or the conclusion of the measurement period (generally up to one year from the acquisition date), whichever comes first; charges to our operating results to eliminate certain duplicative pre-acquisition activities, to restructure our operations or to reduce our cost structure; and charges to our operating results resulting from expenses incurred to effect the acquisition. a significant portion of these adjustments could be accounted for as expenses that will decrease our net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those costs are incurred. in particular, the amount of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets in our consolidated balance sheets is significant as a result of our acquisitions and other transactions, and may increase further following future potential acquisitions, and we may, from time to time, sell assets that we determine are not critical to our strategy or execution. future events or decisions may also lead to asset impairments and/or related charges. certain non-cash impairments may result from a change in our strategic goals, business direction or other factors relating to the overall business environment. any such charges could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, shareholders' equity and/or ordinary share price. the illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit versions of our products or of diverted or stolen products could have a negative impact on our reputation and our business. the pharmaceutical drug supply has been increasingly challenged by the vulnerability of distribution channels to illegal counterfeiting and the presence of counterfeit products in a growing number of markets and over the internet. third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit versions of our products that do not meet the rigorous manufacturing and testing standards that our products undergo. counterfeit products are frequently unsafe or ineffective and can 20 table of contents be potentially life-threatening. counterfeit medicines may contain harmful substances, the wrong dose of api or no api at all. however, to distributors and users, counterfeit products may be visually indistinguishable from the authentic version. reports of adverse reactions to counterfeit drugs or increased levels of counterfeiting could materially affect patient confidence in the authentic product. it is possible that adverse events caused by unsafe counterfeit products will mistakenly be attributed to the authentic product. in addition, unauthorized diversions of products or thefts of inventory at warehouses, plants, or while in-transit, which are not properly stored, or which are sold through unauthorized channels, could adversely impact patient safety, our reputation, and our business. public loss of confidence in the integrity of pharmaceutical products as a result of counterfeiting, diversion, or theft could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we face vigorous competition that threatens the commercial acceptance and pricing of our products . the pharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. we face competition from other pharmaceutical manufacturers globally, some of whom are significantly larger than we are. our competitors may be able to develop products and processes competitive with or superior to our own for many reasons, including but not limited to the possibility that they may have: proprietary processes or delivery systems; larger or more productive r&amp;d and marketing staff; larger or more efficient production capabilities in a particular therapeutic area; more experience in preclinical testing and human clinical trials; more products; or more experience in developing new drugs and greater financial resources, particularly with regard to manufacturers of branded products. we also face increasing competition from lower-cost generic products and other branded products. certain of our products are not protected by patent rights or have limited patent life and will soon lose patent protection. loss of patent protection for a product typically is followed promptly with the launch of generic products. as a result, sales of many of these products may decline or stop growing over time. various factors may result in the sales of certain of our products declining faster than has been projected. in addition, legislative proposals emerge from time to time in various jurisdictions to further encourage the early and rapid approval of generic drugs. any such proposal that is enacted into law could increase competition and worsen this negative effect on our sales. competitors' products may also be safer, more effective, more effectively marketed or sold, or have lower prices or better performance features than ours. we cannot predict with certainty the timing or impact of competitors' products. pbms and other pharmaceutical manufacturers may utilize contracting strategies that could decrease generic utilization and negatively impact our products. in addition, our sales may suffer as a result of changes in consumer demand for our products, including those related to fluctuations in consumer buying patterns tied to seasonality, importation by consumers or the introduction of new products by competitors. the occurrence of any of the above risks could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. a relatively small group of products may represent a significant portion of our revenues, net sales, gross profit, or net earnings from time to time. sales of a limited number of our products from time to time represent a significant portion of our revenues, net sales, gross profit, and net earnings. for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018, mylan's top ten products in terms of sales, in the aggregate, represented approximately 23% and 20% , respectively, of the company's net sales. if the volume or pricing of our largest selling products declines in the future, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price could be materially adversely affected. 21 table of contents our business could be negatively affected by the performance of our third-party collaboration partners. we have entered into strategic alliances with partners to develop, manufacture, market and/or distribute certain products, and/or certain components of our products, in various markets. we commit substantial effort, funds and other resources to these various collaborations, including with respect to the development of biosimilar products. there is a risk that the investments made by us in these collaborative arrangements will not generate financial returns. while we believe our relationships with our partners generally are successful, disputes or conflicting priorities and regulatory or legal intervention could be a source of delay or uncertainty as to the expected benefits of the collaboration. in addition, we enter into agreements with our collaboration partners that provide for certain services, as well as cross manufacturing, development and licensing arrangements. a failure or inability of our partners to fulfill their collaboration obligations, or the occurrence of any of the risks above, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we may experience reductions in the levels of reimbursement for pharmaceutical products by governmental authorities, health maintenance organizations ( hmos ), or other third-party payors. in addition, the use of tender systems and other forms of price control, including legislative or regulatory programs impacting pharmaceutical prices, could reduce prices for our products or reduce our market opportunities. various governmental authorities (including, among others, the u.k. national health service and the german statutory health insurance scheme) and private health insurers and other organizations, such as hmos in the u.s., provide reimbursements or subsidies to consumers for the cost of certain pharmaceutical products. demand for our products depends in part on the extent to which such reimbursement is available. in the u.s., third-party payors increasingly challenge the pricing of pharmaceutical products. these trends and other trends toward the growth of hmos, managed healthcare, and legislative healthcare reform create significant uncertainties regarding the future levels of reimbursement for pharmaceutical products. further, any reimbursement may be reduced in the future to the point that market demand for our products and/or our profitability declines. such a decline could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. in addition, current or future u.s. federal, u.s. state or other countries' laws and regulations may influence the prices of drugs and, therefore, could adversely affect the payments we receive for our products. for example, existing programs in certain u.s. states seek to broadly set prices within those states through the regulation and administration of the sale of prescription drugs. expansion of these programs, and, in particular, changes to state medicare and/or medicaid programs, or changes required in the way in which medicare payment rates are set and/or the way medicaid rebates are calculated, could adversely affect the payment we receive for our products. in order to control expenditure on pharmaceuticals, most member states in the eu regulate the pricing of products and, in some cases, limit the range of different forms of pharmaceuticals available for prescription by national health services. these controls can result in considerable price differences between member states. several countries in which we operate have implemented, or plan to or may implement, government mandated price reductions and/or other controls. for example, china has implemented a volume-based procurement process and other measures designed to decrease prices for non-patented drug products. when such price controls occur, pharmaceutical companies have generally experienced significant declines in revenues and profitability and uncertainties continue to exist within the market after the price decrease. such price reductions or controls could have an adverse effect on our business, and as uncertainties are resolved or if other countries in which we operate enact similar measures, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. a number of markets in which we operate have also implemented or may implement tender systems for generic pharmaceuticals in an effort to lower prices. under such tender systems, manufacturers submit bids which establish prices for generic pharmaceutical products. upon winning the tender, the winning company will receive a preferential reimbursement for a period of time. the tender system often results in companies underbidding one another by proposing low pricing in order to win the tender. other markets may also consider the implementation of a tender system or other forms of price controls. even if a tender system is ultimately not implemented, the anticipation of such could result in price reductions. failing to win tenders, or the implementation of similar systems or other forms of price controls in other markets leading to further price declines, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. healthcare reform legislation could have a material adverse effect on our business. in recent years, there have been numerous initiatives on the federal and state levels for comprehensive reforms affecting the payment for, the availability of and reimbursement for, healthcare services in the u.s., and it is likely that congress and state 22 table of contents legislatures and health agencies will continue to focus on healthcare reform in the future. the patient protection and affordable care act ( ppaca ) and the health care and education and reconciliation act of 2010 (h.r. 4872), which amends the ppaca (collectively, the health reform laws ), were signed into law in march 2010. while the health reform laws increased the number of patients who have insurance coverage for our products, they also included provisions such as the assessment of a pharmaceutical manufacturer fee and an increase in the amount of rebates that manufacturers pay for coverage of their drugs by medicaid programs. the health reform laws continue to face uncertainty due to administrative efforts to repeal, substantially modify or invalidate some or all provisions of the health reform laws, as well as challenges to their constitutionality. further, congress continues to consider drug pricing legislation that, if passed and signed into law, could impact companies' ability to increase prices for products beyond the rate of inflation. we are unable to predict the future course of federal or state healthcare legislation, including the outcome of challenges to such laws once passed. the health reform laws and further changes in the law or regulatory framework that reduce our revenues or increase our costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. additionally, we encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries. in the eu and some other international markets, the government provides healthcare at low cost to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices, patient eligibility and/or reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. these systems of price regulations may lead to inconsistent and lower prices. within the eu and in other countries, the availability of our products in some markets at lower prices undermines our sales in other markets with higher prices. additionally, certain countries set prices by reference to the prices in other countries where our products are marketed. thus, our inability to secure adequate prices in a particular country may also impair our ability to obtain acceptable prices in existing and potential new markets, and may create the opportunity for third party cross border trade. significant additional reforms to the u.s. or eu healthcare systems, or to the healthcare systems of other markets in which we operate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. provisions in our governance arrangements or that are otherwise available under dutch law could discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of us and may affect the market price of our ordinary shares. some provisions of our governance arrangements that are available under dutch law, such as our grant to a dutch foundation ( stichting ) of a call option to acquire preferred shares to safeguard the interests of the company, its businesses and its stakeholders against threats to our strategy, mission, independence, continuity and/or identity, may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of us, even if such a change in control is sought by our shareholders. the expansion of social media platforms presents new risks and challenges. to the extent that we seek to use social media tools as a means to communicate about our products and/or business, there are uncertainties as to the rules that apply to such communications, or as to the interpretations that authorities will apply to the rules that exist. as a result, despite our efforts to monitor evolving social media communication guidelines and comply with applicable rules, there is risk that our use of social media for such purposes may cause us to be found in violation of them. our employees may knowingly or inadvertently make use of social media tools in ways that may not be aligned with our social media strategy, may give rise to liability, or could lead to the loss of material non-public information, trade secrets or other intellectual property, or public exposure of personal information (including sensitive personal information) of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. in addition, negative posts or comments about us on any social media website could damage our reputation. any of the above risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. operational risks our failure to comply with applicable environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations worldwide could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we are subject globally to various laws and regulations concerning, among other things, the environment, climate change, regulation of chemicals, employee safety and product safety. these requirements include regulation of the handling, manufacture, transportation, storage, use and disposal of materials, including the discharge of regulated materials and pollutants into the environment. in the normal course of our business, we are exposed to risks relating to possible releases of hazardous substances into the environment, which could cause environmental or property damage or personal injuries, and which could result in (i) our 23 table of contents noncompliance with such environmental and occupational health and safety laws and regulations and (ii) regulatory enforcement actions or claims for personal injury and property damage against us. if an unapproved environmental discharge occurs, or if we discover contamination caused by prior operations, including by prior owners and operators of properties we acquire, we could be liable for cleanup obligations, damages and fines. the substantial unexpected costs we may incur could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. in addition, our environmental capital expenditures and costs for environmental compliance may increase substantially in the future as a result of changes in global environmental health and safety laws and regulations, the development and manufacturing of a new product or increased development or manufacturing activities at any of our facilities. we may be required to expend significant funds and our manufacturing activities could be delayed or suspended, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. the pharmaceutical industry is heavily regulated, and we face significant costs and uncertainties associated with our efforts to comply with applicable laws and regulations. the pharmaceutical industry is subject to regulation by various governmental authorities. for instance, we must comply with applicable laws and requirements of the fda and other regulatory agencies, including foreign authorities, with respect to the research, development, manufacture, quality, safety, effectiveness, approval, labeling, tracking, tracing, authentication, storage, record-keeping, reporting, pharmacovigilance, sale, distribution, import, export, marketing, advertising, and promotion of pharmaceutical products. we are committed to conducting our business, including the sale and marketing of our products, in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. these laws and regulations, however, are numerous and complex and it is possible that a governmental authority may challenge our activities, or that an employee or agent could violate these laws and regulations without our knowledge. failure to comply with regulations of the fda and other u.s. and foreign regulators could result in a range of consequences, including, but not limited to, fines, penalties, disgorgement, exclusion from u.s. federal healthcare reimbursement programs, unanticipated compliance expenditures, suspension of review of applications or other submissions, rejection or delay in approval of applications, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, our inability to sell products, the return by customers of our products, injunctions, and/or criminal prosecution. under certain circumstances, a regulator may also have the authority to revoke or vary previously granted drug approvals. the safety profile of any product will continue to be closely monitored by the fda and comparable foreign regulatory authorities after approval. if the fda or comparable foreign regulatory authorities become aware of new safety information about any of our marketed or investigational products, those authorities may require further inspections, enhancements to manufacturing controls, labeling changes, establishment of a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy or similar strategy, restrictions on a product's indicated uses or marketing, or post-approval studies or post-market surveillance. in addition, we are subject to regulations in various jurisdictions, including the federal drug supply chain security act in the u.s., the falsified medicines directive in the eu and several other such regulations in other countries that require us to develop electronic systems to serialize, track, trace and authenticate units of our products through the supply chain and distribution system. compliance with these regulations has in the past and may in the future result in increased expenses for us or impose greater administrative burdens on our organization, and failure to meet these requirements could result in fines or other penalties. the fda and comparable regulatory authorities also regulate the facilities and operational procedures that we use to manufacture our products. we must register our facilities with the fda and similar regulators in other countries. products must be manufactured in our facilities in accordance with cgmp or similar standards in each territory in which we manufacture. compliance with such regulations and with our own quality standards requires substantial expenditures of time, money, and effort in multiple areas, including training of personnel, record-keeping, production, and quality control and quality assurance. the fda and other regulatory authorities, including foreign authorities, periodically inspect our manufacturing facilities for compliance with cgmp or similar standards in the applicable territory. regulatory approval to manufacture a drug is granted on a site-specific basis. failure to comply with cgmp and other regulatory standards at one of our or our partners' or suppliers' manufacturing facilities could result in an adverse action brought by the fda or other regulatory authorities, which could result in a receipt of an untitled or warning letter, fines, penalties, disgorgement, unanticipated compliance expenditures, rejection or delay in approval of applications, suspension of review of applications or other submissions, suspension of ongoing clinical trials, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production and/or distribution, our inability to sell products, the return by customers of our products, orders to suspend, vary, or withdraw marketing authorizations, injunctions, consent decrees, requirements to modify promotional materials or issue corrective information to healthcare practitioners, refusal to permit import or export, criminal prosecution and/or other adverse actions. if any regulatory body were to delay, withhold, or withdraw approval of an application; require a recall or other adverse product action; require one of our manufacturing facilities to cease or limit production; or suspend, vary, or withdraw related marketing authorization, our business could be adversely affected. delay and cost in obtaining fda or other regulatory approval 24 table of contents to manufacture at a different facility also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. although we have established internal quality and regulatory compliance programs and policies, there is no guarantee that these programs and policies, as currently designed, will meet regulatory agency standards in the future or will prevent instances of non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations. additionally, despite efforts at compliance, from time to time we or our partners receive notices of manufacturing and quality-related observations following inspections by regulatory authorities around the world, as well as official agency correspondence regarding compliance. for example, on november 5, 2019 the fda issued a warning letter to mylan's api manufacturer mylan laboratories limited unit 8 relating to the manufacturing of valsartan api and nitrosamine impurities. mylan has provided a thorough response to the fda regarding the issues identified and remediation is ongoing. in addition, on november 9, 2018, the fda issued a warning letter with respect to our manufacturing plant in morgantown, west virginia. this action resulted from previously disclosed observations of the plant made by fda in april 2018. we have implemented comprehensive restructuring and remediation activities at our morgantown plant, and the issues raised in the warning letter are being addressed within the context of these activities. however, we or our partners may receive similar observations and correspondence in the future. if we are unable to resolve these observations and address regulator's concerns in a timely fashion, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price could be materially affected. we utilize controlled substances in certain of our current products and products in development, and therefore must meet the requirements of the controlled substances act of 1970 and the related regulations administered by the drug enforcement agency ( dea ) in the u.s., as well as those of similar laws in other countries where we operate. these laws relate to the manufacture, shipment, storage, sale, and use of controlled substances. the dea and other regulatory agencies limit the availability of the controlled substances used in certain of our current products and products in development and, as a result, our procurement quota of these active ingredients may not be sufficient to meet commercial demand or complete clinical trials. we must annually apply to the dea and similar regulatory agencies for procurement quotas in order to obtain these substances. any delay or refusal by the dea or such similar agencies in establishing our procurement quota for controlled substances could delay or stop our clinical trials or product launches, or could cause trade inventory disruptions for those products that have already been launched. in addition, some states have passed laws and regulations imposing assessments on the sale or distribution of certain controlled substances, and other states are considering and may implement similar laws and regulations in the future. the occurrence of any of the above risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. the use of legal, regulatory, and legislative strategies by both brand and generic competitors, including but not limited to authorized generics and regulatory petitions, may increase costs associated with the introduction or marketing of our generic products, could delay or prevent such introduction, and could significantly reduce our revenue and profit . our competitors, both branded and generic, often pursue strategies to prevent or delay generic alternatives to branded products. these strategies include, but are not limited to: entering into agreements whereby other generic companies will begin to market an authorized generic, which is the approved brand-name drug without the brand-name on its label, at the same time or after generic competition initially enters the market; launching their own authorized generic product prior to or at the same time or after generic competition initially enters the market; pricing a branded product at a discount equivalent to generic pricing, as was the case for copaxone after the launch of our generic glatiramer acetate products; filing petitions with the fda or other regulatory bodies seeking to prevent or delay approvals, including timing the filings so as to thwart generic competition by causing delays of our product approvals; contracting strategies among pharmaceutical manufacturers and pbms that could decrease generic or biosimilar utilization and negatively impact our product launches; seeking to establish regulatory and legal obstacles that would make it more difficult to demonstrate bioequivalence or to meet other requirements for approval, and/or to prevent regulatory agency review of applications; initiating legislative or other efforts to limit the substitution of generic versions of brand pharmaceuticals; filing suits for patent infringement and other claims that may delay or prevent regulatory approval, manufacture, and/or sale of generic products; introducing next-generation products prior to the expiration of market exclusivity for the reference product, which often materially reduces the demand for the generic or the reference product for which we seek regulatory approval; 25 table of contents persuading regulatory bodies to withdraw the approval of brand-name drugs for which the patents are about to expire and converting the market to another product of the brand company on which longer patent protection exists; obtaining extensions of market exclusivity by conducting clinical trials of brand drugs in pediatric populations or by other methods; and seeking to obtain new patents on drugs for which patent protection is about to expire. in the u.s., some companies have lobbied congress for amendments to the drug price competition and patent term restoration act of 1984 (the hatch-waxman act ) that would give them additional advantages over generic competitors. for example, although the term of a company's drug patent can be extended to reflect a portion of the time a new drug application ( nda , which is filed in the u.s. with the fda when approval is sought to market a newly developed branded product and, in certain instances, for a new dosage form, a new delivery system or a new indication for a previously approved drug) is under regulatory review, some companies have proposed extending the patent term by a full year for each year spent in clinical trials rather than the one-half year that is currently permitted. if proposals like these in the u.s., europe, or in other countries where we or our partners and suppliers operate were to become effective, or if any other actions by our competitors and other third parties to prevent or delay activities necessary to the approval, manufacture, or distribution of our products are successful, our entry into the market and our ability to generate revenues associated with new products may be delayed, reduced, or eliminated, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. if we are unable to successfully introduce new products in a timely manner, our future revenue and profitability may be adversely affected. our future revenues and profitability will depend, in part, upon our ability to successfully and timely develop, license, or otherwise acquire and commercialize new products. product development is inherently risky, especially for new drugs for which safety and efficacy have not been established and/or the market is not yet proven as well as for complex generic drugs and biosimilars. likewise, product licensing involves inherent risks, including, among others, uncertainties due to matters that may affect the achievement of milestones, as well as the possibility of contractual disagreements with regard to whether the supply of product meets certain specifications or terms such as license scope or termination rights. the development and commercialization process, particularly with regard to new and complex drugs, also requires substantial time, effort and financial resources. we, or a partner, may not be successful in commercializing such products on a timely basis, or at all, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. before any prescription drug product, including generic drug products, can be marketed, marketing authorization approval is required by the relevant regulatory authorities and/or national regulatory agencies (for example, the fda in the u.s. and the ema in the eu). the process of obtaining regulatory approval to manufacture and market new branded and generic pharmaceutical products is rigorous, time consuming, costly, and inherently unpredictable. in addition, these regulatory agencies may be delayed in reviewing and approving products as a result of lapsed or insufficient funding, insufficient staffing or other factors beyond our control. as a result of brexit, the eu moved the headquarters of the ema from the u.k. to the netherlands in march 2019, which raises the possibility that any existing and/or new regulatory approval applications in the eu, whether for existing or new drug products, could be delayed as a result. any delay in regulatory approval could impact the commercial or financial success of a product. outside the u.s., the approval process may be more or less rigorous, depending on the country, and the time required for approval may be longer or shorter than that required in the u.s. bioequivalence, clinical, or other studies conducted in one country may not be accepted in other countries, the requirements for approval may differ among countries, and the approval of a pharmaceutical product in one country does not necessarily mean that the product will be approved in another country. we, or a partner or supplier, may be unable to obtain requisite approvals on a timely basis, or at all, for new products that we may develop, license or otherwise acquire. moreover, if we obtain regulatory approval for a drug, it may be limited, for example, with respect to the indicated uses and delivery methods for which the drug may be marketed, or may include warnings, precautions or contraindications in the labeling, which could restrict our potential market for the drug. a regulatory approval may also include post-approval study or risk management requirements that may substantially increase the resources required to market the drug. also, for products pending approval, we may obtain raw materials or produce batches of inventory to be used in efficacy and bioequivalence testing, as well as in anticipation of the product's launch. in the event that regulatory approval is denied or delayed, we could be exposed to the risk of this inventory becoming obsolete. the approval process for generic pharmaceutical products often results in the relevant regulatory agency granting final approval to a number of generic pharmaceutical products at the time a patent claim for a corresponding branded product or other market exclusivity expires. this often forces us to face immediate competition when we introduce a generic product into the 26 table of contents market. additionally, further generic approvals often continue to be granted for a given product subsequent to the initial launch of the generic product. these circumstances generally result in significantly lower prices, as well as reduced margins, for generic products compared to branded products. new generic market entrants generally cause continued price, margin, and sales erosion over the generic product life cycle. in the u.s., the hatch-waxman act provides for a period of 180 days of generic marketing exclusivity for a first applicant, that is the first submitted abbreviated new drug application ( anda , which is filed in the u.s. with the fda when approval is sought to market a generic equivalent of a drug product previously approved under an nda and listed in the fda publication entitled approved drug products with therapeutic equivalence evaluations, popularly known as the orange book or for a new dosage strength for a drug previously approved under an anda) containing a certification of invalidity, non-infringement or unenforceability related to a patent listed with the anda's reference drug product, commonly referred to as a paragraph iv certification. during this exclusivity period, which under certain circumstances may be shared with other andas filed on the same day, the fda cannot grant final approval to later-submitted andas for the same generic equivalent. if an anda is awarded 180-day exclusivity, the applicant generally enjoys higher market share, net revenues, and gross margin for that generic product. however, our ability to obtain 180 days of generic marketing exclusivity may be dependent upon our ability to obtain fda approval or tentative approval within an applicable time period of the fda's acceptance of our anda. if we are unable to obtain approval or tentative approval within that time period, we may risk forfeiture of such marketing exclusivity. by contrast, if we are not a first applicant to challenge a listed patent for such a product, we may lose significant advantages to a competitor with 180-day exclusivity, even if we obtain fda approval for our generic drug product. the same would be true in situations where we are required to share our exclusivity period with other anda sponsors with paragraph iv certifications. in the eu and other countries and regions, there is no exclusivity period for the first generic product. the european commission or national regulatory agencies may grant marketing authorizations to any number of generics. if we are unable to navigate our products through the approval process in a timely manner, there could be an adverse effect on our product introduction plans, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we expend a significant amount of resources on r&amp;d efforts that may not lead to successful product introductions. much of our development effort is focused on technically difficult-to-formulate products and/or products that require advanced manufacturing technology, including our biosimilars program and respiratory platform. we conduct r&amp;d primarily to enable us to gain approval for, manufacture, and market pharmaceuticals in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. we also partner with third parties to develop products. typically, research expenses related to the development of innovative or complex compounds and the filing of marketing authorization applications for innovative and complex compounds (such as ndas and biosimilar applications in the u.s.) are significantly greater than those expenses associated with the development of and filing of marketing authorization applications for most generic products (such as andas in the u.s. and abridged applications in europe). as we and our partners continue to develop new and/or complex products, our research expenses will likely increase. because of the inherent risk associated with r&amp;d efforts in our industry, including the high cost and uncertainty of conducting clinical trials (where required) particularly with respect to new and/or complex drugs, our, or a partner's, r&amp;d expenditures may not result in the successful introduction of new pharmaceutical products approved by the relevant regulatory bodies. also, after we submit a marketing authorization application for a new compound or generic product, the relevant regulatory authority may change standards and/or request that we conduct additional studies or evaluations and, as a result, we may incur approval delays as well as r&amp;d costs in excess of what we anticipated. clinical testing is expensive and can take many years to complete, and its outcome is inherently uncertain. failure can occur at any time during the clinical trial process. we or our partners may experience delays in our ongoing or future clinical trials, and we do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin or enroll subjects on time, need to be redesigned, or be completed on schedule, if at all. clinical trials may be delayed, suspended or prematurely terminated for a variety of reasons. if we experience delays in the completion of, or the termination of, any clinical trial of our product candidates, the commercial prospects of our product candidates will be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues from any of these product candidates will be delayed. in addition, any delays in completing our clinical trials will increase our costs, slow down our product candidate development and approval process, and jeopardize our ability to commence product sales and generate revenues. any of these occurrences may harm our business, financial condition and prospects significantly. in addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of our product candidates. 27 table of contents finally, we cannot be certain that any investment made in developing products will be recovered, even if we are successful in commercialization. to the extent that we expend significant resources on r&amp;d efforts and are not able, ultimately, to introduce successful new and/or complex products as a result of those efforts, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. even if our products in development receive regulatory approval, such products may not achieve expected levels of market acceptance . even if we are able to obtain regulatory approvals for our new products, the success of those products is dependent upon market acceptance. levels of market acceptance for our products could be impacted by several factors, including but not limited to: the availability, perceived advantages, and relative safety and efficacy of alternative products from our competitors; the degree to which the approved labeling supports promotional initiatives for commercial success; the prices of our products relative to those of our competitors; the timing of our market entry; the effectiveness of our marketing, sales, and distribution strategy and operations; and other competitor actions, including legal actions. additionally, studies of the proper utilization, safety, and efficacy of pharmaceutical products are being conducted by the industry, government agencies, and others. such studies, which increasingly employ sophisticated methods and techniques, can call into question the utilization, safety, and efficacy of previously marketed as well as future products. in some cases, such studies have resulted, and may in the future result, in the discontinuation or variation of product marketing authorizations or requirements for risk management programs, such as a patient registry. any of these events could adversely affect our profitability, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. the development, approval process, manufacture and commercialization of biosimilar products involve unique challenges and uncertainties, and our failure to successfully introduce biosimilar products could have a negative impact on our business and future operating results. we and our partners and suppliers are actively working to develop and commercialize biosimilar products. although the biologics price competition and innovation act of 2009 ( bpcia ) established a framework for the review and approval of biosimilar products and the fda has begun to review and approve biosimilar product applications, there continues to be significant uncertainty regarding the regulatory pathway in the u.s., with the fda continuing to issue and revise guidance related to its interpretation and implementation of the bpcia. there is also uncertainty regarding the pathway to obtain approval for biosimilar products in other countries as well as uncertainty regarding the commercial pathway to successfully market and sell such products. moreover, biosimilar products generally involve extensive patent clearances and often involve patent infringement litigation related to multiple patents, which could delay or prevent the commercial launch of a biosimilar product for many years. if we are unable to obtain fda or other non-u.s. regulatory authority approval for our products, we will be unable to market them. in addition, the development and manufacture of biosimilars pose unique challenges related to the supply of the materials needed to manufacture biosimilars. access to and the supply of necessary biological materials may be limited, and government regulations restrict access to and regulate the transport and use of such materials. even if our biosimilar products are approved for marketing, the products may not be commercially successful, may require more time than expected to achieve market acceptance, and may not generate profits in amounts that are sufficient to offset the amount invested to obtain such approvals. market success of biosimilar products will depend on demonstrating to regulators, patients, physicians and payors (such as insurance companies) that such products are safe and effective yet offer a more competitive price or other benefit over existing therapies. in addition, manufacturers of biologic products may try to dissuade physicians from prescribing or accepting biosimilar products. we may not be able to generate future sales of biosimilar products in certain jurisdictions and may not realize the anticipated benefits of our investments in the development, manufacture and sale of such products. if our development efforts do not result in the development and timely approval of biosimilar products or if such products, once developed and approved, are not commercially successful, or upon the occurrence of any of the above risks, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price could be materially adversely affected. 28 table of contents our business is highly dependent upon market perceptions of us, our products, and the safety and quality of our products, and may be adversely impacted by negative publicity or findings. market perceptions of us are very important to our business, especially market perceptions of our company, products and the safety and quality of our products. if we, our partners and suppliers, or our products suffer from negative publicity, or if any of our products or similar products which other companies distribute are subject to market withdrawal or recall or are proven to be, or are claimed to be, ineffective or harmful to consumers, then this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. also, because we are dependent on market perceptions, negative publicity associated with product quality, patient illness, or other adverse effects resulting from, or perceived to be resulting from, our products, or our partners' and suppliers' manufacturing facilities, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. a significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales to a limited number of customers. a significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales to a limited number of customers. if we were to experience a significant reduction in or loss of business with one or more such customers, or if one or more such customers were to experience difficulty in paying us on a timely basis, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price could be materially adversely affected. in addition, a significant amount of our sales are to a relatively small number of drug wholesalers and retail drug chains. these customers represent an essential part of the distribution chain of generic pharmaceutical products. drug wholesalers and retail drug chains have undergone, and are continuing to undergo, significant consolidation. this consolidation has resulted in these groups gaining additional purchasing leverage and, consequently, increasing the product pricing pressures facing our business. we expect this trend of increased pricing pressures to continue. additionally, the emergence of large buying groups representing independent retail pharmacies and the prevalence and influence of managed care organizations and similar institutions increases the negotiating power of these groups, enabling them to attempt to extract price discounts, rebates, and other restrictive pricing terms on our products. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. during the years ended december 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017, mylan's consolidated net sales to its three largest customers were approximately: 8% , 8% , and 10% , respectively, to cardinal health, inc.; 15% , 12% , and 13% , respectively, to mckesson corporation; and 9% , 8% , and 8% , respectively, to amerisourcebergen corporation. the supply of api into europe may be negatively affected by recent regulations promulgated by the eu. all api imported into the eu has needed to be certified as complying with the good manufacturing practice standards established by the eu laws and guidance, as stipulated by the international conference for harmonization. these regulations place the certification requirement on the regulatory bodies of the exporting countries. accordingly, the national regulatory authorities of each exporting country must: (i) ensure that all manufacturing plants within their borders that export api into the eu comply with eu manufacturing standards and (ii) for each api exported, present a written document confirming that the exporting plant conforms to eu manufacturing standards. the imposition of this responsibility on the governments of the nations exporting an api may cause delays in delivery or shortages of an api necessary to manufacture our products, as certain governments may not be willing or able to comply with the regulation in a timely fashion, or at all. a shortage in api may prevent us from manufacturing, or cause us to have to cease manufacture of, certain products, or to incur costs and delays to qualify other suppliers to substitute for those api manufacturers unable to export. the occurrence of any of the above risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we have a limited number of manufacturing facilities and certain third-party suppliers produce a substantial portion of our api and products, some of which require a highly exacting and complex manufacturing process. a substantial portion of our capacity, as well as our current production, is attributable to a limited number of manufacturing facilities and certain third-party suppliers. a significant disruption at any one of such facilities within our internal or third-party supply chain, even on a short-term basis, whether due to the failure of a third-party supplier to fulfill the terms of their agreement with us, labor disruption, adverse quality or compliance observation, other regulatory action, infringement of brand or other third-party intellectual property rights, natural disaster, civil or political unrest, export or import restrictions, or other events could impair our ability to produce and ship products to the market on a timely basis and could, among other consequences, subject us to exposure to claims from customers. any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. if we or our third-party suppliers' face significant manufacturing issues, this could lead to shutdowns or product shortages, or to our being entirely unable to supply certain products 29 table of contents to customers for an extended period of time. such shortages or shutdowns have led and could continue to lead to significant losses of sales revenue, third-party litigation, or negative publicity. see also the pharmaceutical industry is heavily regulated, and we face significant costs and uncertainties associated with our efforts to comply with applicable laws and regulations. we purchase certain api and other materials and supplies that we use in our manufacturing operations, as well as certain finished products, from many different foreign and domestic suppliers. the price of api and other materials and supplies is subject to volatility, and in certain cases, we have listed only one supplier in our applications with regulatory agencies. there is no guarantee that we will always have timely, sufficient or affordable access to critical raw materials or finished product supplied by third parties, even when we have more than one supplier, which could lead to our or our partners' and suppliers' inability to supply sufficient quantities of our products to meet market demand. in addition, quality deficiencies in the products which we or our suppliers provide, or at our or their manufacturing facilities, have in the past and could in the future adversely impact our manufacturing and supply capabilities, cause supply interruptions, or lead to voluntary market withdrawals or product recalls. an increase in the price, or an interruption in the supply, of a single-sourced or any other raw material, including the relevant api, or in the supply of finished product, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. in addition, the manufacture of some of our products is a highly exacting and complex process, due in part to strict regulatory requirements. problems may arise during manufacturing at our or our third-party suppliers' facilities for a variety of reasons, including, among others, equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials, natural disasters, power outages, labor unrest, and environmental factors. if problems arise during the production of a batch of product, that batch of product may have to be discarded. this could, among other things, lead to increased costs, lost revenue, damage to customer relations, time and expense spent investigating the cause, and, depending on the cause, similar losses with respect to other batches or products. if problems are not discovered before the product is released to the market, recall and product liability costs may also be incurred. if we or one of our suppliers experience any of the problems described above, such problems could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. our future success is highly dependent on our continued ability to attract and retain key personnel. it is important that we attract and retain qualified personnel in order to develop and commercialize new products, manage our business, and compete effectively. competition for qualified personnel in the pharmaceutical industry is very intense. if we fail to attract, develop, incentivize and retain key scientific, technical, commercial, regulatory or management personnel, this could lead to loss of customers, business disruption, and a decline in revenues, adversely affect the progress of pipeline products, or otherwise adversely affect our operations. additionally, while we work to ensure that we have effective plans in place for management succession, any anticipated or unanticipated management transition could create uncertainty, which could disrupt or result in changes to our strategy and have a negative impact on our business. while we have employment agreements with certain key employees in place, their employment for the duration of the agreement is not guaranteed. current and prospective employees might also experience uncertainty about their future roles with us following the consummation and/or integration of recent acquisitions, the combination, and potential future transactions, which might adversely affect our ability to retain key managers and other employees. if we are unsuccessful in retaining our key employees or enforcing certain post-employment contractual provisions such as confidentiality or non-competition provisions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we are in the process of enhancing and further developing our global erp systems and associated business applications, which could result in business interruptions if we encounter difficulties. we are enhancing and further developing our global erp and other business critical it infrastructure systems and associated applications to provide more operating efficiencies and effective management of our business and financial operations. such changes to erp systems and related software, and other it infrastructure carry risks such as cost overruns, project delays and business interruptions and delays. if we experience a material business interruption as a result of our erp enhancements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. compliance risks 30 table of contents we are subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act, and similar worldwide anti-corruption laws, which impose restrictions on certain conduct and may carry substantial fines and penalties. we are subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and similar anti-corruption laws in other jurisdictions. these laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from engaging in bribery or making other prohibited payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and some have record keeping requirements. the failure to comply with these laws could result in substantial criminal and/or monetary penalties. we operate in jurisdictions that have experienced corruption, bribery, pay-offs and other similar practices from time-to-time and, in certain circumstances, such practices may be local custom. we have implemented and trained relevant employees regarding internal control policies and procedures that mandate compliance with these anti-corruption laws. however, we cannot be certain that these policies and procedures will protect us against liability. there can be no assurance that our employees or other agents will not engage in such conduct for which we might be held responsible. if our employees or agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we could suffer severe criminal or civil penalties and other consequences that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. our competitors, including branded pharmaceutical companies, and/or other third parties, may allege that we or our suppliers are infringing upon their intellectual property, including in an at risk launch situation, which could result in substantial monetary damages, impact our ability to launch a product and/or our ability to continue marketing a product, and/or force us to expend substantial resources in resulting litigation, the outcome of which is uncertain. companies that produce branded pharmaceutical products and other patent holders routinely bring litigation against entities selling or seeking regulatory approval to manufacture and market generic forms of their branded products, as well as other entities involved in the manufacture, supply, and other aspects relating to api and finished pharmaceutical products. these companies and other patent holders may allege patent infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights as the basis for filing suit against an applicant for a generic product as well as others who may be involved in some aspect of research, supply, production, distribution, testing, packaging or other processes. litigation often involves significant expense and can delay or prevent introduction or sale of our generic products. if patents are held valid and infringed by our products in a particular jurisdiction, we and/or our supplier(s) or partner(s) may, unless we or the supplier(s) or partner(s) could obtain a license from the patent holder, need to cease manufacturing and other activities, including but not limited to selling in that jurisdiction. we may also need to pay damages, surrender or withdraw the product, or destroy existing stock in that jurisdiction. there also may be situations, such as the decision to launch our 40mg/ml glatiramer acetate and fulphila products, where we use our business judgment and decide to market and sell products directly or through third parties, notwithstanding the fact that allegations of patent infringement(s) and other third-party rights have not been finally resolved by the courts (i.e., an at-risk launch ). the risk involved in doing so can be substantial because the remedies available to the owner of a patent for infringement may include, among other things, a reasonable royalty on sales, damages measured by the profits lost by the patent holder, or by profits earned by the infringer. if there is a finding by a court of willful infringement, the definition of which is subjective, such damages may be increased by up to three times. moreover, because of the discount pricing typically involved with bioequivalent products, patented branded products generally realize a substantially higher profit margin than generic or biosimilar products. an adverse decision in a case such as this, or a judicial order preventing us or our suppliers and partners from manufacturing, marketing, selling, and/or other activities necessary to the manufacture and distribution of our products, could result in substantial penalties, and/or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we rely on the effectiveness of our patents, trademarks, confidentiality agreements and other measures to protect our intellectual property rights. our ability to commercialize any branded product successfully will largely depend upon our or any partner's or supplier's ability to obtain, maintain and enforce patents and trademarks of sufficient scope to lawfully prevent third parties from developing and/or marketing infringing products. in the absence of adequate intellectual property protections or other barriers to entry, competitors may adversely affect our branded products business by independently developing and/or marketing substantially equivalent products. it is also possible that we could incur substantial costs if we initiate litigation against others to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. we may file patent filings covering the api, formulation, methods of making, and/or methods of using for our branded products and branded product candidates. we may not be issued patents based on patent applications already filed or that we file in the future. further, due to other factors that affect patentability, and if patents are issued, they may be insufficient in scope to cover or otherwise protect our branded products. patents are national in scope and therefore the issuance of a patent in one country does not ensure the issuance of a patent in any other country. furthermore, the patent position of companies in the pharmaceutical 31 table of contents industry generally involves complex legal and factual questions and has been and remains the subject of significant litigation. legal standards relating to scope and validity of patent claims are evolving and may differ in various countries. any patents we have obtained, or obtain in the future, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. moreover, the u.s. patent and trademark office or any other governmental agency may commence inter partes review or interference proceedings involving, or consider other challenges to, our patents or patent applications. in addition, branded products often have market viability based upon the goodwill of the product name, which typically benefits from trademark protection. our branded products may therefore also be subject to risks related to the loss of trademark or patent protection or to competition from generic or other branded products. challenges can come from other businesses, individuals or governments, and governments could require compulsory licensing of this intellectual property. any challenge to, or invalidation or circumvention of, our intellectual property (including patents or patent applications, copyrights and trademark protection) would be costly, would require significant time and attention of our management, and could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how, trademarks, trade dress, regulatory exclusivity and continuing technological innovation that we seek to protect, in part by confidentiality agreements with licensees, suppliers, employees and consultants. these measures may not provide adequate protection for our unpatented technology. if these agreements are breached, it is possible that we will not have adequate remedies. disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability of confidentiality agreements. furthermore, our trade secrets and proprietary technology may otherwise become known or be independently developed by our competitors or we may not be able to maintain the confidentiality of information relating to such products. our ability to enforce intellectual property rights also depends on the laws of individual countries, each country's practices with respect to enforcement of intellectual property rights, and the extent to which certain countries may seek to engage in policies or practices that may weaken its intellectual property framework (e.g., a policy of routine compulsory licensing, or threat of compulsory licensing, of pharmaceutical intellectual property). if we are unable to adequately protect our technology, trade secrets or proprietary know-how, or enforce our intellectual property rights, this could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. our reporting and payment obligations related to our participation in u.s. federal healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid and the department of veterans affairs (the va ), are complex and often involve subjective decisions that could change as a result of new business circumstances, new regulations or agency guidance, or advice of legal counsel. any failure to comply with those obligations could subject us to investigation, penalties, and sanctions. u.s. federal laws regarding reporting and payment obligations with respect to a pharmaceutical company's participation in federal healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid and the va, are complex. because our processes for calculating applicable government prices and the judgments involved in making these calculations involve subjective decisions and complex methodologies, these calculations are subject to risk of errors and differing interpretations. in addition, they are subject to review and challenge by the applicable governmental agencies, and it is possible that such reviews could result in changes that may have material adverse legal, regulatory, or economic consequences. pharmaceutical manufacturers that participate in the medicaid drug rebate program, such as mylan, are required to report certain pricing data to the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services ( cms ), the federal agency that administers the medicare and medicaid programs. this data includes the average manufacturer price ( amp ) for each of the manufacturer's covered outpatient drugs. cms calculates a type of u.s. federal ceiling on reimbursement rates to pharmacies for multiple source drugs under the medicaid program, known as the federal upper limit ( ful ). since april 2016, cms is required to use the weighted average amp for pharmaceutically and therapeutically equivalent multiple source drugs to calculate fuls, instead of the other pricing data cms previously used. although weighted average amp-based fuls do not reveal mylan's individual amp, publishing a weighted average amp available to customers and the public at large could negatively affect our commercial price negotiations. in addition, a number of state and federal government agencies are conducting investigations of manufacturers' reporting practices with respect to average wholesale prices ( awp ). the government has alleged that reporting of inflated awp has led to excessive payments for prescription drugs, and we may be named as a defendant in actions relating to pharmaceutical pricing issues and whether allegedly improper actions by pharmaceutical manufacturers led to excessive payments by medicare, medicaid and/or the va. any governmental agencies or authorities that have commenced, or may commence, an investigation of us relating to the sales, marketing, pricing, quality, or manufacturing of pharmaceutical products could seek to impose, based on a claim of violation of anti-fraud and false claims laws or otherwise, civil and/or criminal sanctions, including fines, penalties, and possible 32 table of contents exclusion from federal healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid and/or the va. some of the applicable laws may impose liability even in the absence of specific intent to defraud. furthermore, should there be ambiguity with regard to how to properly calculate and report payments - and even in the absence of any such ambiguity - a governmental authority may take a position contrary to a position we have taken, and may impose or pursue civil and/or criminal sanctions. governmental agencies may also make changes in program interpretations, requirements or conditions of participation, some of which may have implications for amounts previously estimated or paid. there can be no assurance that our submissions will not be found by cms or the va to be incomplete or incorrect. any failure to comply with the above laws and regulations, and any such penalties or sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we are involved in various legal proceedings and certain government inquiries and may experience unfavorable outcomes of such proceedings or inquiries. we are or may be involved in various legal proceedings and certain government inquiries or investigations, including, but not limited to, patent infringement, product liability, claims with respect to the manufacture, sale marketing and distribution of opioid products, antitrust matters, breach of contract, and claims involving medicare, medicaid and/or va reimbursements, or laws relating to sales, marketing, and pricing practices, some of which are described in our periodic reports, that involve claims for, or the possibility of, fines and penalties involving substantial amounts of money or other relief, including but not limited to civil or criminal fines and penalties and exclusion from participation in various government healthcare-related programs. with respect to government enforcement of state and federal laws, including antitrust laws, as well as private plaintiff litigation of so-called pay for delay patent settlements, large verdicts, settlements or government fines are possible, especially in the u.s. and eu. in addition, after the consummation of the combination, newco has agreed to pay pfizer an amount equal to 57% of any losses actually incurred or suffered by mylan, newco or their respective subsidiaries, since the date of the business combination agreement, arising out of third-party actions relating to the manufacture, distribution, marketing, promotion or sale of opioids by or on behalf of mylan or its subsidiaries. if any of these legal proceedings or inquiries were to result in an adverse outcome, the impact could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. refer to note 20 litigation included in item 8 in this annual report on form 10-k for further discussion of litigation matters. emerging developments in the u.s. legal landscape relative to the liability of generic pharmaceutical manufacturers for certain product liabilities claims could increase our exposure to litigation costs and damages. although we maintain a combination of self-insurance and commercial insurance, no reasonable amount of insurance can fully protect against all risks because of the potential liability inherent in the business of producing pharmaceuticals for human consumption. to the extent that a loss occurs, depending on the nature of the loss and the level of insurance coverage maintained, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. in addition, in limited circumstances, entities that we have acquired are party to litigation in matters under which we are, or may be, entitled to indemnification by the previous owners. even in the case of indemnification, there are risks inherent in such indemnities and, accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will receive the full benefits of such indemnification, or that we will not experience an adverse result in a matter that is not indemnified, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. if we fail to comply with our corporate integrity agreement, we could be subject to substantial penalties and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs. in august 2017, mylan inc. and mylan specialty l.p. entered into a corporate integrity agreement (the cia ) with the office of inspector general of the department of health and human services ( oig-hhs ). the cia has a five-year term and requires, among other things, enhancements to our compliance program, fulfillment of reporting and monitoring obligations, management certifications and resolutions from mylan inc.'s board, as well as that an independent review organization annually review various matters relating to the medicaid drug rebate program, among other things. if we fail to comply with the cia, the oig-hhs may impose substantial monetary penalties or exclude us from federal healthcare programs, including medicare, medicaid or the va, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are increasingly dependent on it and our systems and infrastructure face certain risks, including cybersecurity and data leakage risks. significant disruptions to our it systems or breaches of information security could adversely affect our business. we are increasingly dependent on sophisticated it systems and infrastructure to operate our business. we also have outsourced significant elements of our operations to third parties, some of which are outside the u.s., including significant elements of our it infrastructure, and as a result we are managing many independent vendor relationships with third parties who may or could have access to our 33 table of contents confidential information. the size and complexity of our it systems, and those of our third-party vendors with whom we contract, make such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions. in addition, we and our vendors have experienced and expect to continue to experience phishing attempts, firewall and business email compromises and other third-party attacks on our or our vendors' it systems, networks and infrastructures. such attacks are increasingly sophisticated and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise, including state and quasi-state actors, criminal groups, hackers and others. any security breach or other disruption to our or our vendors' it infrastructure could also interfere with or disrupt our business operations, including our manufacturing, distribution, r&amp;d, sales and/or marketing activities. in the ordinary course of business, we and our vendors collect, store and transmit large amounts of confidential information (including trade secrets or other intellectual property, proprietary business information and personal information), and it is critical that we do so in a secure manner to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information. the size and complexity of our and our vendors' systems and the large amounts of confidential information that is present on them also makes them potentially vulnerable to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees, partners or vendors, or from attacks by malicious third parties. maintaining the security, confidentiality and integrity of this confidential information (including trade secrets or other intellectual property, proprietary business information and personal information) is important to our competitive business position. however, such information can be difficult to protect. while we have taken steps to protect such information, and to ensure that the third-party vendors' on which we rely have taken adequate steps to protect such information, there can be no assurance that our or our vendors' efforts will prevent service interruptions or security breaches in our systems or the unauthorized or inadvertent wrongful use or disclosure of confidential or material non-public information that could adversely affect our business operations or result in the loss, misappropriation, and/or unauthorized access, use or disclosure of, or the prevention of access to, confidential information. a breach of our or our vendors' security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure, unapproved dissemination, misappropriation or misuse of trade secrets, proprietary information, or other confidential information, whether as a result of theft, hacking, fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, or for any other cause, could enable others to produce competing products, use our proprietary technology or information, and/or adversely affect our business position. further, any such interruption, security breach, or loss, misappropriation, and/or unauthorized access, use or disclosure of confidential information, including personal information regarding our patients and employees, could result in financial, legal, business, and reputational harm to us and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we are subject to data privacy and security laws and regulations in many different jurisdictions and countries where we do business, and our or our vendors' inability to comply could result in fines, penalties, reputational damage, and could impact the way we operate our business. we are subject to federal, state and international data privacy and security laws and regulations governing the collection, use, disclosure, transmission and protection of personal information, including health-related information. as the legislative and regulatory landscape for data privacy and security continues to evolve around the world, there has been an increasing focus on data privacy and security matters that may affect our business. in the u.s., the federal health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, and the health information technology for economic and clinical health act (collectively, hipaa ) governs the use, disclosure, and security of protected health information by hipaa covered entities and business associates. several u.s. states have enacted, or proposed, data privacy laws and regulations governing the confidentiality, security, use and disclosure of personal information, which may impose greater restrictions than federal data privacy and security laws and regulations. for example, the california consumer privacy act of 2018 ( ccpa ) was signed into law on june 28, 2018 and became effective on january 1, 2020. the ccpa grants new rights to california consumers, including, among others, the right to know what personal information is collected, used, shared, or sold and a right to deletion of personal information held by businesses and businesses' service providers. we may also be subject to other state data privacy and security breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws, and federal and state consumer protection laws which impose requirements for the collection, use, disclosure, transmission and protection of personal information. each of these laws are subject to varying interpretations by courts and regulatory or government agencies, creating complex compliance issues for us. if we, or the third-party vendors on which we rely, fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations we could be subject to fines, penalties or sanctions, including criminal penalties. outside of the u.s., data protection laws, including the eu's general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), eu member states implementing regulations, and other jurisdictional data protection laws and regulations impose significant compliance obligations on our organization. the gdpr became effective in eu member states on may 25, 2018. the gdpr contains data protection requirements in the eu and imposes a framework of obligations and restrictions governing the collection, processing, and the transmission of personal data to jurisdictions outside of the eu. the gdpr affords individuals with a series of privacy rights related to the collection, processing, and transmission of their personal data. the gdpr imposes significant compliance 34 table of contents obligations, including required processes and policies governing our collection, transmission, processing and use of individuals personal data. in addition, the gdpr includes significant penalties for non-compliance, with fines up to the higher of 20 million or 4% of total annual worldwide revenue. in general, gdpr, and other data protection laws and regulations, could require adaptation of our technologies or practices to satisfy local country data protection requirements and standards. other countries in which we operate, including australia, canada, china, india, japan, russia and south africa, have, or are developing, laws and regulations governing the collection, use, securing and transmission of personal information as well that may affect our business or require us to adapt our technologies or practices. most recently, brazil enacted significant data privacy legislation, the lei geral de protecaode dados, which becomes effective in august 2020. some countries, including india and russia, are considering legislation implementing data protection requirements or requiring local storage and processing of data or similar requirements. these and similar initiatives could increase the cost of developing, implementing or maintaining our it systems, require us to allocate more resources to compliance initiatives or increase our costs. in addition, a failure by us, or our third-party vendors, to comply with applicable data privacy and security laws may lead to government enforcement actions and private litigation, which could result in financial, legal, business, and reputational harm to us and could have a material adverse effect on the way we operate our business, our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. increasing scrutiny and evolving expectations from customers, regulators, investors, and other stakeholders with respect to our environmental, social and governance practices may impose additional costs on us or expose us to new or additional risks. companies are facing increasing scrutiny from customers, regulators, investors, and other stakeholders related to their environmental, social and governance practices and disclosure. investor advocacy groups, investment funds and influential investors are also increasingly focused on these practices, especially as they relate to the environment, health and safety, supply chain management, diversity and human rights. failure to adapt to or comply with regulatory requirements or investor or stakeholder expectations and standards could negatively impact our reputation and the price of our ordinary shares. in addition, a number of our customers, including certain government purchasers, have adopted, or may adopt, procurement policies that include social and environmental requirements, including, for example, requirements to conduct third party audits, or these customers may seek to include such provisions in their procurement contract terms and conditions. these social and environmental responsibility provisions and initiatives are subject to change, vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and certain elements may be difficult and/or cost prohibitive for us to comply with given the inherent complexity of our external supply chain and the global scope of our operations. in certain circumstances, in order to meet the requirements or standards of our customers, we may be obligated to modify our sourcing practices or make other operational choices which may require additional investments and increase our costs or result in inefficiencies. alternatively, we may be ineligible to participate in bids or tenders in certain markets, which may result in lost sales and revenues. any of the factors mentioned above, or the perception that we or our suppliers or contract manufacturers have not responded appropriately to the growing concern for such issues, regardless of whether we are legally required to do so, may damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations cash flows and/or ordinary share price. finance risks if the intercompany terms of cross border arrangements that we have among our subsidiaries are determined to be inappropriate or ineffective, our tax liability may increase. we have potential tax exposures resulting from the varying application of statutes, regulations, and interpretations which include exposures on intercompany terms of cross-border arrangements among our subsidiaries (including intercompany loans, sales, and services agreements) in relation to various aspects of our business, including manufacturing, marketing, sales, and delivery functions. although we believe our cross-border arrangements among our subsidiaries are based upon internationally accepted standards and applicable law, tax authorities in various jurisdictions may disagree with and subsequently challenge the amount of profits taxed in their country, which may result in increased tax liability, including accrued interest and penalties, which would cause our tax expense to increase and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. 35 table of contents we may not be able to maintain competitive financial flexibility and our corporate tax rate which could adversely affect us and our shareholders. we believe that our structure and operations give us the ability to achieve competitive financial flexibility and a competitive worldwide effective corporate tax rate. we must make material assumptions underlying our expected tax rates, including regarding the effect of certain internal reorganization transactions, including various intercompany transactions. we cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate will be, however, because of, among other reasons, uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate, potential changes of laws and interpretations thereof, and the potential for tax audits or challenges. our actual effective tax rate may vary from our expectation and that variance may be material. additionally, the tax laws of the u.k., the netherlands and other jurisdictions could change in the future, and such changes could cause a material change in our effective tax rate. any of the factors discussed above could materially increase our overall effective income tax rate and income tax expense and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities and changes in income tax laws and tax rulings may have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate and income tax expense. we are subject to income taxes in many jurisdictions. significant analysis and judgment are required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are currently subject to tax audits and investigations in several jurisdictions, and may be subject to other audits and investigations in the future. the final determination of any tax audits or related litigation could be materially different from our income tax provisions and accruals. additionally, changes in the effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in our overall profitability, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, the results of audits and the examination of previously filed tax returns by taxing authorities, and continuing assessments of our tax exposures could impact our tax liabilities and affect our income tax expense, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we may become taxable in a jurisdiction other than the u.k. and this may increase the aggregate tax burden on us. based on our current management structure and current tax laws of the u.s., the u.k., and the netherlands, as well as applicable income tax treaties, and current interpretations thereof, the u.k. and the netherlands competent authorities have determined that we are tax resident solely in the u.k. for the purposes of the netherlands-u.k. tax treaty. we have received a binding ruling from the competent authorities in the u.k. and in the netherlands confirming this treatment. we will therefore be tax resident solely in the u.k. so long as the facts and circumstances set forth in the relevant application letters sent to those authorities remain accurate. even though we received a binding ruling, the applicable tax laws or interpretations thereof may change, or the assumptions on which such rulings were based may differ from the facts. as a consequence, we may become a tax resident of a jurisdiction other than the u.k. as a consequence, our overall effective income tax rate and income tax expense could materially increase, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we have a number of clean energy investments which are subject to various risks and uncertainties. we have invested in clean energy operations capable of producing refined coal that we believe qualify for tax credits under section 45 of the u.s. internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ). our ability to claim tax credits under section 45 of the code depends upon the operations in which we have invested satisfying certain ongoing conditions set forth in section 45 of the code. these include, among others, the emissions reduction, qualifying technology , and placed-in-service requirements of section 45 of the code, as well as the requirement that at least one of the operations' owners qualifies as a producer of refined coal. while we have received some degree of confirmation from the irs relating to our ability to claim these tax credits, the irs could ultimately determine that the operations have not satisfied, or have not continued to satisfy, the conditions set forth in section 45 of the code. the ability to claim tax credits under these provisions is set to expire in 2021 and may not be renewed. in addition, congress could modify or repeal section 45 of the code and remove the tax credits retroactively. further, section 45 of the code contains phase out provisions based upon the market price of coal, such that, if the price of coal rises to specified levels, we could lose some or all of the tax credits we expect to receive from these investments. finally, when the price 36 table of contents of natural gas or oil declines relative to that of coal, some utilities may choose to burn natural gas or oil instead of coal. market demand for coal may also decline as a result of an economic slowdown and a corresponding decline in the use of electricity. if utilities burn less coal, eliminate coal in the production of electricity or are otherwise unable to operate for an extended period of time, the availability of the tax credits would also be reduced. during the past few years, as a result of a decline in current and expected future production levels at certain of our clean energy facilities, the company impaired its investment balance and other assets and in 2018 we terminated certain of our clean energy investments. additional impairments or terminations could occur in the future. the occurrence of any of the above risks could limit the value of our investment, result in increased costs, materially increase our tax burden or adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. currency fluctuations and changes in exchange rates could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. although we report our financial results in u.s. dollars, a significant portion of our revenues, indebtedness and other liabilities and our costs are denominated in non-u.s. currencies, including among others the euro, swedish krona, indian rupee, japanese yen, australian dollar, canadian dollar, british pound sterling and brazilian real. our results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows, have in the past been and may in the future be adversely affected by certain movements in currency exchange rates. defaults or restructurings in other countries could have a similar adverse impact. from time to time, we may implement currency hedges intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. however, our hedging strategies may not be successful, and any of our unhedged foreign exchange exposures will continue to be subject to market fluctuations. the occurrence of any of the above risks could cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price we have significant indebtedness, which could lead to adverse consequences or adversely affect our financial position and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under such indebtedness, and any refinancing of this debt could be at significantly higher interest rates . our level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including but not limited to: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, challenges and opportunities, and changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and debt service requirements and other financing needs; increasing our vulnerability to increases in interest rates in general because a substantial portion of our indebtedness bears interest at floating rates; and placing us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt. our ability to service our indebtedness will depend on our future operating performance and financial results, which will be subject, in part, to factors beyond our control, including interest rates and general economic, financial and business conditions. if we do not have sufficient cash flow to service our indebtedness, we may need to refinance all or part of our existing indebtedness, borrow more money or sell securities or assets, some or all of which may not be available to us at acceptable terms or at all. in addition, we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. although the terms of our credit agreements and our bond indentures allow us to incur additional debt, this is subject to certain limitations which may preclude us from incurring the amount of indebtedness we otherwise desire. although mylan expects to maintain an investment grade credit rating, a downgrade in the credit rating of mylan or any indebtedness of mylan or its subsidiaries could increase the cost of further borrowings or refinancings of such indebtedness, limit access to sources of financing in the future or lead to other adverse consequences. if we incur additional debt, the risks described above could intensify. if global credit markets contract, future debt financing may not be available to us when required or may not be available on acceptable terms or at all, and as a result we may be unable 37 table of contents to grow our business, take advantage of business opportunities, respond to competitive pressures or satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness. any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. from time to time, we issue variable rate debt based on the london interbank offered rate ( libor ) or undertake interest rate swaps that contain a variable element based on libor. the financial conduct authority in the u.k. has announced that it will phase out libor as a benchmark by the end of 2021. as of december 31, 2019, less than 10% of our outstanding debt is linked to libor. however, if libor ceases to exist, we may need to renegotiate or amend certain of our agreements and we may not be able to do so on terms that are favorable to us. as a result, our interest expense could increase. in addition, the overall financial market may be disrupted and there could be significant increases in benchmark rates or borrowing costs to borrowers as a result of the phase-out or replacement of libor. disruption in the financial market, significant increases in benchmark rates or borrowing costs or our inability to renegotiate agreements on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financing activities, financial condition and operations. our credit facilities, senior unsecured notes, commercial paper program, other outstanding indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we incur in the future impose, or may impose, significant operating and financial restrictions on us. these restrictions limit our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, make investments, pay certain dividends, prepay other indebtedness, sell assets, incur certain liens, enter into agreements with our affiliates or restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends, merge or consolidate. in addition, our credit facilities require us to maintain specified financial ratios. a breach of any of these covenants or our inability to maintain the required financial ratios could result in a default under the related indebtedness. if a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare our indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable. these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. there are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with u.s. gaap. any future changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions used or necessary revisions to prior estimates, judgments or assumptions or changes in accounting standards could lead to a restatement or revision to previously issued financial statements. the consolidated and condensed consolidated financial statements included in the periodic reports we file with the sec are prepared in accordance with u.s. gaap. the preparation of financial statements in accordance with u.s. gaap involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to change in the future and any necessary revisions to prior estimates, judgments or assumptions could lead to a restatement. furthermore, although we have recorded reserves for litigation related contingencies based on estimates of probable future costs, such litigation related contingencies could result in substantial further costs. also, any new or revised accounting standards may require adjustments to previously issued financial statements. any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of liabilities, revenues, expenses and income and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. we must maintain adequate internal controls and be able to provide an assertion as to the effectiveness of such controls on an annual basis. effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reasonable assurance with respect to our financial reports. we spend a substantial amount of management and other employee time and resources to comply with laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure. in the u.s., such regulations include the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002, sec regulations and the nasdaq listing standards. in particular, section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 requires management's annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and attestation as to the effectiveness of these controls by our independent registered public accounting firm. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. additionally, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. in addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and/or ordinary share price. 38 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 70 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange risk a significant portion of our revenues and earnings are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we seek to manage this foreign exchange risk in part through operational means, including managing same currency revenues in relation to same currency costs and same currency assets in relation to same currency liabilities. from time to time, foreign exchange risk is managed through the use of foreign currency forward-exchange contracts. these contracts are used to offset the potential earnings effects from mostly intercompany foreign currency assets and liabilities that arise from operations and from intercompany loans. mylan 's primary areas of foreign exchange risk relative to the u.s. dollar are the euro, swedish krona, indian rupee, japanese yen, australian dollar, canadian dollar, pound sterling and brazilian real . any unhedged foreign exchange exposures continue to be subject to market fluctuations. our financial instrument holdings at year end were analyzed to determine their sensitivity to foreign exchange rate changes. the fair values of these instruments were determined as follows: foreign currency forward-exchange contracts net present values foreign currency denominated receivables, payables, debt and loans changes in exchange rates in this sensitivity analysis, we assumed that the change in one currency's rate relative to the u.s. dollar would not have an effect on other currencies' rates relative to the u.s. dollar. all other factors were held constant. if there were an adverse change in foreign currency exchange rates of 10% , the expected net effect on net income related to mylan 's foreign currency denominated financial instruments would not be material . the company is also exposed to translation risk on non-u.s. dollar-denominated net assets. non-u.s. dollar borrowings, principally our euro denominated long-term debt, are used to hedge the foreign currency exposures of our net investment in certain foreign affiliates and are designated as hedges of net investments. the foreign exchange gains or losses on these hedges is included in the foreign currency translation component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). if our net investment decreases below the equivalent value of the non-u.s. debt borrowings, the change in the remeasurement basis of the debt would be subject to recognition in net income as changes occur. interest rate and long-term debt risk mylan 's exposure to interest rate risk arises primarily from our u.s. dollar and euro borrowings and u.s. dollar investments. we invest primarily on a variable-rate basis and we borrow on both a fixed and variable basis. in order to maintain a certain ratio of fixed to variable rate debt, from time to time, depending on market conditions, mylan will use derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps to fix interest rates on variable-rate borrowings or to convert fixed-rate borrowings to variable interest rates. as of december 31, 2019 , mylan 's outstanding fixed rate borrowings consist principally of $12.2 billion notional amount of senior notes and euro notes. generally, the fair value of fixed interest rate debt will decrease as interest rates rise and increase as interest rates fall. as of december 31, 2019 , the fair value of our outstanding fixed rate senior notes and euro notes was approximately $13.4 billion . a 100 basis point change in interest rates on mylan 's variable rate debt, net of interest rate swaps, would result in a change in interest expense of approximately $13.1 million per year. 70 table of contents