risk factors declines in the demand for office space in new york city, and in particular midtown manhattan, as well as our suburban markets, including westchester county, connecticut, northern new jersey and long island, could adversely affect the value of our real estate portfolio and our results of operations and, consequently, our ability to service current debt and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. most of our commercial office properties, based on square footage, are located in midtown manhattan. as a result, our business is dependent on the condition of the new york city economy in general and the market for office space in midtown manhattan in particular. future weakness and uncertainty in the new york city economy could materially reduce the value of our real estate portfolio and our rental revenues, and thus adversely affect our cash flow and ability to service current debt and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. similarly, future weakness and uncertainty in our suburban markets could adversely affect our cash flow and ability to service current debt and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. we may be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases expire. when our tenants decide not to renew their leases upon their expiration, we may not be able to relet the space. even if tenants do renew or we can relet the space, the terms of renewal or reletting, taking into account among other things, the cost of tenant improvements and leasing commissions, may be less favorable than the terms in the expired leases. as of december 31, 2013 , approximately 7.0 million and 2.0 million square feet, representing approximately 35.1% and 49.4% of the rentable square feet, are scheduled to expire by december 31, 2018 at our consolidated properties and unconsolidated joint venture properties, respectively, and as of december 31, 2013 , these leases had annualized escalated rent totaling approximately $373.1 million and $106.7 million , respectively. we also have leases with termination options beyond 2018 . if we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet the space at similar rates, our cash flow and ability to service debt and pay dividends and distributions to security holders could be adversely affected. the expiration of long term leases or operating sublease interests could adversely affect our results of operations. our interests in 673 first avenue, 420 lexington avenue, 461 fifth avenue, 711 third avenue, 625 madison avenue, 1185 avenue of the americas and 1080 amsterdam avenue, all in manhattan, and 1055 washington avenue, stamford, connecticut, are through either long-term leasehold or operating sublease interests in the land and the improvements, rather than by ownership of fee interest in the land. we have the ability to acquire the fee position at 461 fifth avenue for a fixed price on a specific date. unless we can purchase a fee interest in the underlying land or extend the terms of these leases before their expiration, we will lose our right to operate these properties upon expiration of the leases, which would significantly adversely affect our results of operations. the average remaining term of these long-term leases as of december 31, 2013 , including our unilateral extension rights on each of the properties, is approximately 48 years. pursuant to the leasehold arrangement, we, as tenant under the operating sublease, perform the functions traditionally performed by landlords with respect to our subtenants. we are responsible for not only collecting rent from our subtenants, but also maintaining the property and paying expenses relating to the property. our share of annualized cash rents of the commercial office properties at december 31, 2013 totaled approximately $259.5 million , or 23.0% , of our share of total portfolio annualized cash rent. our results of operations rely on major tenants and insolvency, bankruptcy or receivership of these or other tenants could adversely affect our results of operations. giving effect to leases in effect as of december 31, 2013 for consolidated properties and unconsolidated joint venture properties, as of that date, our five largest tenants, based on square footage leased, accounted for approximately 23.2% of our share of portfolio annualized cash rent, with three tenants, viacom international inc., citigroup, inc., and credit suisse securities (usa) llc accounting for approximately 7.5% , 6.6% and 6.1% of our share of portfolio annualized cash rent, respectively. if current conditions in the industries in which our tenants are concentrated deteriorate, we may experience increases in past due accounts, defaults, lower occupancy and reduced effective rents. our business would be adversely affected if any of our major tenants became insolvent, declared bankruptcy, are put into receivership or otherwise refused to pay rent in a timely fashion or at all. adverse economic and geopolitical conditions in general and the northeastern commercial office markets in particular could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. our business may be affected by volatility in the financial and credit markets and other market or economic challenges experienced by the u.s. economy or real estate industry as a whole. future periods of economic weakness could result in reduced access to credit and/or wider credit spreads. economic uncertainty, including concern about the stability of the markets generally, may lead many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide funding to borrowers, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our tenants. our business may also be adversely affected by local economic conditions, as substantially all of our revenues are derived from our properties located in the northeast, particularly in new york, northern new jersey and connecticut. because our portfolio consists primarily 11 table of contents of commercial office buildings (as compared to a more diversified real estate portfolio) located principally in manhattan, if economic conditions deteriorate, then our results of operations, financial condition and ability to service current debt and to pay dividends to our stockholders may be adversely affected. specifically, our business may be affected by the following conditions: significant job losses in the financial and professional services industries which may decrease demand for our office space, causing market rental rates and property values to be negatively impacted; our ability to borrow on terms and conditions that we find acceptable may be limited, which could reduce our ability to pursue acquisition and development opportunities and refinance existing debt, reduce our returns from both our existing operations and our acquisition and development activities and increase our future interest expense; reduced values of our properties, which may limit our ability to dispose of assets at attractive prices or to obtain debt financing secured by our properties and may reduce the availability of unsecured loans; and reduced liquidity in debt markets and increased credit risk premiums for certain market participants, which may impair our ability to access capital. we may suffer adverse consequences if our revenues decline since our operating costs do not necessarily decline in proportion to our revenue. we earn a significant portion of our income from renting our properties. our operating costs, however, do not necessarily fluctuate in direct proportion to changes in our rental revenue. as a result, our costs will not necessarily decline even if our revenues do. similarly, our operating costs could increase while our revenues stay flat or decline. in either such event, we may be forced to borrow to cover our costs, we may incur losses or we may not have cash available to service our debt and to pay dividends to our stockholders. we face risks associated with property acquisitions. we may acquire individual properties and portfolios of properties, including large portfolios that could significantly increase our size and alter our capital structure. our acquisition activities may be exposed to, and their success may be adversely affected by, the following risks: we may be unable to meet required closing conditions; we may be unable to finance acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; acquired properties may fail to perform as we expected; our estimates of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping acquired properties may be inaccurate; we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for new properties; acquired properties may be located in new markets where we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, lack of business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures; and we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and therefore our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may acquire properties subject to both known and unknown liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse. as a result, if a liability were asserted against us arising from our ownership of those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. unknown liabilities with respect to properties acquired might include: claims by tenants, vendors or other persons arising from dealing with the former owners of the properties; liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties; and liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination. competition for acquisitions may reduce the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and increase the costs of those acquisitions. we plan to continue to acquire properties as we are presented with attractive opportunities. we may face competition for acquisition opportunities from other investors, particularly those investors who are willing to incur more leverage, and this competition may adversely affect us by subjecting us to the following risks: 12 table of contents an inability to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well-capitalized real estate investors, including publicly traded and privately held reits, private real estate funds, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, pension trusts, partnerships and individual investors; and an increase in the purchase price for such acquisition property, in the event we are able to acquire such desired property. we rely on six large properties for a significant portion of our revenue. six of our properties, 420 lexington avenue, 485 lexington avenue, one madison avenue, 1185 avenue of the americas, 1515 broadway and 388-390 greenwich street, accounted for approximately 37.0% of our portfolio annualized cash rent, which includes our share of joint venture annualized rent as of december 31, 2013 . our revenue and cash available for distribution to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected if any of these properties were materially damaged or destroyed. additionally, our revenue and cash available to service debt and for distribution to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected if tenants at these properties fail to timely make rental payments due to adverse financial conditions or otherwise, default under their leases or file for bankruptcy. the continuing threat of terrorist attacks may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to generate cash flow. there may be a decrease in demand for space in new york city because it is considered at risk for future terrorist attacks, and this decrease may reduce our revenues from property rentals. in the aftermath of a terrorist attack, tenants in the new york metropolitan area may choose to relocate their business to less populated, lower-profile areas of the united states that those tenants believe are not as likely to be targets of future terrorist activity. this in turn could trigger a decrease in the demand for space in the new york metropolitan area, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease our properties on less favorable terms. as a result, the value of our properties and the level of our revenues could materially decline. a terrorist attack could cause insurance premiums to increase significantly. we maintain all-risk property and rental value coverage (including coverage regarding the perils of flood, earthquake and terrorism) within two property insurance portfolios and liability insurance. as of december 31, 2013 , the first property portfolio maintains a blanket limit of $950.0 million per occurrence, including terrorism, for the majority of the new york city properties in our portfolio. the second portfolio maintains a limit of $700.0 million per occurrence, including terrorism, for some new york city properties and the majority of the suburban properties. both policies expire on december 31, 2014. each policy includes $100.0 million of flood coverage, with a lower sublimit for locations in high hazard flood zones. we maintain liability policies which cover all our properties and provide limits of $201.0 million per occurrence and in the aggregate per location. the liability policies expire on october 31, 2014. additional coverage may be purchased on a stand-alone basis for certain assets. in october 2006, we formed a wholly-owned taxable reit subsidiary, belmont insurance company, or belmont, to act as a captive insurance company and be one of the elements of our overall insurance program. belmont is a subsidiary of ours. belmont was formed in an effort to, among other reasons, stabilize to some extent the fluctuations of insurance market conditions. belmont is licensed in new york to write terrorism, nbcr (nuclear, biological, chemical, and radiological), general liability, environmental liability, flood and d&amp;o coverage. the terrorism risk insurance act, or tria, which was enacted in november 2002, was renewed december 31, 2005 and again on december 31, 2007. congress extended tria, now called tripra (terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization and extension act of 2007) until december 31, 2014. the law extends the federal terrorism insurance program that requires insurance companies to offer terrorism coverage and provides for compensation for insured losses resulting from acts of certified terrorism, subject to the current program trigger of $100.0 million. there is no assurance that tripra will be extended. our debt instruments, consisting of mortgage loans secured by our properties (which are generally non-recourse to us), mezzanine loans, ground leases, our 2012 credit facility, senior unsecured notes and other corporate obligations, contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance. although we believe that we currently maintain sufficient insurance coverage to satisfy these obligations, there is no assurance that in the future we will be able to procure coverage at a reasonable cost. in such instances, there can be no assurance that the lenders or ground lessors under these instruments will not take the position that a total or partial exclusion from all-risk insurance coverage for losses due to terrorist acts is a breach of these debt and ground lease instruments allowing the lenders or ground lessors to declare an event of default and accelerate repayment of debt or recapture of ground lease positions. in addition, if lenders prevail in asserting that we are required to maintain full coverage for these risks, it could result in substantially higher insurance premiums. as long as we own belmont, we are responsible for its liquidity and capital resources, and the accounts of belmont are part of our consolidated financial statements. if we experience a loss and belmont is required to pay under its insurance policy, we would ultimately record the loss to the extent of belmont's required payment. therefore, insurance coverage provided by belmont should not be considered as the equivalent of third-party insurance, but rather as a modified form of self-insurance. 13 table of contents we monitor all properties that are subject to triple net leases to ensure that tenants are providing adequate coverage. certain joint ventures may be covered under policies separate from our policies, at coverage limits, which we deem to be adequate. we continually monitor these policies. although we consider our insurance coverage to be appropriate, in the event of a major catastrophe, we may not have sufficient coverage to replace certain properties. we face possible risks associated with the physical effects of climate change. we cannot predict with certainty whether climate change is occurring and, if so, at what rate. however, the physical effects of climate change could have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations and business. to the extent climate change causes changes in weather patterns, our markets could experience increases in storm intensity, such as those experienced in super storm sandy in october 2012, and rising sea-levels. over time, these conditions could result in declining demand for office space in our buildings or the inability of us to operate the buildings at all. climate change may also have indirect effects on our business by increasing the cost of (or making unavailable) property insurance on terms we find acceptable, increasing the cost of energy and increasing the cost of snow removal at our properties. there can be no assurance that climate change will not have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations or business. leasing office space to smaller and growth-oriented businesses could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. some of the tenants in our properties are smaller, growth-oriented businesses that may not have the financial strength of larger corporate tenants. smaller companies generally experience a higher rate of failure than large businesses. growth-oriented firms may also seek other office space as they develop. leasing office space to these companies could create a higher risk of tenant defaults, turnover and bankruptcies, which could adversely affect our distributable cash flow and results of operations. debt financing, financial covenants, degree of leverage, and increases in interest rates could adversely affect our economic performance. scheduled debt payments could adversely affect our results of operations. cash flow could be insufficient to pay dividends and meet the payments of principal and interest required under our current mortgages and other indebtedness, including our 2012 credit facility, senior unsecured notes, debentures and indebtedness outstanding at our joint venture properties. the total principal amount of our outstanding consolidated indebtedness was approximately $6.9 billion as of december 31, 2013 , consisting of approximately $620.0 million under our 2012 credit facility, which is inclusive of our $400.0 million term loan, $1.3 billion under our senior unsecured notes, $100.0 million of junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures and approximately $4.9 billion of non-recourse mortgages and loans payable on 23 of our properties and certain debt and preferred equity investments, and recourse loans on two of our investments. in addition, we could increase the amount of our outstanding consolidated indebtedness in the future, in part by borrowing under our 2012 credit facility, which had $0.9 billion undrawn capacity as of december 31, 2013 . our 2012 credit facility in aggregate matures in march 2018, which includes two six-month extension options on the $1.2 billion revolving credit facility component of the facility. as of december 31, 2013 , the total principal amount of non-recourse indebtedness outstanding at the joint venture properties was approximately $4.8 billion , of which our proportionate share was approximately $1.9 billion . as of december 31, 2013 , the total principal amount of recourse indebtedness outstanding at two of our unconsolidated joint venture properties was approximately $218.4 million . if we are unable to make payments under our 2012 credit facility, all amounts due and owing at such time shall accrue interest at a rate equal to 2% higher than the rate at which each draw was made. if we are unable to make payments under our senior unsecured notes, the principal and unpaid interest will become immediately payable. if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property, resulting in loss of income and asset value. foreclosure on mortgaged properties or an inability to make payments under our 2012 credit facility or our senior unsecured notes would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to refinance existing indebtedness, which may require substantial principal payments at maturity. in 2014 , approximately $75.9 million of corporate indebtedness, $91.0 million under the mra facility, $146.3 million of mortgage debt on our consolidated properties and our share of mortgage debt on our unconsolidated joint venture properties of $398.3 million will mature. at the present time we intend to exercise extension options, repay or refinance the debt associated with our properties on or prior to their respective maturity dates. at the time of refinancing, prevailing interest rates or other factors, such as the possible reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans, may result in higher interest rates. increased interest expense on the refinanced debt would adversely affect cash flow and our ability to service debt and pay dividends and distributions to security holders. if any principal payments due at maturity cannot be repaid, refinanced or extended, our cash flow will not be sufficient in all years to repay all maturing debt. financial covenants could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. the mortgages and mezzanine loans on our properties generally contain customary negative covenants that limit our ability to further mortgage the properties, to enter into material leases without lender consent or materially modify existing leases, and 14 table of contents to discontinue insurance coverage, among other things. in addition, our 2012 credit facility and senior unsecured notes contain restrictions and requirements on our method of operations. our 2012 credit facility and our unsecured notes also require us to maintain designated ratios, including but not limited to, total debt-to-assets, debt service coverage and unencumbered assets-to-unsecured debt. these restrictions could adversely affect operations, our ability to pay debt obligations and our ability to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. rising interest rates could adversely affect our cash flow. advances under our 2012 credit facility and certain property-level mortgage debt bear interest at a variable rate. these consolidated variable rate borrowings totaled approximately $1.3 billion at december 31, 2013 . in addition, we could increase the amount of our outstanding variable rate debt in the future, in part by borrowing under our 2012 credit facility, which consisted of a $1.2 billion revolving credit facility and $400.0 million term loan and had $0.9 billion available for draw as of december 31, 2013 . borrowings under our revolving credit facility and term loan bore interest at the 30-day libor, plus spreads of 145 basis points and 165 basis points, respectively, at december 31, 2013 . as of december 31, 2013 , borrowings under our 2012 credit facility and junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures totaled $620.0 million and $100.0 million , respectively, and bore weighted average interest at 1.86% and 5.61% , respectively. we may incur indebtedness in the future that also bears interest at a variable rate or may be required to refinance our debt at higher rates. accordingly, increases in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial conditions. at december 31, 2013 , a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates across each of our variable interest rate instruments would increase our annual interest costs by approximately $12.8 million and would increase our share of joint venture annual interest costs by approximately $8.5 million . accordingly, increases in interest rates could adversely affect our ability to continue to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect results of operations. the interest rate hedge instruments we use to manage some of our exposure to interest rate volatility involve risk, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. in addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. no limitation on debt could adversely affect our cash flow. our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness we may incur. as of december 31, 2013 , assuming the conversion of all outstanding units of the operating partnership into shares of sl green's common stock, our combined debt-to-market capitalization ratio, including our share of joint venture debt of approximately $2.1 billion , was approximately 49.4% . our market capitalization is variable and does not necessarily reflect the fair market value of our assets at all times. we also consider factors other than market capitalization in making decisions regarding the incurrence of indebtedness, such as the purchase price of properties to be acquired with debt financing, the estimated market value of our properties upon refinancing and the ability of particular properties and our business as a whole to generate cash flow to cover expected debt service. any changes that increase our debt to market capitalization percentage could be viewed negatively by investors. as a result, our stock price could decrease. debt and preferred equity investments could cause us to incur expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we held first mortgages, mezzanine loans, junior participations and preferred equity interests in 28 investments with an aggregate net book value of approximately $1.3 billion at december 31, 2013 . such investments may or may not be recourse obligations of the borrower and are not insured or guaranteed by governmental agencies or otherwise. in the event of a default under these obligations, we may have to take possession of the collateral securing these interests. borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against such enforcement and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce their obligations to us. declines in the value of the property may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our investment upon foreclosure or realization even if we make substantial improvements or repairs to the underlying real estate in order to maximize such property's investment potential. we maintain and regularly evaluate the need for reserves to protect against potential future losses. our reserves reflect management's judgment of the probability and severity of losses and the value of the underlying collateral. we cannot be certain that our judgment will prove to be correct and that our reserves will be adequate over time to protect against future losses because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific properties, assets, tenants, borrowers, industries in which our tenants and borrowers operate or markets in which our tenants and borrowers or their properties are located. as of december 31, 2013, our reserves for possible credit losses were approximately $1.0 million. if our reserves for credit losses prove inadequate, we could suffer losses which would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, the market prices of our securities and our ability to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. 15 table of contents special servicing activities could result in liability to us. we provide special servicing activities on behalf of third parties. we have been rated by fitch and s&amp;p to provide such services. an intended or unintended breach of the servicing standards and/or our duties to bondholders could result in material liability to us. joint investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority and reliance upon a co-venturer's financial condition. we co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures, co-tenancies or other structures, and by acquiring non-controlling interests in, or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of, a property, partnership, joint venture, co-tenancy or other entity. therefore, we will not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding such property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. investments in partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities may involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that our partners, co-tenants or co-venturers might become bankrupt or otherwise fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. additionally, our partners or co-venturers might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals. these investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions such as a sale, because neither we, nor the partner, co-tenant or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. consequently, actions by such partner, co-tenant or co-venturer might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. in addition, we may in specific circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners, co-tenants or co-venturers. as of december 31, 2013 , our unconsolidated joint ventures owned 24 properties and we had an aggregate cost basis in these joint ventures totaling approximately $1.1 billion . as of december 31, 2013 , our share of unconsolidated joint venture debt, which is non-recourse to us, totaled approximately $1.9 billion . as of december 31, 2013 , our share of unconsolidated joint venture debt, which is recourse to us, totaled approximately $218.4 million . certain of our joint venture agreements contain terms in favor of our partners that could have an adverse effect on the value of our investments in the joint ventures. each of our joint venture agreements has been individually negotiated with our partner in the joint venture and, in some cases, we have agreed to terms that are more favorable to our partner in the joint venture than to us. for example, our partner may be entitled to a specified portion of the profits of the joint venture before we are entitled to any portion of such profits and our partner may have rights to buy our interest in the joint venture, to force us to buy the partner's interest in the joint venture or to compel the sale of the property owned by such joint venture. these rights may permit our partner in a particular joint venture to obtain a greater benefit from the value or profits of the joint venture than us, which could have an adverse effect on the value of our investment in the joint venture and on our financial condition and results of operations. we may also enter into similar arrangements in the future. we may incur costs to comply with environmental laws. we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws. these laws regulate our use, storage, disposal and management of hazardous substances and wastes and can impose liability on property owners or operators for the clean-up of certain hazardous substances released on a property and any associated damage to natural resources without regard to whether the release was legal or whether it was caused by the property owner or operator. the presence of hazardous substances on our properties may adversely affect occupancy and our ability to develop or sell or borrow against those properties. in addition to potential liability for clean-up costs, private plaintiffs may bring claims for personal injury, property damage or for similar reasons. various laws also impose liability for the clean-up of contamination at any facility (e.g., a landfill) to which we have sent hazardous substances for treatment or disposal, without regard to whether the materials were transported, treated and disposed in accordance with law. being held responsible for such a clean-up could result in significant cost to us and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may incur significant costs complying with the americans with disabilities act and other regulatory and legal requirements. our properties may be subject to risks relating to current or future laws including laws benefiting disabled persons, and other state or local zoning, construction or other regulations. these laws may require significant property modifications in the future, which could result in fines being levied against us in the future. the occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse impact on our cash flows and ability to pay dividends to stockholders. under the americans with disabilities act, or ada, all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. additional federal, state and local laws also may require modifications to our properties, or restrict our ability to renovate our properties. we have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine 16 table of contents our compliance. if one or more of our properties is not in compliance with the ada or other legislation, then we may be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance with the ada or similar state or local laws. we cannot predict the ultimate amount of the cost of compliance with ada or other legislation. if we incur substantial costs to comply with the ada and any other legislation, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and/or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders could be adversely affected. our charter documents, debt instruments and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us, which could discourage takeover attempts and prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium over the market price of our stock. provisions of sl green's charter and bylaws could inhibit changes in control. a change of control of our company could benefit stockholders by providing them with a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our stock. however, provisions contained in sl green's charter and bylaws may delay or prevent a change in control of our company. these provisions, discussed more fully below, are: staggered board of directors; ownership limitations; and the board of director's ability to issue additional common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval. sl green's board of directors is staggered into three separate classes. sl green's board of directors is divided into three classes, with directors in each such class serving staggered three year terms. the terms of the class i, class ii and class iii directors expire in 2014, 2015 and 2016, respectively. our staggered board may deter a change in control because of the increased time period necessary for a third party to acquire control of the board. we have a stock ownership limit. to remain qualified as a reit for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of any taxable year. for this purpose, stock may be "owned" directly, as well as indirectly under certain constructive ownership rules, including, for example, rules that attribute stock held by one shareholder to another shareholder. in part to avoid violating this rule regarding stock ownership limitations and maintain our reit qualification, sl green's charter prohibits ownership by any single stockholder of more than 9.0% in value or number of shares of its common stock. limitations on the ownership of preferred stock may also be imposed by us. sl green's board of directors has the discretion to raise or waive this limitation on ownership for any stockholder if deemed to be in our best interest. to obtain a waiver, a stockholder must present the board and our tax counsel with evidence that ownership in excess of this limit will not affect our present or future reit status. absent any exemption or waiver, stock acquired or held in excess of the limit on ownership will be transferred to a trust for the exclusive benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary, and the stockholder's rights to distributions and to vote would terminate. the stockholder would be entitled to receive, from the proceeds of any subsequent sale of the shares transferred to the charitable trust, the lesser of: the price paid for the stock or, if the owner did not pay for the stock, the market price of the stock on the date of the event causing the stock to be transferred to the charitable trust; and the amount realized from the sale. this limitation on ownership of stock could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. debt may not be assumable. we had approximately $6.9 billion in consolidated debt as of december 31, 2013 . certain of this debt in not assumable by a potential purchaser and may be subject to significant prepayment penalties. maryland takeover statutes may prevent a change of control of our company, which could depress our stock price. under maryland law, "business combinations" between a maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. these business combinations include a merger, consolidation, stock exchange or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. an interested stockholder is defined as: any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation's outstanding voting stock; or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock of the corporation. a person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if the board of directors approves in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. 17 table of contents after the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by the board of directors of the corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least: 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation, voting together as a single group; and two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder. the business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer, including potential acquisitions that might involve a premium price for sl green's common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. in addition, maryland law provides that holders of "control shares" of a maryland corporation acquired in a "control share acquisition" will not have voting rights with respect to the control shares except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares of stock owned by the acquiror, by officers of the corporation or by directors who are employees of the corporation, under the maryland control share acquisition act. "control shares" means voting shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock owned by the acquiror or in respect of which the acquiror is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of voting power: (i) one-tenth or more but less than one-third; (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority; or (iii) a majority or more of all voting power. a "control share acquisition" means the acquisition of ownership of, or the power to direct the exercise of voting power with respect to, issued and outstanding control shares, subject to certain exceptions. we have opted out of these provisions of the maryland general corporation law, or the mgcl, with respect to business combinations and control share acquisitions by resolution of sl green's board of directors and a provision in sl green's bylaws, respectively. however, in the future, sl green's board of directors may reverse its decision by resolution and elect to opt in to the mgcl's business combination provisions, or amend sl green's bylaws and elect to opt in to the mgcl's control share provisions. additionally, the mgcl permits sl green's board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is provided in sl green's charter or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses, some of which we do not have. such takeover defenses, if implemented, may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making us an acquisition proposal or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with an opportunity to realize a premium over the then-current market price. future issuances of common stock, preferred stock and convertible debt could dilute existing stockholders' interests. sl green's charter authorizes its board of directors to issue additional shares of common stock, preferred stock and convertible equity or debt without stockholder approval. any such issuance could dilute our existing stockholders' interests. also, any future series of preferred stock may have voting provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company. changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of sl green's common stock. as with other publicly traded equity securities, the value of sl green's common stock depends on various market conditions, which may change from time to time. in addition to the current economic environment and future volatility in the securities and credit markets, the following market conditions may affect the value of sl green's common stock: the general reputation of reits and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies; our financial performance; and general stock and bond market conditions. the market value of sl green's common stock is based primarily upon the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash dividends. consequently, sl green's common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share of common stock. if our future earnings or cash dividends are less than expected, the market price of sl green's common stock could diminish. the trading price of sl green's common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. between january 1, 2013 and december 31, 2013 , the closing sale price of sl green's common stock on the new york stock exchange, or the nyse, ranged from $78.16 to $98.15 per share. our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as those described elsewhere in this "risk factors" section. additionally, the amount of our leverage may hinder the demand for our common stock, which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. 18 table of contents market interest rates may have an effect on the value of sl green's common stock. if market interest rates go up, prospective purchasers of shares of sl green's common stock may expect a higher distribution rate on sl green's common stock. higher market interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for us to distribute and, to the contrary, would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of sl green's common stock to go down. limitations on our ability to sell or reduce the indebtedness on specific mortgaged properties could adversely affect the value of sl green's common stock. in connection with past and future acquisitions of interests in properties, we have or may agree to restrictions on our ability to sell or refinance the acquired properties. these limitations could have adverse consequences on our business and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we face potential conflicts of interest. there are potential conflicts of interest between us and stephen l. green. there is a potential conflict of interest relating to the disposition of certain property contributed to us by stephen l. green, and affiliated entities in our initial public offering. mr. green serves as the chairman of sl green's board of directors and is an executive officer. as part of our formation, mr. green contributed appreciated property, with a net book value of $73.5 million, to the operating partnership in exchange for units of limited partnership interest in the operating partnership. he did not recognize any taxable gain as a result of the contribution. the operating partnership, however, took a tax basis in the contributed property equal to that of the contributing unitholder. the fair market value of the property contributed by him at our formation exceeded his tax basis. the difference between fair market value and tax basis at the time of contribution represents a built-in gain which totaled $3.9 million at december 31, 2013 . if we sell a property in a transaction in which a taxable gain is recognized, for tax purposes the built-in gain would be allocated solely to him and not to us. as a result, mr. green has a conflict of interest if the sale of a property he contributed is in our best interest but not his. there is a potential conflict of interest relating to the refinancing of indebtedness specifically allocated to mr. green. mr. green would recognize gain if he were to receive a distribution of cash from the operating partnership in an amount that exceeds his tax basis in his partnership units. his tax basis includes his share of debt, including mortgage indebtedness, owed by the operating partnership. if the operating partnership were to retire such debt, then he would experience a decrease in his share of liabilities, which, for tax purposes, would be treated as a distribution of cash to him. to the extent the deemed distribution of cash exceeded his tax basis, he would recognize gain. as a result, mr. green has a conflict of interest if the refinancing of indebtedness is in our best interest but not his. members of management may have a conflict of interest over whether to enforce terms of agreements with entities which mr. green, directly or indirectly, has an affiliation. through alliance building services, or alliance, first quality maintenance, l.p., or first quality, provides cleaning, extermination and related services, classic security llc provides security services, bright star couriers llc provides messenger services, and onyx restoration works provides restoration services with respect to certain properties owned by us. alliance is partially owned by gary green, a son of stephen l. green, the chairman of sl green's board of directors. in addition, first quality has the non-exclusive opportunity to provide cleaning and related services to individual tenants at our properties on a basis separately negotiated with any tenant seeking such additional services. our company and our tenants accounted for approximately 17.2% of alliance's 2013 estimated total revenue. the contracts pursuant to which these services are provided are not the result of arm's length negotiations and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the terms and conditions are not less favorable than those which could be obtained from third parties providing comparable services. in addition, to the extent that we choose to enforce our rights under any of these agreements, we may determine to pursue available remedies, such as actions for damages or injunctive relief, less vigorously than we otherwise might because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with gary green. members of management may have a conflict of interest over whether to enforce terms of senior management's employment and noncompetition agreements. stephen green, marc holliday, andrew mathias, andrew levine and james mead entered into employment and noncompetition agreements with us pursuant to which they have agreed not to actively engage in the acquisition, development, management, leasing or financing of commercial office, multifamily residential and retail real estate in the new york city metropolitan area. for the most part, these restrictions apply to the executive both during his employment and for a period of time thereafter. each executive is also prohibited from otherwise disrupting or interfering with our business through the solicitation of our employees or clients or otherwise. to the extent that we choose to enforce our rights under any of these agreements, we may determine to pursue available remedies, such as actions for damages or injunctive relief, less vigorously than we otherwise might because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with the individual involved. additionally, the non-competition provisions of these agreements, despite being limited in scope and duration, could be difficult to enforce, or may be subject to 19 table of contents limited enforcement, should litigation arise over them in the future. mr. green also has interests in two properties in manhattan, which are exempt from the non-competition provisions of his employment and non-competition agreement. sl green's failure to qualify as a reit would be costly. we believe we have operated in a manner for sl green to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes and intend to continue to so operate. many of the reit compliance requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. the determination that sl green is a reit requires an analysis of factual matters and circumstances. these matters, some of which are not totally within our control, can affect sl green's qualification as a reit. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income must come from designated sources that are listed in the reit tax laws. we are also required to distribute to stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income excluding capital gains. the fact that we hold our assets through the operating partnership and its subsidiaries further complicates the application of the reit requirements. even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our reit status. furthermore, congress and the internal revenue service, or the irs, might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified as a reit. if sl green fails to qualify as a reit, we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. also, unless the irs grants us relief under specific statutory provisions, sl green would remain disqualified as a reit for four years following the year in which sl green first failed to qualify. if sl green failed to qualify as a reit, sl green would have to pay significant income taxes and would therefore have less money available for investments or to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. this would likely have a significant adverse effect on the value of our securities. in addition, the reit tax laws would no longer require us to make any distributions to stockholders. we may in the future pay taxable dividends on sl green's common stock in common stock and cash. we may in the future distribute taxable dividends that are payable in cash and shares of sl green's common stock at the election of each stockholder. if we pay such a dividend, taxable stockholders would be required to include the entire amount of the dividend, including the portion paid with shares of common stock, as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, and may be required to pay income taxes with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash dividends received. if a stockholder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. furthermore, with respect to certain non-u.s. stockholders, we may be required to withhold u.s. tax with respect to such dividend, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. in addition, if a significant number of our stockholders sell shares of sl green's common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, such sales could put downward pressure on the market price of sl green's common stock. sl green's board of directors will continue to evaluate our dividend policy on a quarterly basis as it monitors the capital markets and the impact of the economy on our operations. the decision to authorize and pay dividends on sl green's common stock in the future, as well as the timing, amount and composition of any such future dividends, will be at the sole discretion of sl green's board of directors in light of conditions then existing, including the company's earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, debt maturities, the availability of capital, applicable reit and legal restrictions and general overall economic conditions and other factors. we are dependent on external sources of capital. because of distribution requirements imposed on us for sl green to qualify as a reit, it is not likely that we will be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisitions, from income from operations. we therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. in addition, we anticipate having to raise money in the public equity and debt markets with some regularity and our ability to do so will depend upon the general conditions prevailing in these markets. at any time conditions may exist which effectively prevent us, or reits in general, from accessing these markets. moreover, additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of our stockholders' interests, and additional debt financing may substantially increase our leverage. we face significant competition for tenants. the leasing of real estate is highly competitive. the principal means of competition are rent, location, services provided and the nature and condition of the facility to be leased. we directly compete with all owners and developers of similar space in the areas in which our properties are located. our commercial office properties are concentrated in highly developed areas of midtown manhattan and certain suburban central business districts, or cbds. manhattan is the largest office market in the united states. the number of competitive office properties in manhattan and cbds in which our suburban properties are located (which may be newer or better located than our properties) could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease office space at our properties, and on the effective rents we are able to charge. 20 table of contents loss of our key personnel could harm our operations. we are dependent on the efforts of marc holliday, our chief executive officer, and andrew mathias, our president. these officers have employment agreements which expire in january 2016 and december 2016, respectively. a loss of the services of either of these individuals could adversely affect our operations. our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures or cyber security attacks. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication failures and cyber security attacks, such as computer viruses or unauthorized access. any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. we may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. any compromise of our security could also result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, loss or misuse of the information and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. compliance with changing or new regulations applicable to corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses, affect our operations and affect our reputation. changing or new laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including sec regulations and nyse rules, can create uncertainty for public companies. these changed or new laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity. as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. we are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. if our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. in particular, our efforts to comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors' audit of that assessment have required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. further, our directors, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. as a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified directors and executive officers, which could harm our business. forward-looking statements may prove inaccurate see item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations forward-looking information," for additional disclosure regarding forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk see item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market rate risk" for additional information regarding our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. the table below presents the principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of our debt obligations and debt and preferred equity investments and the weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates, including as-of-right extension options, as of december 31, 2013 (in thousands): long-term debt debt and preferred equity investments(1) fixed rate average interest rate variable rate average interest rate amount weighted yield 2014 $ 257,456 5.24 % $ 99,691 2.18 % $ 294,083 9.90 % 2015 268,257 5.19 8,599 2.39 203,826 13.40 2016 580,390 5.11 324,873 3.28 651,074 10.80 2017 1,503,158 5.04 220,335 4.30 111,877 14.70 2018 344,119 5.19 391,450 5.00 20,553 13.20 thereafter 2,694,164 4.97 275,000 5.82 23,426 9.30 total $ 5,647,544 5.10 % $ 1,319,948 3.31 % $ 1,304,839 11.27 % fair value $ 5,886,980 $ 1,327,422 ______________________________________________________________________ (1) our debt and preferred equity investments had an estimated fair value ranging between $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion at december 31, 2013 . the table below presents the principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of our share of our joint venture debt obligations and the weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates as of december 31, 2013 (in thousands): long term debt fixed rate average interest rate variable rate average interest rate 2014 $ 126,994 5.32 % $ 271,317 3.10 % 2015 4,298 5.26 41,035 3.18 2016 397,826 5.08 206,684 3.61 2017 664,580 4.70 265,758 4.04 2018 6.86 28 3.74 thereafter 87,592 7.50 86,352 3.94 total $ 1,281,290 5.77 % $ 871,174 3.36 % fair value $ 1,223,187 $ 863,091 the table below lists our consolidated derivative instruments, which are hedging variable rate debt, and their related fair values as of december 31, 2013 (in thousands): asset hedged benchmark rate notional value strike rate effective date expiration date fair value interest rate cap mortgage libor $ 263,426 6.000 % november 2013 november 2015 9 interest rate cap mortgage libor 137,500 4.000 % october 2013 september 2015 7 interest rate swap credit facility libor 30,000 2.295 % july 2010 june 2016 (1,293 ) interest rate swap mortgage libor 8,500 0.740 % february 2012 february 2015 (45 ) total consolidated hedges $ (1,322 ) in addition to these derivative instruments, some of our joint venture loan agreements require the joint venture to purchase interest rate caps on its debt. all such interest rate caps had no value at december 31, 2013 . we also swapped certain floating rate 65 table of contents debt at some of our joint ventures. these swaps represented in aggregate an asset and obligation of approximately $6.8 million and $17.2 million, respectively, at december 31, 2013 . 66 table of contentsrisk factors declines in the demand for office space in new york city, and in particular midtown manhattan, as well as our suburban markets, including westchester county, connecticut, new jersey and long island, could adversely affect the value of our real estate portfolio and our results of operations and, consequently, our ability to service current debt and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. the majority of our property holdings are comprised of commercial office properties located in midtown manhattan. our property holdings also include a number of retail properties and multifamily residential properties. as a result, our business is dependent on the condition of the new york city economy in general and the market for office space in midtown manhattan in particular. future weakness and uncertainty in the new york city economy could materially reduce the value of our real estate portfolio and our rental revenues, and thus adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service current debt and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. similarly, future weakness and uncertainty in our suburban markets could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service current debt and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. we may be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases expire. when our tenants decide not to renew their leases upon their expiration, we may not be able to relet the space. even if tenants do renew or we can relet the space, the terms of renewal or reletting, taking into account among other things, the cost of improvements to the property and leasing commissions, may be less favorable than the terms in the expired leases. as of december 31, 2014 , approximately 6.3 million and approximately 1.8 million square feet, representing approximately 29.6% and approximately 41.2% of the rentable square feet, are scheduled to expire by december 31, 2019 at our consolidated properties and unconsolidated joint venture properties, respectively, and as of december 31, 2014 , these leases had annualized escalated rent totaling $344.9 million and $104.2 million , respectively. we also have leases with termination options beyond 2019 . in addition, changes in space utilization by our tenants may impact our ability to renew or relet space without the need to incur substantial costs in renovating or redesigning the internal configuration of the relevant property. if we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet the space at similar rates or if we incur substantial costs in renewing or reletting the space, our cash flow and ability to service debt obligations and pay dividends and distributions to security holders could be adversely affected. we face significant competition for tenants. the leasing of real estate is highly competitive. the principal means of competition are rent, location, services provided and the nature and condition of the facility to be leased. we directly compete with all owners, developers and operators of similar space in the areas in which our properties are located. our commercial office properties are concentrated in highly developed areas of midtown manhattan and certain suburban central business districts, or cbds. manhattan is the largest office market in the united states. the number of competitive office properties in manhattan and cbds in which our suburban properties are located, which may be newer or better located than our properties, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease office space at our properties, and on the effective rents we are able to charge. the expiration of long term leases or operating sublease interests where we do not own a fee interest in the land could adversely affect our results of operations. our interests in 420 lexington avenue, 461 fifth avenue, 711 third avenue, 625 madison avenue, 1185 avenue of the americas and 1080 amsterdam avenue, all in manhattan, and 1055 washington avenue, stamford, connecticut, are comprised of either long-term leasehold or operating sublease interests in the land and the improvements, rather than by ownership of fee interest in the land. we have the ability to acquire the fee position at 461 fifth avenue for a fixed price on a specific date. the average remaining term of these long-term leases as of december 31, 2014 , including our unilateral extension rights on each of the properties, is 46 years. pursuant to the leasehold arrangements, we, as tenant under the operating sublease, perform the functions traditionally performed by landlords with respect to our subtenants. we are responsible for not only collecting rent from our subtenants, but also maintaining the property and paying expenses relating to the property. our share of annualized cash rents of the commercial office properties held through long-term leases or operating sublease interests at december 31, 2014 totaled $253.3 million , or 21.1% , of our share of total portfolio annualized cash rent. unless we purchase a fee interest in the underlying land or extend the terms of these leases prior to their expiration, we will lose our right to operate these properties upon expiration of the leases, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. adverse economic and geopolitical conditions in general and the commercial office markets in the new york metropolitan area in particular could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and, consequently, our ability to service debt obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. our business may be affected by volatility in the financial and credit markets and other market or economic challenges experienced by the u.s. economy or real estate industry as a whole. future periods of economic weakness could result in reduced 12 table of contents access to credit and/or wider credit spreads. economic uncertainty, including concern about the growth prospects and the stability of the markets generally, may lead many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide funding to borrowers, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our tenants. our business may also be adversely affected by local economic conditions, as substantially all of our revenues are derived from our properties located in the new york metropolitan area, particularly in new york, new jersey and connecticut. because our portfolio consists primarily of commercial office buildings, located principally in midtown manhattan, as compared to a more diversified real estate portfolio, if economic conditions deteriorate, then our results of operations, financial condition and ability to service current debt and to pay dividends to our stockholders may be adversely affected. specifically, our business may be affected by the following conditions: significant job losses in the financial and professional services industries which may decrease demand for our office space, causing market rental rates and property values to be negatively impacted; our ability to borrow on terms and conditions that we find acceptable may be limited, including as a result of increased credit risk premiums for certain market participants, which could reduce our ability to pursue acquisition and development opportunities and refinance existing debt, reduce our returns from both our existing operations and our acquisition and development activities and increase our future interest expense; and reduced values of our properties, which may limit our ability to dispose of assets at attractive prices or to obtain debt financing secured by our properties and may reduce the availability of unsecured loans. we rely on six large properties for a significant portion of our revenue. six of our properties, 420 lexington avenue, 485 lexington avenue, one madison avenue, 1185 avenue of the americas, 1515 broadway and 388-390 greenwich street, accounted for 42.2% of our portfolio annualized cash rent, which includes our share of joint venture annualized cash rent as of december 31, 2014 . our revenue and cash available to service debt obligations and for distribution to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected if any of these properties were materially damaged or destroyed. additionally, our revenue and cash available to service debt obligations and for distribution to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected if tenants at these properties fail to timely make rental payments due to adverse financial conditions or otherwise, default under their leases or file for bankruptcy or become insolvent. our results of operations rely on major tenants and insolvency or bankruptcy of these or other tenants could adversely affect our results of operations. giving effect to leases in effect as of december 31, 2014 for consolidated properties and unconsolidated joint venture properties, as of that date, our five largest tenants, based on annualized cash rent, accounted for 27.4% of our share of portfolio annualized cash rent, with three tenants, citigroup, inc., viacom international inc., and credit suisse securities (usa) llc accounting for 10.9% , 7.2% , and 5.6% of our share of portfolio annualized cash rent, respectively. our business and results of operations would be adversely affected if any of our major tenants became insolvent, declared bankruptcy, or otherwise refused to pay rent in a timely fashion or at all. in addition, if current conditions in the industries in which our tenants are concentrated deteriorate, we may experience increases in past due accounts, defaults, lower occupancy and reduced effective rents across tenants in such industries, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we may suffer adverse consequences if our revenues decline since our operating costs do not necessarily decline in proportion to our revenue. we earn a significant portion of our income from renting our properties. our operating costs, however, do not necessarily fluctuate in direct proportion to changes in our rental revenue. as a result, our costs will not necessarily decline even if our revenues do. in such event, we may be forced to borrow to cover our costs, we may incur losses or we may not have cash available to service our debt and to pay dividends and distribution to our security holders. we face risks associated with property acquisitions. we may acquire interests in properties, individual properties and portfolios of properties, including large portfolios that could significantly increase our size and alter our capital structure. our acquisition activities may be exposed to, and their success may be adversely affected by, the following risks: we may be unable to meet required closing conditions; we may be unable to finance acquisitions and developments of properties on favorable terms or at all; we may be unable to lease our acquired properties on the same terms or to the same level of occupancy as our existing properties; acquired properties may fail to perform as we expected; 13 table of contents we may expend funds on, and devote management time to, acquisition opportunities which we do not complete, which may include non-refundable deposits; our estimates of the costs we incur in renovating, improving, developing or redeveloping acquired properties may be inaccurate; we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for acquired properties; acquired properties may be located in new markets where we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, lack of business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures and may increase the risks associated with concentration of clients and geographies; and we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions and developments, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and therefore our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may acquire properties subject to both known and unknown liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse to the seller. as a result, if a liability were asserted against us arising from our ownership of those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. unknown liabilities with respect to properties acquired might include: claims by tenants, vendors or other persons arising from dealing with the former owners of the properties; liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties; and liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination. competition for acquisitions may reduce the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and increase the costs of those acquisitions. we plan to continue to acquire properties as we are presented with attractive opportunities. we may face competition for acquisition opportunities from other investors, particularly those investors who are willing to incur more leverage, and this competition may adversely affect us by subjecting us to the following risks: an inability to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well-capitalized real estate investors, including publicly traded and privately held reits, private real estate funds, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, pension trusts, partnerships and individual investors; and an increase in the purchase price for such acquisition property. if we are unable to successfully acquire additional properties, our ability to grow our business could be adversely affected. in addition, increases in the cost of acquisition opportunities could adversely affect our results of operations. we are seeking approval to construct a large, ground-up development project at one vanderbilt avenue. we are currently seeking approval to commence a large development project at one vanderbilt avenue on parcels owned by the company. if we are unable to obtain approval for our proposed project, we may not realize the benefit of the significant costs and expenses incurred to date in the approvals process, and we would need to modify our plans for the assemblage. if the project is approved, the development will not be completed for several years. this extended time frame could cause the project to be subject to shifts in market, leasing or geographic trends that are not consistent with our current business plans for this property. we are subject to risks that affect the retail environment. approximately 3.8% of our portfolio annualized cash rent is generated by retail properties, principally in manhattan. as a result, we are subject to risks that affect the retail environment generally, including the level of consumer spending, consumer confidence and levels of tourism in manhattan. these factors could adversely affect the financial condition of our retail tenants and the willingness of retailers to lease space in our retail properties, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. the occurrence of a terrorist attacks may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to generate cash flow. our operations are primarily concentrated in midtown manhattan. in the aftermath of a terrorist attack or other acts of terrorism or war, tenants in the new york metropolitan area may choose to relocate their business to less populated, lower-profile areas of the united states that those tenants believe are not as likely to be targets of future terrorist activity. in addition, economic activity could decline as a result of terrorist attacks or other acts of terrorism or war, or the perceived threat of such acts. each of these impacts could in turn could trigger a decrease in the demand for space in the new york metropolitan area, which could 14 table of contents increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease our properties on less favorable terms. furthermore, we may also experience increased costs in relation to security equipment and personnel. as a result, the value of our properties and our results of operations could materially decline. potential losses may not be covered by insurance. we maintain all-risk property and rental value coverage (including coverage regarding the perils of flood, earthquake and terrorism) within three property insurance portfolios and liability insurance. as of december 31, 2014, the first property portfolio maintained a blanket limit of $950.0 million per occurrence, including terrorism, for the majority of the new york city properties in our portfolio. the second portfolio maintains a limit of $700.0 million per occurrence, including terrorism, for several new york city properties and the majority of the suburban properties. both policies expire on december 31, 2015. each policy includes $100.0 million of flood coverage, with a lower sublimit for locations in high hazard flood zones. a third blanket property policy covers most of our residential assets and maintains a limit of $380 million per occurrence, including terrorism, for our residential properties and expires january 31, 2016. we maintain two liability policies which cover all our properties and provide limits of $201.0 million per occurrence and in the aggregate per location. the liability policies expire on october 31, 2015 and january 31, 2016. additional coverage may be purchased on a stand-alone basis for certain assets. although we consider our insurance coverage to be appropriate, in the event of a major catastrophe, we may not have sufficient coverage to replace certain properties. our wholly-owned taxable reit subsidiary, belmont insurance company, or belmont, acts as a captive insurance company and as one of the elements of our overall insurance program. belmont was formed in an effort to, among other reasons, stabilize to some extent the impact on us of fluctuations of insurance market conditions. belmont is licensed in new york to write terrorism, nbcr (nuclear, biological, chemical, and radiological), general liability, environmental liability, flood, and d&amp;o coverage. as long as we own belmont, we are responsible for its liquidity and capital resources, and the accounts of belmont are part of our consolidated financial statements. if we experience a loss and belmont is required to pay a claim under our insurance policy, we would ultimately record the loss to the extent of belmont's required payment. belmont is not reinsured by a third-party. therefore, insurance coverage provided by belmont should not be considered as the equivalent of third-party insurance, but rather as a modified form of self-insurance. the terrorism risk insurance act, or tria, which was enacted in november 2002, was renewed december 31, 2005 and again on december 31, 2007. congress extended tria, now called tripra (terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization and extension act of 2007) until december 31, 2014. tripra was not renewed by congress and expired on december 31, 2014. however, on january 12, 2015, tripra was reauthorized until december 31, 2020 (terrorism insurance program reauthorization and extension act of 2015). the law extends the federal terrorism insurance program that requires insurance companies to offer terrorism coverage and provides for compensation for insured losses resulting from acts of certified terrorism, subject to the current program trigger of $100.0 million , which will increase by $20 million per annum, commencing december 31, 2015. there is no assurance that tripra will be extended. our debt instruments, consisting of mortgage loans secured by our properties (which are generally non-recourse to us), mezzanine loans, ground leases, our 2012 credit facility, senior unsecured notes and other corporate obligations, contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance. although we believe that we currently maintain sufficient insurance coverage to satisfy these obligations, there is no assurance that in the future we will be able to procure coverage at a reasonable cost. in such instances, there can be no assurance that the lenders or ground lessors under these instruments will not take the position that a total or partial exclusion from all-risk insurance coverage for losses due to, for example, terrorist acts is a breach of these debt and ground lease instruments allowing the lenders or ground lessors to declare an event of default and accelerate repayment of debt or recapture of ground lease positions. in addition, if lenders require greater coverage that we are unable to obtain at commercially reasonable rates, we may incur substantially higher insurance premiums or our ability to finance our properties and expand our portfolio may be adversely impacted. furthermore, with respect to certain of our properties, including properties held by joint ventures, or subject to triple net leases, insurance coverage is obtained by a third-party and we do not control the coverage. while we may have agreements with such third parties requiring them to maintain adequate coverage and we monitor these policies, such coverage ultimately may not be maintained or adequately cover our risk of loss. additionally, we may have less protection than with respect to the properties where we obtain coverage directly. we face possible risks associated with the natural disasters and the physical effects of climate change. we are subject to the risks associated with natural disasters and the physical effects of climate change, which can include storms, hurricanes and flooding, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations and business. to the extent climate change causes changes in weather patterns, our markets could experience increases in storm intensity and rising sea-levels. over time, these conditions could result in declining demand for office space in our buildings or the inability of us to operate the buildings at all. climate change may also have indirect effects on our business by increasing the cost of (or making unavailable) property insurance on terms we find acceptable, increasing the cost of energy at our properties and requiring us to expend funds as we seek to repair and protect our properties against such risks. there can be no assurance that climate change will not have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations or business. 15 table of contents leasing office space to smaller and growth-oriented businesses could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. some of the tenants in our properties are smaller, growth-oriented businesses that may not have the financial strength of larger corporate tenants. smaller companies generally experience a higher rate of failure than large businesses. growth-oriented firms may also seek other office space as they develop. leasing office space to these companies could create a higher risk of tenant defaults, turnover and bankruptcies, which could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations as well as our ability to make dividends or distributions to our security holders. sl green depends on dividends and distributions from its direct and indirect subsidiaries. substantially all of our assets are held through our operating partnership that holds substantially all of its properties and assets through subsidiaries. our operating partnership's cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by its subsidiaries, and in turn, substantially all of sl green's cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by our operating partnership. the creditors of each of our direct and indirect subsidiaries are entitled to payment of that subsidiary's obligations to them, when due and payable, before distributions may be made by that subsidiary to its equity holders. therefore, our operating partnership's ability to make distributions to holders of its partnership units depends on its subsidiaries' ability first to satisfy their obligations to their creditors and then to make distributions to our operating partnership. likewise, sl green's ability to pay dividends to holders of common stock and preferred stock depends on our operating partnership's ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions payable to holders of preferred units and then to make distributions to sl green. furthermore, the holders of preferred partnership units of our operating partnership are entitled to receive preferred distributions before payment of distributions to holders of common units of our operating partnership, including sl green. thus, sl green's ability to pay cash dividends to its shareholders and satisfy its debt obligations depends on our operating partnership's ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions to holders of its preferred partnership units and then to holders of its common units, including sl green. in addition, sl green's participation in any distribution of the assets of any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries upon the liquidation, reorganization or insolvency, is only after the claims of the creditors, including trade creditors and preferred security holders, are satisfied. debt financing, financial covenants, degree of leverage, and increases in interest rates could adversely affect our economic performance. scheduled debt payments could adversely affect our results of operations. cash flow could be insufficient to pay dividends and meet the payments of principal and interest required under our current mortgages and other indebtedness, including our 2012 credit facility, senior unsecured notes, debentures and indebtedness outstanding at our joint venture properties. the total principal amount of our outstanding consolidated indebtedness was $8.5 billion as of december 31, 2014 , consisting of $1.3 billion under our 2012 credit facility, which is inclusive of our $833.0 million term loan, $1.3 billion under our senior unsecured notes, $100.0 million of junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures and $5.8 billion of non-recourse mortgages and loans payable on 18 of our properties and certain debt and preferred equity investments, and recourse loans on one of our investments. in addition, we could increase the amount of our outstanding consolidated indebtedness in the future, in part by borrowing under our 2012 credit facility. our 2012 credit facility in aggregate currently matures in march 2018, which includes two six-month extension options on the $1.2 billion revolving credit facility component of the facility. in december 2014, we received lender commitments sufficient to modify and extend the revolving credit facility from march 2018 to march 2020 and to reduce the margin by 25 basis points. this modification took effect in the first quarter of 2015. as of december 31, 2014 , the total principal amount of non-recourse indebtedness outstanding at the joint venture properties was $3.8 billion , of which our proportionate share was $1.6 billion . as of december 31, 2014 , the total principal amount of recourse indebtedness outstanding at one of our unconsolidated joint venture properties was $18.4 million . if we are unable to make payments under our 2012 credit facility, all amounts due and owing at such time shall accrue interest at a rate equal to 2% higher than the rate at which each draw was made. if we are unable to make payments under our senior unsecured notes, the principal and unpaid interest will become immediately payable. if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property, resulting in loss of income and asset value. foreclosure on mortgaged properties or an inability to make payments under our 2012 credit facility or our senior unsecured notes could trigger defaults under the terms of our other financings, making such financings at risk of being declared immediately payable, and would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to refinance existing indebtedness, which may require substantial principal payments at maturity. in 2015 , $100.0 million under the master repurchase agreement facility, $120.0 million of mortgage debt on our consolidated properties and $44.7 million of mortgage debt representing the portion of unconsolidated joint venture properties attributable to us matures. at the present time we intend to exercise extension options, repay or refinance the debt associated with our properties on or prior 16 table of contents to their respective maturity dates. at the time of refinancing, prevailing interest rates or other factors, such as the possible reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans, may result in higher interest rates. increased interest expense on the extended or refinanced debt would adversely affect cash flow and our ability to service debt obligations and pay dividends and distributions to security holders. if any principal payments due at maturity cannot be repaid, refinanced or extended, our cash flow will not be sufficient to repay maturing or accelerated debt. financial covenants could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. the mortgages and mezzanine loans on our properties generally contain customary negative covenants that limit our ability to further mortgage the properties, to enter into material leases without lender consent or materially modify existing leases, among other things. in addition, our 2012 credit facility and senior unsecured notes contain restrictions and requirements on our method of operations. our 2012 credit facility and our unsecured notes also require us to maintain designated ratios, including but not limited to, total debt-to-assets, debt service coverage and unencumbered assets-to-unsecured debt. these restrictions could adversely affect operations (including reducing our flexibility and our ability to incur additional debt), our ability to pay debt obligations and our ability to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. rising interest rates could adversely affect our cash flow. advances under our 2012 credit facility and certain property-level mortgage debt bear interest at a variable rate. our consolidated variable rate borrowings totaled $2.3 billion at december 31, 2014 . in addition, we could increase the amount of our outstanding variable rate debt in the future, in part by borrowing additional amounts under our 2012 credit facility, which consisted of a $1.2 billion revolving credit facility and $833.0 million term loan. borrowings under our revolving credit facility and term loan bore interest at the 30-day libor, plus spreads of 145 basis points and 140 basis points, respectively, at december 31, 2014 . as of december 31, 2014 , borrowings under our 2012 credit facility and junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures totaled $1.3 billion and $100.0 million , respectively, and bore weighted average interest at 1.65% and 5.61% , respectively. we may incur indebtedness in the future that also bears interest at a variable rate or may be required to refinance our debt at higher rates. at december 31, 2014 , a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates across each of our variable interest rate instruments would increase our annual interest costs by $15.2 million and would increase our share of joint venture annual interest costs by $8.1 million . our joint ventures may also incur variable rate debt and face similar risks. accordingly, increases in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial conditions and our ability to continue to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect results of operations. the interest rate hedge instruments we use to manage some of our exposure to interest rate volatility involve risk and counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. in addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes and when existing interest rate hedges terminate, we may incur increased costs in putting in place further interest rate hedges. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. increases in our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our stock price. our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness we may incur. as of december 31, 2014 , assuming the conversion of all outstanding units of the operating partnership into shares of sl green's common stock, our combined debt-to-market capitalization ratio, including our share of joint venture debt of $1.6 billion , was 44.8% . our market capitalization is variable and does not necessarily reflect the fair market value of our assets at all times. we also consider factors other than market capitalization in making decisions regarding the incurrence of indebtedness, such as the purchase price of properties to be acquired with debt financing, the estimated market value of our properties upon refinancing and the ability of particular properties and our business as a whole to generate cash flow to cover expected debt service. any changes that increase our debt to market capitalization percentage could be viewed negatively by investors. as a result, our stock price could decrease. a downgrade in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. our credit rating and the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities and our preferred stock could change based upon, among other things, our results of operations and financial condition. these ratings are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and any rating could be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future if, in its judgment, circumstances warrant such action. moreover, these credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our common stock or any other securities. if any of the credit rating agencies that have rated our securities downgrades or lowers its credit rating, or if any credit rating agency indicates that it has placed any such rating on a watch list for a possible downgrading or lowering, or otherwise indicates that its outlook for that rating is negative, such action could have a material adverse effect on our costs and availability of funding, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, the trading price of our securities and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our security holders. 17 table of contents debt and preferred equity investments could cause us to incur expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we held first mortgages, mezzanine loans, junior participations and preferred equity interests in 36 investments with an aggregate net book value of $1.4 billion at december 31, 2014 . some of these instruments may be recourse to their sponsors, while others are limited to the collateral securing the loan. in the event of a default under these obligations, we may have to take possession of the collateral securing these interests. borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against such enforcement and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce their obligations to us. declines in the value of the property may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our investment upon foreclosure or realization even if we make substantial improvements or repairs to the underlying real estate in order to maximize such property's investment potential. in addition, we may invest in mortgage-backed securities and other marketable securities. we maintain and regularly evaluate the need for reserves to protect against potential future losses. our reserves reflect management's judgment of the probability and severity of losses and the value of the underlying collateral. we cannot be certain that our judgment will prove to be correct and that our reserves will be adequate over time to protect against future losses because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific properties, assets, tenants, borrowers, industries in which our tenants and borrowers operate or markets in which our tenants and borrowers or their properties are located. as of december 31, 2014, we had no recorded reserves for possible credit losses. if our reserves for credit losses prove inadequate, we could suffer losses which would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, the market prices of our securities and our ability to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. joint investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority and reliance upon a co-venturer's financial condition. we co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures, co-tenancies or other structures, and by acquiring non-controlling interests in, or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of, a property, partnership, joint venture, co-tenancy or other entity. therefore, we may not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding such property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. investments in partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities may involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that our partners, co-tenants or co-venturers might become bankrupt or otherwise fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. additionally, our partners or co-venturers might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals which are competitive or inconsistent with our business interests or goals. these investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions such as a sale, because neither we, nor the partner, co-tenant or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. in addition, we may in specific circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners, co-tenants or co-venturers. as of december 31, 2014 , our unconsolidated joint ventures owned 22 properties and we had an aggregate cost basis in these joint ventures totaling $1.2 billion . as of december 31, 2014 , our share of unconsolidated joint venture debt, which is non-recourse to us, totaled $1.6 billion . as of december 31, 2014 , our share of unconsolidated joint venture debt, which is recourse to us, totaled $18.4 million . certain of our joint venture agreements contain terms in favor of our partners that could have an adverse effect on the value of our investments in the joint ventures. each of our joint venture agreements has been individually negotiated with our partner in the joint venture and, in some cases, we have agreed to terms that are more favorable to our partner in the joint venture than to us. for example, our partner may be entitled to a specified portion of the profits of the joint venture before we are entitled to any portion of such profits. we may also enter into similar arrangements in the future. these rights may permit our partner in a particular joint venture to obtain a greater benefit from the value or profits of the joint venture than us, which could have an adverse effect on the value of our investment in the joint venture and on our financial condition and results of operations. we may incur costs to comply with environmental and health and safety laws. we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental and health and safety laws which change from time to time. these laws regulate, among other things, air and water quality, our use, storage, disposal and management of hazardous substances and wastes and can impose liability on current and former property owners or operators for the clean-up of certain hazardous substances released on a property and any associated damage to natural resources without regard to whether the release was in compliance with law or whether it was caused by, or known to, the property owner or operator. the presence of hazardous substances on our properties may adversely affect occupancy and our ability to develop or sell or borrow against those properties. in addition to potential liability for clean-up costs, private plaintiffs may bring claims for personal injury, property damage or for similar reasons. various laws also impose liability for the clean-up of contamination at any facility (e.g., a landfill) to which we have sent hazardous substances for treatment or disposal, without regard to whether the materials were transported, treated and disposed in accordance with law. being held responsible for such a clean-up could result in significant cost to us and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 18 table of contents we may incur significant costs complying with the americans with disabilities act and other regulatory and legal requirements. our properties may be subject to risks relating to current or future laws including laws benefiting disabled persons, and other state or local zoning, construction or other regulations. these laws may require significant property modifications in the future, which could result in fines being levied against us in the future. the occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse impact on our cash flows and ability to pay dividends to stockholders. under the americans with disabilities act, or ada, all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. additional federal, state and local laws also may require modifications to our properties, or restrict our ability to renovate our properties. we have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance with laws and regulations to which we are subject. if one or more of our properties is not in compliance with the material provisions of the ada or other legislation, then we may be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance with the ada or state or local laws. we cannot predict the ultimate amount of the cost of compliance with ada or other legislation. if we incur substantial costs to comply with the ada and any other legislation, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and/or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders could be adversely affected. our charter documents, debt instruments and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us, which could discourage takeover attempts and prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium over the market price of our stock. provisions of sl green's charter and bylaws could inhibit changes in control. a change of control of our company could benefit stockholders by providing them with a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our stock. however, provisions contained in sl green's charter and bylaws may delay or prevent a change in control of our company. these provisions, discussed more fully below, are: staggered board of directors; ownership limitations; and the board of directors' ability to issue additional common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval. sl green's board of directors is staggered into three separate classes. sl green's board of directors is divided into three classes, with directors in each such class serving staggered three year terms. the terms of the class i, class ii and class iii directors expire in 2016, 2017 and 2015, respectively. our staggered board may deter a change in control because of the increased time period necessary for a third-party to acquire control of the board. we have a stock ownership limit. to remain qualified as a reit for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of any taxable year. for this purpose, stock may be "owned" directly, as well as indirectly under certain constructive ownership rules, including, for example, rules that attribute stock held by one shareholder to another shareholder. in part to avoid violating this rule regarding stock ownership limitations and maintain our reit qualification, sl green's charter prohibits ownership by any single stockholder of more than 9.0% in value or number of shares of its common stock. limitations on the ownership of preferred stock may also be imposed by us. sl green's board of directors has the discretion to raise or waive this limitation on ownership for any stockholder if deemed to be in our best interest. to obtain a waiver, a stockholder must present the board and our tax counsel with evidence that ownership in excess of this limit will not affect our present or future reit status. absent any exemption or waiver, stock acquired or held in excess of the limit on ownership will be transferred to a trust for the exclusive benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary, and the stockholder's rights to distributions and to vote would terminate. the stockholder would be entitled to receive, from the proceeds of any subsequent sale of the shares transferred to the charitable trust, the lesser of: the price paid for the stock or, if the owner did not pay for the stock, the market price of the stock on the date of the event causing the stock to be transferred to the charitable trust; and the amount realized from the sale. this limitation on ownership of stock could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. debt may not be assumable. we had $8.5 billion in consolidated debt as of december 31, 2014 . certain of this debt in not assumable by a potential purchaser and may be subject to significant prepayment penalties. these limitations could deter a change in control of our company. maryland takeover statutes may prevent a change of control of our company, which could depress our stock price. 19 table of contents under the maryland general corporation law, or the mgcl, "business combinations" between a maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. these business combinations include a merger, consolidation, stock exchange or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. an interested stockholder is defined as: any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation's outstanding voting stock; or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock of the corporation. a person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if the board of directors approves in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. after the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by the board of directors of the corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least: 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation, voting together as a single group; and two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder. the business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer, including potential acquisitions that might involve a premium price for sl green's common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. in addition, maryland law provides that holders of "control shares" of a maryland corporation acquired in a "control share acquisition" will not have voting rights with respect to the control shares except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares of stock owned by the acquiror, by officers of the corporation or by directors who are employees of the corporation, under the maryland control share acquisition act. "control shares" means voting shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock owned by the acquiror or in respect of which the acquiror is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of voting power: (i) one-tenth or more but less than one-third; (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority; or (iii) a majority or more of all voting power. a "control share acquisition" means the acquisition of ownership of, or the power to direct the exercise of voting power with respect to, issued and outstanding control shares, subject to certain exceptions. we have opted out of these provisions of the mgcl, with respect to business combinations and control share acquisitions, by resolution of sl green's board of directors and a provision in sl green's bylaws, respectively. however, in the future, sl green's board of directors may reverse its decision by resolution and elect to opt in to the mgcl's business combination provisions, or amend sl green's bylaws and elect to opt in to the mgcl's control share provisions. additionally, the mgcl permits sl green's board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is provided in sl green's charter or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses, some of which have not been implemented by sl green's board of directors. such takeover defenses, if implemented, may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making us an acquisition proposal or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with an opportunity to realize a premium over the then-current market price. future issuances of common stock, preferred stock and convertible debt could dilute existing stockholders' interests. sl green's charter authorizes its board of directors to issue additional shares of common stock, preferred stock and convertible equity or debt without stockholder approval and without the requirement to offer rights of pre-emption to existing stockholders. any such issuance could dilute our existing stockholders' interests. also, any future series of preferred stock may have voting provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company. changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of sl green's common stock. as with other publicly traded equity securities, the value of sl green's common stock depends on various market conditions, which may change from time to time. in addition to the current economic environment and future volatility in the securities and credit markets, the following market conditions may affect the value of sl green's common stock: the general reputation of reits and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies; our financial performance; and 20 table of contents general stock and bond market conditions. the market value of sl green's common stock is based primarily upon the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash dividends. consequently, sl green's common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share of common stock. if our future earnings or cash dividends are less than expected, the market price of sl green's common stock could diminish. the trading price of sl green's common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. between january 1, 2014 and december 31, 2014 , the closing sale price of sl green's common stock on the new york stock exchange, or the nyse, ranged from $90.96 to $123.10 per share. our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as those described elsewhere in this "risk factors" section. additionally, the amount of our leverage may hinder the demand for our common stock, which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. market interest rates may have an effect on the value of sl green's common stock. if market interest rates go up, prospective purchasers of shares of sl green's common stock may expect a higher distribution rate on sl green's common stock. however, higher market interest rates would not likely result in more funds for us to distribute and could increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of sl green's common stock to decrease. limitations on our ability to sell or reduce the indebtedness on specific mortgaged properties could adversely affect the value of sl green's common stock. in connection with past and future acquisitions of interests in properties, we have or may agree to restrictions on our ability to sell or refinance the acquired properties for certain periods. these limitations could result in us holding properties which we would otherwise sell, or prevent us from paying down or refinancing existing indebtedness, any of which may have adverse consequences on our business and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we face potential conflicts of interest. there are potential conflicts of interest between us and stephen l. green. there is a potential conflict of interest relating to the disposition of certain property contributed to us by stephen l. green, and affiliated entities in our initial public offering. mr. green serves as the chairman of sl green's board of directors and is an executive officer. if we sell a property in a transaction in which a taxable gain is recognized, for tax purposes the built-in gain would be allocated solely to him and not to us. as a result, mr. green has a conflict of interest if the sale of a property he contributed is in our best interest but not his. in addition, mr. green's tax basis includes his share of debt, including mortgage indebtedness, owed by the operating partnership. if the operating partnership were to retire such debt, then he would experience a decrease in his share of liabilities, which, for tax purposes, would be treated as a distribution of cash to him. to the extent the deemed distribution of cash exceeded his tax basis, he would recognize gain. as a result, mr. green has a conflict of interest if the refinancing of indebtedness is in our best interest but not his. members of management may have a conflict of interest over whether to enforce terms of agreements with entities which mr. green, directly or indirectly, has an affiliation. through alliance building services, or alliance, first quality maintenance, l.p., or first quality, provides cleaning, extermination and related services, classic security llc provides security services, bright star couriers llc provides messenger services, and onyx restoration works provides restoration services with respect to certain properties owned by us. alliance is partially owned by gary green, a son of stephen l. green, the chairman of sl green's board of directors. in addition, first quality has the non-exclusive opportunity to provide cleaning and related services to individual tenants at our properties on a basis separately negotiated with any tenant seeking such additional services. our company and our tenants accounted for 14.6% of alliance's 2014 estimated total revenue. while we believe that the contracts pursuant to which these services are provided were the result of arm's length negotiations, there can be no assurance that the terms of such agreements, or dealings between the parties during the performance of such agreements, will be as favorable to us as those which could be obtained from unaffiliated third parties providing comparable services under similar circumstances. in addition, to the extent that we choose to enforce our rights under any of these agreements, we may determine to pursue available remedies, such as actions for damages or injunctive relief, less vigorously than we otherwise might because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with gary green. 21 table of contents members of management may have a conflict of interest over whether to enforce terms of senior management's employment and noncompetition agreements. stephen l. green, marc holliday, andrew mathias, andrew levine and matthew diliberto entered into employment and noncompetition agreements with us pursuant to which they have agreed not to actively engage in (i) the acquisition, development, management, leasing or financing of office real estate in the new york city metropolitan area (in the case of stephen green) and (ii) the acquisition, development, management, leasing or financing of any office real estate throughout the united states and any multifamily residential or retail real estate located in manhattan. for the most part, these restrictions apply to the executive both during his employment and for a period of time thereafter. each executive is also prohibited from otherwise disrupting or interfering with our business through the solicitation of our employees or clients or otherwise. to the extent that we choose to enforce our rights under any of these agreements, we may determine to pursue available remedies, such as actions for damages or injunctive relief, less vigorously than we otherwise might because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with the individual involved. additionally, the non-competition provisions of these agreements, despite being limited in scope and duration, could be difficult to enforce, or may be subject to limited enforcement, should litigation arise over them in the future. mr. green also has interests in two properties in manhattan, which are exempt from the non-competition provisions of his employment and non-competition agreement. sl green's failure to qualify as a reit would be costly and would have a significant effect on the value of our securities. we believe we have operated in a manner for sl green to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes and intend to continue to so operate. many of the reit compliance requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. the determination that sl green is a reit requires an analysis of factual matters and circumstances. these matters, some of which are not totally within our control, can affect sl green's qualification as a reit. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income must come from designated sources that are listed in the reit tax laws. we are also required to distribute to stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income excluding capital gains. the fact that we hold our assets through the operating partnership and its subsidiaries further complicates the application of the reit requirements. even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our reit status. furthermore, congress and the internal revenue service, or the irs, might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified as a reit. if sl green fails to qualify as a reit, this would substantially reduce the funds available for distribution to our stockholders because we would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to our stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates and we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes. also, unless the irs grants us relief under specific statutory provisions, sl green would remain disqualified as a reit for four years following the year in which sl green first failed to qualify. if sl green failed to qualify as a reit, sl green would have to pay significant income taxes and would therefore have less money available for investments, to service debt obligations or to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. this would likely have a significant adverse effect on the value of our securities. in addition, the reit tax laws would no longer obligate us to make any distributions to stockholders. as a result of all these factors, if sl green fails to qualify as a reit, this could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital. we may in the future pay taxable dividends on sl green's common stock in common stock and cash. we obtained a favorable ruling from the irs pursuant to which we may pay taxable dividends partly in cash and partly in shares of our common stock with respect to our 2014, 2015, and 2016 taxable years, so long as we follow the procedures set forth in the ruling. we paid all of our 2014 dividends entirely in the form of cash. however, we may pay a portion of our 2015 or 2016 dividends on our common stock with a combination of cash and shares of our common stock. if we pay such a dividend, taxable stockholders would be required to include the entire amount of the dividend, including the portion paid with shares of common stock, as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, and may be required to pay income taxes with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash dividends received. if a stockholder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. furthermore, with respect to certain non-u.s. stockholders, we may be required to withhold u.s. tax with respect to such dividend, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. in addition, if a significant number of our stockholders sell shares of sl green's common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, such sales could put downward pressure on the market price of sl green's common stock. sl green's board of directors will continue to evaluate our dividend policy on a quarterly basis as it monitors the capital markets and the impact of the economy on our operations. the decision to authorize and pay dividends on sl green's common stock in the future, as well as the timing, amount and composition of any such future dividends, will be at the sole discretion of sl green's board of directors in light of conditions then existing, including the company's earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, debt maturities, the availability of capital, applicable reit and legal restrictions and general overall economic conditions and other factors. 22 table of contents we are dependent on external sources of capital. we need a substantial amount of capital to operate and grow our business, which need is exacerbated by the distribution requirements imposed on us for sl green to qualify as a reit, and it is not likely that we will be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisitions, from income from operations. we therefore rely on third-party sources of capital, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. in addition, we anticipate raising money in the public equity and debt markets with some regularity and our ability to do so will depend upon the general conditions prevailing in these markets. at any time conditions may exist which effectively prevent us, or reits in general, from accessing these markets. moreover, additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of our stockholders' interests, and additional debt financing may substantially increase our leverage. loss of our key personnel could harm our operations and our stock price. we are dependent on the efforts of marc holliday, our chief executive officer, and andrew mathias, our president. these officers have employment agreements which expire in january 2016 and december 2016, respectively. a loss of the services of either of these individuals could adversely affect our operations and could be negatively perceived by the market resulting in a decrease in our stock price. our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures or cyber security attacks. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to a number of risks including energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication failures and cyber attacks and intrusions, such as computer viruses, malware, attachments to e-mails, intrusion and unauthorized access, including from persons inside our organization or from persons outside our organization with access to our systems. the risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attacks and intrusions, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and instructions from around the world have increased. our systems are critical to the operation of our business and any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. we may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. although we make efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our systems and have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. any compromise of our security could also result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, loss or misuse of the information (which may be confidential, proprietary and/or commercially sensitive in nature) and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. our property taxes could increase due to reassessment or property tax rate changes. we are required to pay real property taxes in respect of our properties and such taxes may increase as our properties are reassessed by taxing authorities or as property tax rates change. an increase in the assessed value of our properties or our property tax rates could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our security holders. compliance with changing or new regulations applicable to corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses, affect our operations and affect our reputation. changing or new laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including sec regulations and nyse rules, can create uncertainty for public companies. these changed or new laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity. as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. we are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. if our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. in particular, our continued efforts to comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors' audit of that assessment have required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. further, our directors, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. as a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified directors and executive officers, which could harm our business. 23 table of contents forward-looking statements may prove inaccurate. see item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations forward-looking information," for additional disclosure regarding forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk see item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market rate risk" for additional information regarding our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. the table below presents the principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of our debt obligations and debt and preferred equity investments and the weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates, including as-of-right extension options, as of december 31, 2014 (in thousands): long-term debt debt and preferred equity investments(1) fixed rate average interest rate variable rate average interest rate amount weighted yield 2015 $ 150,555 4.92 % $ 108,805 2.99 % $ 374,188 10.39 % 2016 402,980 4.87 % 245,138 3.39 % 516,492 11.07 2017 1,311,215 4.77 % 186 3.76 % 327,796 9.39 2018 330,119 4.83 % 385,343 3.84 % 70,162 15.25 2019 100,978 3.67 % 831,471 2.14 % 66,736 7.39 thereafter 3,881,184 3.82 % 721,000 0.95 % 53,430 8.79 total $ 6,177,031 4.40 % $ 2,291,943 3.09 % $ 1,408,804 10.51 % fair value $ 6,565,236 $ 2,315,952 ____________________________________________________________________ (1) our debt and preferred equity investments had an estimated fair value ranging between $1.5 billion and $1.8 billion at december 31, 2014 . the table below presents the principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of our share of our joint venture debt obligations and the weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates as of december 31, 2014 (in thousands): long term debt fixed rate average interest rate variable rate average interest rate 2015 $ 4,772 5.63 % $ 39,928 3.15 % 2016 351,558 5.58 % 288,618 3.50 % 2017 244,290 5.52 % 327,713 3.81 % 2018 5.74 % 28 3.48 % 2019 85,850 5.84 % 9,040 3.64 % thereafter 87,587 7.16 % 178,604 4.74 % total $ 774,057 6.10 % $ 843,931 3.37 % fair value $ 775,168 $ 844,857 66 table of contents the table below lists our consolidated derivative instruments, which are hedging variable rate debt, and their related fair values as of december 31, 2014 (in thousands): asset hedged benchmark rate notional value strike rate effective date expiration date fair value interest rate cap - sold mortgage libor $ 504,000 4.750 % may 2014 may 2016 $ 4 interest rate cap mortgage libor 504,000 4.750 % may 2014 may 2016 (4 ) interest rate cap mortgage libor 500,000 4.750 % october 2014 may 2016 4 interest rate cap - sold mortgage libor 500,000 4.750 % november 2014 may 2016 (4 ) interest rate cap mortgage libor 446,000 4.750 % october 2014 may 2016 3 interest rate cap mortgage libor 263,426 6.000 % november 2013 november 2015 interest rate cap mortgage libor 137,500 4.000 % october 2013 september 2015 interest rate swap mortgage libor 200,000 0.938 % october 2014 december 2017 871 interest rate swap mortgage libor 150,000 0.940 % october 2014 december 2017 647 interest rate swap mortgage libor 150,000 0.940 % october 2014 december 2017 645 interest rate swap mortgage libor 144,000 2.236 % december 2012 december 2017 (4,757 ) interest rate swap mortgage libor 86,400 1.948 % december 2012 december 2017 (2,124 ) interest rate swap mortgage libor 72,000 2.310 % december 2012 december 2017 (2,533 ) interest rate swap mortgage libor 72,000 1.345 % december 2012 december 2017 (506 ) interest rate swap mortgage libor 72,000 2.310 % december 2012 december 2017 (2,534 ) interest rate swap mortgage libor 57,600 1.990 % december 2012 december 2017 (1,487 ) interest rate swap credit facility libor 30,000 2.295 % july 2010 june 2016 (774 ) interest rate swap mortgage libor 8,500 0.740 % february 2012 february 2015 (5 ) total consolidated hedges $ (12,554 ) in addition to these derivative instruments, some of our joint venture loan agreements require the joint venture to purchase interest rate caps on its debt. all such interest rate caps had no value at december 31, 2014 . we also swapped certain floating rate debt at some of our joint ventures. these swaps represented in aggregate an asset and obligation of $0.2 million and $0.5 million , respectively, at december 31, 2014 . 67 table of contentsrisk factors 11 item 1b . unresolved staff comments 23 item 2. properties 24 item 3. legal proceedings 33 item 4. mine safety disclosures 33 part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities 34 item 6. selected financial data - sl green realty corp. 36 selected financial data - sl green operating partnership, l.p. item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations 40 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 68 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data 70 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure 149 item 9a. controls and procedures 149 item 9b. other information 153 part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance 154 item 11. executive compensation 154 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters 154 item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence 154 item 14. principal accounting fees and services 154 part iv item 15. exhibits, financial statements and schedules 155 signatures 161 table of contents part i item 1. business general sl green realty corp. is a self-managed real estate investment trust, or reit, with in-house capabilities in property management, acquisitions and dispositions, financing, development and redevelopment, construction and leasing. we were formed in june 1997 for the purpose of continuing the commercial real estate business of s.l. green properties, inc., our predecessor entity. s.l. green properties, inc., which was founded in 1980 by stephen l. green, the company's chairman, had been engaged in the business of owning, managing, leasing, acquiring and repositioning office properties in manhattan, a borough of new york city. reckson associates realty corp., or reckson, and reckson operating partnership, l.p., or rop, are wholly-owned subsidiaries of sl green realty corp. as of december 31, 2015 , we owned the following interests in properties in the new york metropolitan area, primarily in midtown manhattan. our investments in the new york metropolitan area also include investments in brooklyn, long island, westchester county, connecticut and new jersey, which are collectively known as the suburban properties: consolidated unconsolidated total location property type number of properties approximate square feet number of properties approximate square feet number of properties approximate square feet weighted average occupancy (1) commercial: manhattan office 27 21,003,606 5 3,024,981 32 24,028,587 94.2 % retail 9 (2) 408,993 9 347,970 18 756,963 89.1 % development/redevelopment 3 42,635 4 1,952,782 7 1,995,417 59.0 % fee interest 2 783,530 2 783,530 100.0 % 41 22,238,764 18 5,325,733 59 27,564,497 91.7 % suburban office 26 4,235,300 3 705,641 29 4,940,941 79.0 % retail 1 52,000 1 52,000 100.0 % development/redevelopment 1 1,000 1 2 1,000 100.0 % 28 4,288,300 4 705,641 32 4,993,941 79.2 % total commercial properties 69 26,527,064 22 6,031,374 91 32,558,438 89.8 % residential: manhattan residential 4 (2) 762,587 17 2,193,424 21 2,956,011 94.2 % suburban residential 1 (3) 66,611 1 66,611 94.4 % total residential properties 5 829,198 17 2,193,424 22 3,022,622 94.2 % total portfolio 74 27,356,262 39 8,224,798 113 35,581,060 90.1 % ____________________________________________________________________ (1) the weighted average occupancy for commercial properties represents the total occupied square feet divided by total available rentable square feet. the weighted average occupancy for residential properties represents the total occupied units divided by total available units. (2) as of december 31, 2015 , we owned a building that was comprised of approximately 270,132 square feet of retail space and approximately 222,855 square feet of residential space. for the purpose of this report, we have included the building in the retail properties count and have bifurcated the square footage into the retail and residential components. (3) this property was held for sale as of december 31, 2015 . in february 2016, the property was sold. as of december 31, 2015 , we also managed an office building with approximately 336,000 square feet, which is owned by a third party, and held debt and preferred equity investments with a book value of $1.7 billion . our corporate offices are located in midtown manhattan at 420 lexington avenue, new york, new york 10170. as of december 31, 2015 , our corporate staff consisted of 296 persons, including 187 professionals experienced in all aspects of commercial real estate. we can be contacted at (212) 594-2700. we maintain a website at www.slgreen.com . on our website, you can obtain, free of charge, a copy of our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material electronically with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission, or the sec. we have also made available on our website our audit committee charter, compensation committee charter, nominating and corporate governance committee charter, code of business conduct and ethics and corporate governance principles. we do not intend for information contained on our website to be part of this annual report on form 10-k. you can also read and copy any materials we file with the sec at its public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, 4 table of contents dc 20549 (1-800-sec-0330). the sec maintains an internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. unless the context requires otherwise, all references to the "company," "sl green," "we," "our" and "us" in this annual report means sl green realty corp., a maryland corporation, and one or more of its subsidiaries, including the operating partnership, or, as the context may require, sl green only or the operating partnership only, and "s.l. green properties" means s.l. green properties, inc., a new york corporation, as well as the affiliated partnerships and other entities through which stephen l. green has historically conducted commercial real estate activities. corporate structure in connection with the company's initial public offering, or ipo, in august 1997, the operating partnership received a contribution of interests in real estate properties as well as a 95% economic, non-voting interest in the management, leasing and construction companies affiliated with s.l. green properties. we refer to these management, leasing and construction entities, which are owned by sl green management corp, as the "service corporation." the company is organized so as to qualify and have elected to qualify as a reit under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, or the code. substantially all of our assets are held by, and all of our operations are conducted through, the operating partnership. we are the sole managing general partner of the operating partnership, and as of december 31, 2015 , we owned 96.39% of its economic interests. all of the management and leasing operations with respect to our wholly-owned properties are conducted through sl green management llc, or management llc. the operating partnership owns a 100% interest in management llc. in order to maintain the company's qualification as a reit while realizing income from management, leasing and construction contracts with third parties and joint venture properties, all of these service operations are conducted through the service corporation, a consolidated variable interest entity. we, through our operating partnership, expect to receive substantially all of the cash flow from the service corporation's operations. all of the voting common stock of the service corporation is held by an entity owned and controlled by the chairman of the company's board of directors. business and growth strategies sl green is new york city's largest commercial landlord and an s&amp;p 500 company that is focused primarily on acquiring, managing and maximizing the value of manhattan commercial properties. our core business is the ownership of high quality commercial properties and our primary business objective is to maximize the total return to stockholders, through growth in funds from operations and through asset value appreciation. the commercial real estate expertise resulting from owning, operating, investing and lending in manhattan for over 35 years has enabled us to invest in a collection of premier office and retail properties, selected multifamily residential assets, and high quality debt and preferred equity investments. we also own high quality office properties in the surrounding markets of brooklyn, long island, westchester county, connecticut and new jersey. we are led by a strong, experienced management team that provides a foundation of skills in all aspects of property ownership and management including acquisitions, dispositions, management, leasing, operations, capital improvements, and financing. it is with this team that we have achieved a market leading position in our targeted submarkets. we seek to enhance the value of our company by executing strategies that include the following: leasing and property management, which capitalizes on our extensive presence and knowledge of the marketplaces in which we operate; acquiring office, retail and residential properties and employing our local market skills to reposition these assets to create incremental cash flow and capital appreciation; investing in debt and preferred equity positions that generate consistent strong risk-adjusted returns, increase the breadth of our market insight, foster key market relationships and source potential future investment opportunities; executing dispositions through sales or joint ventures that harvest embedded equity that has been generated through management's value enhancing activities; and maintaining a liquid balance sheet with access to diversified sources of property and corporate capital. leasing and property management 5 table of contents we seek to capitalize on our management's extensive knowledge of the manhattan and suburban markets and the needs of our tenants through proactive leasing and management programs, which include: (i) use of in-depth market experience resulting from managing and leasing tens of millions of square feet of office and retail space since the company was founded, predominantly in manhattan; (ii) careful tenant management, which results in long average lease terms and a manageable lease expiration schedule; (iii) utilization of an extensive network of third-party brokers to supplement our in-house leasing team; (iv) use of comprehensive building management analysis and planning; and (v) commitment to tenant satisfaction by providing high quality tenant services at competitive rental rates. it is our belief that our proactive leasing efforts have directly contributed to our average portfolio occupancy consistently exceeding the market average. property acquisitions we acquire core properties for long-term value appreciation and earnings growth. we also acquire non-core properties that are typically held for shorter periods during which we intend to create significant increases in value. this strategy has resulted in capital gains that increase our investment capital base. in implementing this strategy, we continually evaluate potential acquisition opportunities. these acquisitions may come from new properties as well as properties in which we already hold a joint venture interest or from our debt and preferred equity investments. through intimate knowledge of our markets we have developed an ability to source transactions with superior risk-adjusted returns by capturing off-market opportunities that lead to acquisitions at meaningful discounts to replacement costs. in rising markets, we acquire strategic vacancies that provide the opportunity to take advantage of our exceptional leasing and repositioning capabilities to increase cash flow and property value. in stable or falling markets, we target assets featuring credit tenancies with fully escalated in-place rents to provide cash flow stability near-term and the opportunity for increases over time. over the last several years, we have expanded our acquisition activities into selected high value retail locations in manhattan, and multifamily properties. management's breadth of activities in new york city have enabled us to identify and acquire off-market retail in prime manhattan locations. combining our real estate skills and ability to attract premier tenants in an environment of growing retail rents has resulted in transactions that have provided significant capital appreciation. in addition, this same market penetration has permitted us to grow a portfolio of high quality, well-located multifamily properties in acquiring core and non-core properties, directly or through joint ventures with a predominance of high quality institutional investors, we believe that we have the following advantages over many of our competitors: (i) senior management's average 27 years of experience leading a full-service, fully-integrated real estate company focused on the manhattan office market; (ii) the ability to offer tax-advantaged structures to sellers through the exchange of ownership interests, including units in our operating partnership; and (iii) the ability to close transactions quickly despite complicated structures. property repositioning our extensive knowledge of the markets in which we operate and our ability to efficiently plan and execute capital projects provide the expertise to enhance returns by repositioning properties that are underperforming. many of the retail and commercial office properties we own or seek to acquire feature unique architectural design elements, including large floor plates, and other amenities and characteristics that can be appealing to tenants when fully exploited. our strategic investment in these properties, combined with our active management and pro-active leasing, provide the opportunity to creatively meet market needs and generate favorable returns. debt and preferred equity investments we invest in well-collateralized debt and preferred equity investments that generate attractive yields. see note 5, "debt and preferred equity investments," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. knowledge of our markets and our leasing and asset management expertise provide underwriting capabilities that enable a highly educated assessment of risk and return. the benefits of this investment program, which has a carefully managed aggregate size generally not to exceed 10% of our total enterprise value, include the following: our typical investments generally provide high current returns and, in certain cases, the potential for future capital gains. because we are the largest commercial landlord in manhattan, our expertise and operating capabilities provide both insight and operating skills that mitigate risk. in certain cases, these investments may also serve as a potential source of real estate acquisitions for us. this is particularly true when a property's current ownership seeks an efficient off-market transaction, because the current ownership knows that we have already gained knowledge of the asset through the existing investment, and that we can close more efficiently than others if we believe such acquisition would be beneficial. these investments are concentrated in manhattan, which helps us gain market insight, awareness of upcoming investment opportunities and foster key relationships that may provide access to future investment opportunities. 6 table of contents property dispositions we continually evaluate our properties to identify those most suitable to meet our long-term earnings and cash flow growth objectives and contribute to increasing portfolio value. properties that no longer meet our objectives are evaluated for sale, or in certain cases, joint venture to release equity created through management's value enhancement programs or to take advantage of opportune market valuations. the capital proceeds generated from these dispositions can be efficiently re-deployed into property acquisitions and debt and preferred equity investments that we expect will provide enhanced future capital gains and earnings growth opportunities. management may also elect to utilize the capital proceeds from these dispositions to repay existing indebtedness of the company or its subsidiaries or increase cash liquidity. capital resources our objective is to maintain numerous corporate and property level capital sources to obtain the most appropriate and lowest cost financings. this objective is supported by: property operations that generally provide stable and growing cash flows through market cycles due to constraints on new supply in manhattan, long average lease terms, high credit quality tenants and superior leasing, operating and asset management skills; concentration of our activities in a manhattan market that is consistently attractive to property investors and lenders through market cycles relative to other market participants; maintaining strong corporate liquidity and careful management of future debt maturities; and maintaining access to corporate capital markets through balanced financing and investment activities that result in strong balance sheet and cash flow metrics. competition the leasing of real estate is highly competitive, especially in the manhattan office market. we compete for tenants with landlords and developers of similar properties located in our markets primarily on the basis of location, rent charged, services provided, balance sheet strength and liquidity and the design and condition of our properties. we face competition from other real estate companies, including other reits that currently invest in markets other than or in addition to manhattan, private real estate funds, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, pension trusts, partnerships, individual investors and others that may have greater financial resources or access to capital than we do or that are willing to acquire properties in transactions which are more highly leveraged or with different financial attributes than we are willing to pursue. manhattan office market overview manhattan is by far the largest office market in the united states, containing more rentable square feet than the next five largest central business district office markets combined. the properties in our portfolio are concentrated in some of manhattan's most prominent midtown locations. according to cushman and wakefield research services as of december 31, 2015, manhattan has a total inventory of approximately 394.7 million square feet, including approximately 240.3 million square feet in manhattan. cushman and wakefield reserch services estimates that in midtown manhattan, approximately 4.0 million square feet of new construction will become available next year, approximately 41.7% of which is pre-leased. this increase is partially offset by approximately 1.4 million square feet that is projected to be converted from office use to an alternative use. this will add approximately 1.01% to manhattan's total inventory gross of conversions and 0.7% net of conversions. general terms of leases in the manhattan markets leases entered into for space in manhattan typically contain terms that may not be contained in leases in other u.s. office markets. the initial term of leases entered into for space in manhattan is generally seven to fifteen years. tenants leasing space in excess of 10,000 square feet for an initial term of 10 years or longer often will negotiate an option to extend the term of the lease for one or two renewal periods, typically for a term of five years each. the base rent during the initial term often will provide for agreed-upon periodic increases over the term of the lease. base rent for renewal terms is most often based upon the then fair market rental value of the premises as of the commencement date of the applicable renewal term (generally determined by binding arbitration in the event the landlord and the tenant are unable to mutually agree upon the fair market value), though base rent for a renewal period may be set at 95% of the then fair market rent. very infrequently, leases may contain termination options whereby a tenant can terminate the lease obligation before the lease expiration date upon payment of a penalty together with repayment of the unamortized portion of the landlord's transaction costs (e.g., brokerage commissions, free rent periods, tenant improvement allowances, etc.). 7 table of contents in addition to base rent, a tenant will generally also pay its pro rata share of increases in real estate taxes and operating expenses for the building over a base year, which is typically the year during which the term of the lease commences, based upon the tenant's proportionate occupancy of the building. in some smaller leases (generally less than 10,000 square feet), in lieu of paying additional rent based upon increases in building operating expenses, base rent will be increased each year during the lease term by a set percentage on a compounding basis (though the tenant will still pay its pro rata share of increases in real estate taxes over a base year). tenants typically receive a free rent period following commencement of the lease term, which in some cases may coincide with the tenant's construction period. the landlord most often supplies electricity either on a sub-metered basis at the landlord's cost plus a fixed percentage or a rent inclusion basis (i.e., a fixed fee is added to the base rent for electricity, which amount may increase based upon increases in electricity rates or increases in electrical usage by the tenant). base building services, other than electricity, such as heat, air conditioning, freight elevator service during business hours and base building cleaning typically are provided at no additional cost, but are included in the building's operating expenses. the tenant will typically pay additional rent only for services which exceed base building services or for services which are provided other than during normal business hours. in a typical lease for a new tenant renting in excess of 10,000 square feet, the landlord will deliver the premises with existing improvements demolished. in such instances, the landlord will typically provide a tenant improvement allowance, which is a fixed sum that the landlord makes available to the tenant to reimburse the tenant for all or a portion of the tenant's initial construction of its premises. such sum typically is payable as work progresses, upon submission by the tenant of invoices for the cost of construction and lien waivers. however, in certain leases (most often for relatively small amounts of space), the landlord will construct the premises for the tenant at a cost to the landlord not to exceed an agreed upon amount with the tenant paying any amount in excess of the agreed upon amount. in addition, landlords may rent space to a tenant that is "pre-built" (i.e., space that was constructed by the landlord in advance of lease signing and is ready to for the tenant to move in with the tenant selecting paint and carpet colors). occupancy the following table sets forth the weighted average occupancy rates at our office properties based on space leased as of december 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 : percent occupied as of december 31, property 2015 2014 2013 manhattan properties 94.2 % 95.2 % 94.3 % suburban properties 79.0 % 80.7 % 80.4 % same-store properties (1) 93.0 % 91.6 % 90.8 % unconsolidated joint venture properties 89.7 % 92.4 % 89.8 % portfolio 91.6 % 92.4 % 91.5 % ____________________________________________________________________ (1) same-store properties for 2015 represents 46 of our 53 consolidated office buildings owned by us at january 1, 2014 and still owned by us in the same manner at december 31, 2015 . rent growth we are constantly evaluating the conditions of the markets in which we operate in order to assess the potential rent growth embedded in our portfolio. we estimated that rents in place at december 31, 2015 for all leases expiring in future periods, excluding triple net leases, in our manhattan and suburban consolidated operating properties were 16.3% and 7.4% , respectively, below management's estimates of current market asking rents. taking rents are typically lower than asking rents and may vary from building to building. we estimated that rents in place at december 31, 2015 for all leases expiring in future periods, excluding triple net leases, in our manhattan and suburban operating properties owned through unconsolidated joint ventures were 8.4% and 2.3% , respectively, below management's estimates of current market asking rents. at december 31, 2014 , the estimated rents in place for our manhattan and suburban consolidated operating properties were 13.6% and 3.2% , respectively, below management's estimates of the then current market asking rents. at december 31, 2014 , the estimated rents in place for our manhattan and suburban unconsolidated operating properties were 8.3% and 1.8% , respectively, below management's estimates of the then current market asking rents. as of december 31, 2015 , 33.0% and 52.7% of all leases in-place in our manhattan and suburban consolidated operating properties, respectively, were scheduled to expire during the next five years. as of december 31, 2015 , 38.3% and 40.1% of all leases in-place in our manhattan and suburban operating properties owned through unconsolidated joint ventures, respectively, were also scheduled to expire during the next five years. there can be no assurances that our estimates of current market rents are accurate, that market rents currently prevailing will not erode in the future or that we will realize any 8 table of contents rent growth. however, we believe that rents, which in the current portfolio are below market, provide a potential for long-term internal growth. industry segments the company is a reit that acquires, owns, repositions, manages and leases commercial office, retail and multifamily properties in the new york metropolitan area and has two reportable segments: real estate and debt and preferred equity investments. we evaluate real estate performance and allocate resources based on earnings contribution to income from continuing operations. at december 31, 2015 , our real estate portfolio was primarily located in one geographical market, the new york metropolitan area. the primary sources of revenue are generated from tenant rents and escalations and reimbursement revenue. real estate property operating expenses consist primarily of security, maintenance, utility costs, real estate taxes and, at certain properties, ground rent expense. as of december 31, 2015 , three tenants in our office portfolio contributed 9.7% , 9.1%, and 6.2% of our office portfolio annualized cash rent. no other tenant contributed more than 5.0% of our office portfolio annualized cash rent. office portfolio annualized cash rent includes our consolidated annualized cash rent and our share of joint venture annualized cash rent. no property contributed in excess of 10.0% of our consolidated total revenue for 2015 . our industry segments are discussed in note 22, "segment information," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. in january 2016, the tenant that contributed 9.7% of our office portfolio annualized cash rent executed a purchase option provided to them in the lease for the property at 388-390 greenwich street in manhattan. the sale of this property is scheduled to close in december 2017 (subject to customary closing conditions) and would reduce the tenant's contribution to our office portfolio annualized cash rent as of december 31, 2015 to 1.6%. employees at december 31, 2015 , we employed 1,177 employees, 187 of whom were managers and professionals, 778 of whom were hourly-paid employees involved in building operations and 109 of whom were clerical, data processing and other administrative employees. there are currently six collective bargaining agreements which cover the workforce that services substantially all of our properties. highlights from 2015 our significant activities from 2015 included: corporate joining the s&amp;p 500 index in recognition of the company's stature among u.s. publicy traded companies. being recognized by the u.s. epa as a 2015 energry star of the year. receiving final approval from the new york city council for the development of the 1,401 foot tall one vanderbilt office tower directly west of grand central terminal. leasing signing 187 manhattan office leases covering approximately 2.3 million square feet. the mark-to-market on signed manhattan office leases was 15.3% higher in 2015 than the previously fully escalated rents on the same spaces. signing 115 suburban office leases covering approximately 0.7 million square feet. the mark-to-market on signed suburban office leases was 1.3% higher in 2015 than the previously fully escalated rents on the same spaces. executing a new full-building, 49-year net lease at 562 fifth avenue. the lease contains an option for the lessee to purchase the property from the company for $100.0 million with annual escalations in the purchase price after the third year. signing a new lease with giorgio armani corp. that will allow armani to remain in its flagship retail space at 760 madison avenue through 2024. signing a 10-year lease with adidas at 115 spring street. acquisitions closing on the acquisition of eleven madison avenue in midtown south for $2.285 billion plus approximately $300.0 million in costs associated with lease stipulated improvements to the property. 9 table of contents closing on the acquisition of two mixed-use properties located at 187 broadway and 5-7 dey street in downtown manhattan for $63.7 million. closing on the off-market acquisition of a mixed-use residential and retail property located on the upper east side of manhattan for $50.0 million. closing on the acquisition of our joint venture partner's interest in 600 lexington avenue at a gross asset valuation for the consolidated investment of $284.0 million. closing on the acquisition of a 90.0 percent interest in the soho building at 110 greene street based on a gross asset valuation of $255.0 million. closing on the acquisition of a stake in the 22-building, 2.6 million square foot stonehenge portfolio, which included 2,724 rental apartments as of closing, for $40.2 million, expanding our presence in the new york city residential market. closing on the acquisition of additional ownership interests in the 526,000 square foot office building at 800 third avenue increasing our ownership to 60.5 percent. dispositions closing on the sales of tower 45, 140-150 grand avenue, 180 maiden lane and the development properties at 570 &amp; 574 fifth avenue for a total of $992.4 million . closing on the sale of an 80% interest in 131-137 spring street for a total gross asset valuation of $277.8 million . together with our joint venture partners, closing on the sales of the meadows office complex and 315 west 36 th street for total gross asset valuations of $236.1 million . entering into an agreement to sell 885 third avenue for $453.0 million, which closed in february 2016. together with our joint venture partner, entering into an agreement to sell 33 beekman street for total a gross asset valuation of $196.0 million . the transaction is expected to be completed in the first half of 2016, subject to customary closing conditions. entering into an agreement to sell our 90% interest in the residential condominium at 248-252 bedford avenue for a total gross asset valuation of $55.0 million , which closed in february 2016. debt and preferred equity investments originating and retaining, or acquiring, $781.4 million in debt and preferred equity investments, inclusive of advances under future funding obligations, discount and fee amortization, and paid-in-kind interest, net of premium amortization, and recording $520.2 million of proceeds from sales, repayments and participations. finance obtaining an upgrade in corporate credit rating to investment grade from moody's investors service and an upgrade in corporate credit rating outlook from stable to positive from standard &amp; poor's ratings services. standard &amp; poor's ratings services increased the company's credit rating to investment grade in january 2016. expanding our unsecured corporate credit facility by $500 million, to $2.533 billion. issuing $100.0 million of 10-year 4.27% senior unsecured notes via a private placement. repaying the $120.0 million mortgage on 711 third avenue, further increasing the company's unencumbered asset base. together with our joint venture partner, closing on a $350.0 million refinancing of 3 columbus circle. the new 10-year, fixed rate loan at 3.61% replaces the previous $229.6 million floating rate mortgage. 10 table of contents item 1a. risk factors declines in the demand for office space in new york city, and in particular midtown manhattan, as well as our suburban markets, including westchester county, connecticut, new jersey and long island, could adversely affect the value of our real estate portfolio and our results of operations and, consequently, our ability to service current debt and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. the majority of our property holdings are comprised of commercial office properties located in midtown manhattan. our property holdings also include a number of retail properties and multifamily residential properties. as a result, our business is dependent on the condition of the new york city economy in general and the market for office space in midtown manhattan in particular. future weakness and uncertainty in the new york city economy could materially reduce the value of our real estate portfolio and our rental revenues, and thus adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service current debt and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. similarly, future weakness and uncertainty in our suburban markets could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service current debt and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. we believe that job creation in the financial and professional services industries in new york city impacts our overall financial performance. both new leasing activity and overall asking rents could be negatively impacted by declining rates of job creation in the current or future periods. we may be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases expire. if our tenants decide not to renew their leases upon their expiration, we may not be able to relet the space. even if tenants do renew or we can relet the space, the terms of a renewal or new lease, taking into account among other things, the cost of improvements to the property and leasing commissions, may be less favorable than the terms in the expired leases. as of december 31, 2015 , approximately 8.3 million and approximately 1.3 million square feet, representing approximately 35.7% and approximately 38.6% of the rentable square feet, are scheduled to expire by december 31, 2020 at our consolidated properties and unconsolidated joint venture properties, respectively, and as of december 31, 2015 , these leases had annualized escalated rent totaling $477.6 million and $86.9 million , respectively. we also have leases with termination options beyond 2020 . in addition, changes in space utilization by our tenants may impact our ability to renew or relet space without the need to incur substantial costs in renovating or redesigning the internal configuration of the relevant property. if we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet the space at similar rates or if we incur substantial costs in renewing or reletting the space, our cash flow and ability to service debt obligations and pay dividends and distributions to security holders could be adversely affected. we face significant competition for tenants. the leasing of real estate is highly competitive. the principal competitive factors are rent, location, services provided and the nature and condition of the property to be leased. we directly compete with all owners, developers and operators of similar space in the areas in which our properties are located. our commercial office properties are concentrated in highly developed areas of midtown manhattan and certain suburban central business districts, or cbds. manhattan is the largest office market in the united states. the number of competitive office properties in manhattan and cbds in which our suburban properties are located, which may be newer or better located than our properties, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease office space at our properties, and on the effective rents we are able to charge. the expiration of long term leases or operating sublease interests where we do not own a fee interest in the land could adversely affect our results of operations. our interests in 420 lexington avenue, 461 fifth avenue, 711 third avenue, 625 madison avenue, 1185 avenue of the americas, 1080 amsterdam avenue, and 30 east 40th street, all in manhattan, and 1055 washington avenue, stamford, connecticut, are entirely or partially comprised of either long-term leasehold or operating sublease interests in the land and the improvements, rather than by ownership of fee interest in the land. we have the ability to acquire the fee position at 461 fifth avenue for a fixed price on a specific date. the average remaining term of these long-term leases as of december 31, 2015 , including our unilateral extension rights on each of the properties, is 46 years. pursuant to the leasehold arrangements, we, as tenant under the operating sublease, perform the functions traditionally performed by landlords with respect to our subtenants. we are responsible for not only collecting rent from our subtenants, but also maintaining the property and paying expenses relating to the property. our share of annualized cash rents of the commercial office properties held through long-term leases or operating sublease interests at december 31, 2015 totaled $99.8 million , or 7.2% , of our share of total portfolio annualized cash rent. unless we purchase a fee interest in the underlying land or extend the terms of these leases prior to their expiration, we will lose our right to operate these properties upon expiration of the leases, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 11 table of contents adverse economic and geopolitical conditions in general and the commercial office markets in the new york metropolitan area in particular could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and, consequently, our ability to service debt obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. our business may be affected by volatility in the financial and credit markets and other market or economic challenges experienced by the u.s. economy or the real estate industry as a whole. future periods of economic weakness could result in reduced access to credit and/or wider credit spreads. economic uncertainty, including concern about growth and the stability of the markets generally, may lead many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide funding to borrowers, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our tenants. our business may also be adversely affected by local economic conditions, as substantially all of our revenues are derived from our properties located in the new york metropolitan area, particularly in new york, new jersey and connecticut. because our portfolio consists primarily of commercial office buildings, located principally in midtown manhattan, as compared to a more diversified real estate portfolio, if economic conditions deteriorate, then our results of operations, financial condition and ability to service current debt and to pay dividends to our stockholders may be adversely affected. specifically, our business may be affected by the following conditions: significant job losses or declining rates of job creation which may decrease demand for our office space, causing market rental rates and property values to be negatively impacted; our ability to borrow on terms and conditions that we find acceptable may be limited, which could reduce our ability to pursue acquisition and development opportunities and refinance existing debt, reducing our returns from both our existing operations and our acquisition and development activities and increasing our future interest expense; and reduced values of our properties, which may limit our ability to dispose of assets at attractive prices or to obtain debt financing secured by our properties and may reduce the availability of unsecured loans. we rely on five large properties for a significant portion of our revenue. five of our properties, 420 lexington avenue, 11 madison avenue, 1185 avenue of the americas, 388-390 greenwich and 1515 broadway, accounted for 35.9% of our portfolio annualized cash rent, which includes our share of joint venture annualized cash rent as of december 31, 2015 . citigroup, inc. has exercised its option to purchase 388-390 greenwich street for $2.0 billion, net of any unfunded tenant concessions. the closing is scheduled for december 2017 and is subject to customary closing conditions. closing of the sale would reduce citigroup, inc.'s tenant's contribution to our office portfolio annualized cash rent as of december 31, 2015 from 9.7% to 1.6%. our revenue and cash available to service debt obligations and for distribution to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected if any of these properties were materially damaged or destroyed. additionally, our revenue and cash available to service debt obligations and for distribution to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected if tenants at these properties fail to timely make rental payments due to adverse financial conditions or otherwise, default under their leases or file for bankruptcy or become insolvent. our results of operations rely on major tenants and insolvency or bankruptcy of these or other tenants could adversely affect our results of operations. giving effect to leases in effect as of december 31, 2015 for consolidated properties and unconsolidated joint venture properties, as of that date, our five largest tenants, based on annualized cash rent, accounted for 28.4% of our share of portfolio annualized cash rent, with three tenants, citigroup, inc., viacom international inc., and credit suisse securities (usa) llc accounting for 9.7% , 9.1% , and 6.2% of our share of portfolio annualized cash rent, respectively. our business and results of operations would be adversely affected if any of our major tenants became insolvent, declared bankruptcy, or otherwise refused to pay rent in a timely fashion or at all. citigroup, inc., our largest tenant as of december 31, 2015 by share of portfolio annualized cash rent, has exercised its option to purchase 388-390 greenwich street as discussed above. in addition, if business conditions in the industries in which our tenants are concentrated deteriorate, we may experience increases in past due accounts, defaults, lower occupancy and reduced effective rents across tenants in such industries, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. leasing office space to smaller and growth-oriented businesses could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. some of the tenants in our properties are smaller, growth-oriented businesses that may not have the financial strength of larger corporate tenants. smaller companies generally experience a higher rate of failure than larger businesses. growth-oriented firms may also seek other office space as they develop. leasing office space to these companies could create a higher risk of tenant defaults, turnover and bankruptcies, which could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. we may suffer adverse consequences if our revenues decline since our operating costs do not necessarily decline in proportion to our revenue. 12 table of contents we earn a significant portion of our income from renting our properties. our operating costs, however, do not necessarily fluctuate in direct proportion to changes in our rental revenue. as a result, our costs will not necessarily decline even if our revenues do. in such event, we may be forced to borrow to cover our costs, we may incur losses or we may not have cash available to service our debt and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. we face risks associated with property acquisitions. we may acquire interests in properties, individual properties and portfolios of properties, including large portfolios that could significantly increase our size and alter our capital structure. our acquisition activities may be exposed to, and their success may be adversely affected by, the following risks: we may be unable to meet required closing conditions; we may be unable to finance acquisitions and developments of properties on favorable terms or at all; we may be unable to lease our acquired properties on the same terms or to the same level of occupancy as our existing properties; acquired properties may fail to perform as we expected; we may expend funds on, and devote management time to, acquisition opportunities which we do not complete, which may include non-refundable deposits; our estimates of the costs we incur in renovating, improving, developing or redeveloping acquired properties may be inaccurate; we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for acquired properties; and we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions and developments, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and therefore our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may acquire properties subject to both known and unknown liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse to the seller. as a result, if a liability were asserted against us arising from our ownership of those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. unknown liabilities with respect to properties acquired might include: claims by tenants, vendors or other persons arising from dealing with the former owners of the properties; liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties; and liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination. competition for acquisitions may reduce the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and increase the costs of those acquisitions. we may acquire properties when we are presented with attractive opportunities. we may face competition for acquisition opportunities from other investors, particularly those investors who are willing to incur more leverage, and this competition may adversely affect us by subjecting us to the following risks: an inability to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well-capitalized real estate investors, including publicly traded and privately held reits, private real estate funds, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, pension trusts, partnerships and individual investors; and an increase in the purchase price for such acquisition property. if we are unable to successfully acquire additional properties, our ability to grow our business could be adversely affected. in addition, increases in the cost of acquisition opportunities could adversely affect our results of operations. we have commenced construction for our ground-up development project at one vanderbilt avenue. the company has obtained the approvals necessary to commence its significant ground-up development project at one vanderbilt avenue, and has commenced demolition for that project. construction of the project will not be completed for several years. as with any ground-up development project, unforeseen delays and other matters could further delay completion, result in increased costs or otherwise have a material effect on our results of operations. in addition, the extended time frame to complete the project will cause the project to be subject to shifts in market, which could result in leasing or other trends that are not consistent with our current business plans for this property and we may not realize the expected benefits of the project. 13 table of contents we are subject to risks that affect the retail environment. approximately 3.8% of our portfolio annualized cash rent is generated by retail properties, principally in manhattan. as a result, we are subject to risks that affect the retail environment generally, including the level of consumer spending, consumer confidence and levels of tourism in manhattan. these factors could adversely affect the financial condition of our retail tenants and the willingness of retailers to lease space in our retail properties, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. the occurrence of a terrorist attacks may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to generate cash flow. our operations are primarily concentrated in the new york metropolitan area. in the aftermath of a terrorist attack or other acts of terrorism or war, tenants in the new york metropolitan area may choose to relocate their business to less populated, lower-profile areas of the united states that those tenants believe are not as likely to be targets of future terrorist activity. in addition, economic activity could decline as a result of terrorist attacks or other acts of terrorism or war, or the perceived threat of such acts. each of these impacts could in turn trigger a decrease in the demand for space in the new york metropolitan area, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease our properties on less favorable terms. furthermore, we may also experience increased costs in relation to security equipment and personnel. as a result, the value of our properties and our results of operations could materially decline. potential losses may not be covered by insurance. we maintain all-risk property and rental value coverage (including coverage regarding the perils of flood, earthquake and terrorism) within three property insurance portfolios and liability insurance. the first property portfolio maintained a blanket limit of $950.0 million per occurrence, including terrorism, for the majority of the new york city properties in our portfolio and expires december 31, 2017. the second portfolio maintains a limit of $1.5 billion per occurrence, including terrorism, for several new york city properties and the majority of the suburban properties and expires december 31, 2017. each policy includes $100.0 million of flood coverage, with a lower sublimit for locations in high hazard flood zones. a third blanket property policy covers most of our residential assets and maintains a limit of $380.1 million per occurrence, including terrorism, for our residential properties and expires january 31, 2018. we maintain two liability policies which cover all our properties and provide limits of $201.0 million per occurrence and in the aggregate per location. the liability policies expire on october 31, 2016 and january 31, 2017 and cover our commercial and residential assets, respectively. additional coverage may be purchased on a stand-alone basis for certain assets. our wholly-owned taxable reit subsidiary, belmont insurance company, or belmont, acts as a captive insurance company and as one of the elements of our overall insurance program. belmont was formed in an effort to, among other reasons, stabilize to some extent the impact on us of fluctuations of insurance market conditions. belmont is licensed in new york to write terrorism, nbcr (nuclear, biological, chemical, and radiological), general liability, environmental liability, flood, and d&amp;o coverage. as long as we own belmont, we are responsible for its liquidity and capital resources, and the accounts of belmont are part of our consolidated financial statements. if we experience a loss and belmont is required to pay a claim under our insurance policy, we would ultimately record the loss to the extent of belmont's required payment. belmont is not reinsured by a third-party. therefore, insurance coverage provided by belmont should not be considered as the equivalent of third-party insurance, but rather as a modified form of self-insurance. on january 12, 2015, the terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization and extension act of 2007 (tripra) (formerly the terrorism risk insurance act) was reauthorized until december 31, 2020 pursuant to the terrorism insurance program reauthorization and extension act of 2015. the tripra extends the federal terrorism insurance program that requires insurance companies to offer terrorism coverage and provides for compensation for insured losses resulting from acts of certified terrorism, subject to the current program trigger of $100.0 million, which will increase by $20 million per annum, commencing december 31, 2015. our debt instruments, consisting of mortgage loans secured by our properties (which are generally non-recourse to us), mezzanine loans, ground leases, our 2012 credit facility, senior unsecured notes and other corporate obligations, contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance. although we believe that we currently maintain sufficient insurance coverage to satisfy these obligations, there is no assurance that in the future we will be able to procure coverage at a reasonable cost. in such instances, there can be no assurance that the lenders or ground lessors under these instruments will not take the position that a total or partial exclusion from all-risk insurance coverage for losses due to, for example, terrorist acts is a breach of these debt and ground lease instruments allowing the lenders or ground lessors to declare an event of default and accelerate repayment of debt or recapture of ground lease positions. in addition, if lenders require greater coverage that we are unable to obtain at commercially reasonable rates, we may incur substantially higher insurance premiums or our ability to finance our properties and expand our portfolio may be adversely impacted. furthermore, with respect to certain of our properties, including properties held by joint ventures, or subject to triple net leases, insurance coverage is obtained by a third-party and we do not control the coverage. while we may have agreements with such third parties requiring them to maintain adequate coverage and we monitor these policies, such coverage ultimately may not be maintained or adequately cover our risk of loss. additionally, we may have less protection than with respect to the properties 14 table of contents where we obtain coverage directly. although we consider our insurance coverage to be appropriate, in the event of a major catastrophe, we may not have sufficient coverage to replace certain properties. we face possible risks associated with the natural disasters and the physical effects of climate change. we are subject to the risks associated with natural disasters and the physical effects of climate change, which can include storms, hurricanes and flooding, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations and business. to the extent climate change causes changes in weather patterns, our markets could experience increases in storm intensity and rising sea-levels. over time, these conditions could result in declining demand for office space in our buildings or the inability of us to operate the buildings at all. climate change may also have indirect effects on our business by increasing the cost of (or making unavailable) property insurance on terms we find acceptable, increasing the cost of energy at our properties and requiring us to expend funds as we seek to repair and protect our properties against such risks. there can be no assurance that climate change will not have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations or business. sl green depends on dividends and distributions from its direct and indirect subsidiaries. substantially all of our assets are held through our operating partnership that holds substantially all of its properties and assets through subsidiaries. our operating partnership's cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by its subsidiaries, and in turn, substantially all of sl green's cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by our operating partnership. the creditors of each of our direct and indirect subsidiaries are entitled to payment of that subsidiary's obligations to them, when due and payable, before distributions may be made by that subsidiary to its equity holders. therefore, our operating partnership's ability to make distributions to holders of its partnership units depends on its subsidiaries' ability first to satisfy their obligations to their creditors and then to make distributions to our operating partnership. likewise, sl green's ability to pay dividends to holders of common stock and preferred stock depends on our operating partnership's ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions payable to holders of preferred units and then to make distributions to sl green. furthermore, the holders of preferred partnership units of our operating partnership are entitled to receive preferred distributions before payment of distributions to holders of common units of our operating partnership, including sl green. thus, sl green's ability to pay cash dividends to its shareholders and satisfy its debt obligations depends on our operating partnership's ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions to holders of its preferred partnership units and then to holders of its common units, including sl green. in addition, sl green's participation in any distribution of the assets of any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries upon the liquidation, reorganization or insolvency, is only after the claims of the creditors, including trade creditors and preferred security holders, are satisfied. debt financing, financial covenants, degree of leverage, and increases in interest rates could adversely affect our economic performance. scheduled debt payments could adversely affect our results of operations. cash flow could be insufficient to pay dividends and meet the payments of principal and interest required under our current mortgages, our 2012 credit facility, our senior unsecured notes, our debentures and indebtedness outstanding at our joint venture properties. the total principal amount of our outstanding consolidated indebtedness was $10.4 billion as of december 31, 2015 , consisting of $1.9 billion under our 2012 credit facility (inclusive of our $933.0 million term loan), $1.4 billion under our senior unsecured notes, $100.0 million of junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures and $7.0 billion of non-recourse mortgages and loans payable on certain of our properties and debt and preferred equity investments, and recourse loans on one of our investments. in addition, we could increase the amount of our outstanding consolidated indebtedness in the future, in part by borrowing under the revolving credit facility portion of our 2012 credit facility. the $1.6 billion revolving credit facility portion of our 2012 credit facility currently matures in march 2020, which includes two six-month extension options. in the first quarter of 2015 we modified and extended the revolving credit facility from march 2018 to march 2020 and reduced the margin by 25 basis points. this modification took effect in the first quarter of 2015. as of december 31, 2015 , the total principal amount of non-recourse indebtedness outstanding at the joint venture properties was $4.3 billion , of which our proportionate share was $1.7 billion . as of december 31, 2015 , the total principal amount of recourse indebtedness outstanding at one of our unconsolidated joint venture properties was $18.4 million . if we are unable to make payments under our 2012 credit facility, all amounts due and owing at such time shall accrue interest at a rate equal to 2% higher than the rate at which each draw was made. if we are unable to make payments under our senior unsecured notes, the principal and unpaid interest will become immediately payable. if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property, resulting in loss of income and asset value. foreclosure on mortgaged properties or an inability to make payments under our 2012 credit 15 table of contents facility or our senior unsecured notes could trigger defaults under the terms of our other financings, making such financings at risk of being declared immediately payable, and would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to refinance existing indebtedness, which may require substantial principal payments at maturity. in 2016 , $253.4 million under the master repurchase agreement facility, $146.1 million of mortgage debt on our consolidated properties and $529.6 million of mortgage debt representing the portion of unconsolidated joint venture mortgage debt attributable to us matures. at the present time we intend to exercise extension options, repay or refinance the debt associated with our properties on or prior to their respective maturity dates. at the time of refinancing, prevailing interest rates or other factors, such as the possible reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans, may result in higher interest rates. increased interest expense on the extended or refinanced debt would adversely affect cash flow and our ability to service debt obligations and pay dividends and distributions to security holders. if any principal payments due at maturity cannot be repaid, refinanced or extended, our cash flow will not be sufficient to repay maturing or accelerated debt. financial covenants could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. the mortgages and mezzanine loans on our properties generally contain customary negative covenants that limit our ability to further mortgage the properties, to enter into material leases without lender consent or materially modify existing leases, among other things. in addition, our 2012 credit facility and senior unsecured notes contain restrictions and requirements on our method of operations. our 2012 credit facility and our unsecured notes also require us to maintain designated ratios, including but not limited to, total debt-to-assets, debt service coverage and unencumbered assets-to-unsecured debt. these restrictions could adversely affect operations (including reducing our flexibility and our ability to incur additional debt), our ability to pay debt obligations and our ability to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. rising interest rates could adversely affect our cash flow. advances under our 2012 credit facility and certain property-level mortgage debt bear interest at a variable rate. our consolidated variable rate borrowings totaled $3.2 billion at december 31, 2015 . in addition, we could increase the amount of our outstanding variable rate debt in the future, in part by borrowing additional amounts under our 2012 credit facility, which consisted of a $1.6 billion revolving credit facility and $933.0 million term loan. borrowings under our revolving credit facility and term loan bore interest at the 30-day libor, plus spreads of 125 basis points and 140 basis points, respectively, at december 31, 2015 . as of december 31, 2015, borrowings under our 2012 credit facility and junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures totaled $1.9 billion and $100.0 million , respectively, and bore weighted average interest at 1.45% and 3.92% , respectively. we may incur indebtedness in the future that also bears interest at a variable rate or may be required to refinance our debt at higher rates. at december 31, 2015 , a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates across each of our variable interest rate instruments would increase our annual interest costs by $19.5 million and would increase our share of joint venture annual interest costs by $6.5 million . our joint ventures may also incur variable rate debt and face similar risks. accordingly, increases in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial conditions and our ability to continue to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect results of operations. the interest rate hedge instruments we use to manage some of our exposure to interest rate volatility involve risk and counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. in addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes and when existing interest rate hedges terminate, we may incur increased costs in putting in place further interest rate hedges. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. increases in our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our stock price. our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness we may incur. as of december 31, 2015 , assuming the conversion of all outstanding units of the operating partnership into shares of sl green's common stock, our combined debt-to-market capitalization ratio, including our share of joint venture debt of $1.7 billion , was 49.8% . our market capitalization is variable and does not necessarily reflect the fair market value of our assets at all times. we also consider factors other than market capitalization in making decisions regarding the incurrence of indebtedness, such as the purchase price of properties to be acquired with debt financing, the estimated market value of our properties upon refinancing and the ability of particular properties and our business as a whole to generate cash flow to cover expected debt service. any changes that increase our debt to market capitalization percentage could be viewed negatively by investors. as a result, our stock price could decrease. a downgrade in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. our credit rating and the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities and our preferred stock could change based upon, among other things, our results of operations and financial condition. these ratings are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and any rating could be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future if, in its judgment, circumstances warrant such action. moreover, these credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our common stock or any other 16 table of contents securities. if any of the credit rating agencies that have rated our securities downgrades or lowers its credit rating, or if any credit rating agency indicates that it has placed any such rating on a watch list for a possible downgrading or lowering, or otherwise indicates that its outlook for that rating is negative, such action could have a material adverse effect on our costs and availability of funding, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, the trading price of our securities and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. debt and preferred equity investments could cause us to incur expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we held first mortgages, mezzanine loans, junior participations and preferred equity interests in 41 investments with an aggregate net book value of $1.7 billion at december 31, 2015 . some of these instruments may be recourse to their sponsors, while others are limited to the collateral securing the loan. in the event of a default under these obligations, we may have to take possession of the collateral securing these interests. borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against such enforcement and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce their obligations to us. declines in the value of the property may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our investment upon foreclosure or realization even if we make substantial improvements or repairs to the underlying real estate in order to maximize such property's investment potential. in addition, we may invest in mortgage-backed securities and other marketable securities. we maintain and regularly evaluate the need for reserves to protect against potential future losses. our reserves reflect management's judgment of the probability and severity of losses and the value of the underlying collateral. we cannot be certain that our judgment will prove to be correct and that our reserves will be adequate over time to protect against future losses because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific properties, assets, tenants, borrowers, industries in which our tenants and borrowers operate or markets in which our tenants and borrowers or their properties are located. as of december 31, 2015 , we had no recorded reserves for possible credit losses. if our reserves for credit losses prove inadequate, we could suffer losses which would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, the market prices of our securities and our ability to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. joint investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority and reliance upon a co-venturer's financial condition. we co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures, co-tenancies or other structures, and by acquiring non-controlling interests in, or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of, a property, partnership, joint venture, co-tenancy or other entity. therefore, we may not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding such property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. investments in partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities may involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that our partners, co-tenants or co-venturers might become bankrupt or otherwise fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. additionally, our partners or co-venturers might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals which are competitive or inconsistent with our business interests or goals. these investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions such as a sale, because neither we, nor the partner, co-tenant or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. in addition, we may in specific circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners, co-tenants or co-venturers. as of december 31, 2015 , our unconsolidated joint ventures owned 21 properties and we had an aggregate cost basis in these joint ventures totaling $1.2 billion . as of december 31, 2015 , our share of unconsolidated joint venture debt, which is non-recourse to us, totaled $1.7 billion . as of december 31, 2015 , our share of unconsolidated joint venture debt, which is recourse to us, totaled $18.4 million . certain of our joint venture agreements contain terms in favor of our partners that could have an adverse effect on the value of our investments in the joint ventures. each of our joint venture agreements has been individually negotiated with our partner in the joint venture and, in some cases, we have agreed to terms that are more favorable to our partner in the joint venture than to us. for example, our partner may be entitled to a specified portion of the profits of the joint venture before we are entitled to any portion of such profits. we may also enter into similar arrangements in the future. these rights may permit our partner in a particular joint venture to obtain a greater benefit from the value or profits of the joint venture than us, which could have an adverse effect on the value of our investment in the joint venture and on our financial condition and results of operations. we may incur costs to comply with environmental and health and safety laws. we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental and health and safety laws which change from time to time. these laws regulate, among other things, air and water quality, our use, storage, disposal and management of hazardous substances and wastes and can impose liability on current and former property owners or operators for the clean-up of certain hazardous substances released on a property and any associated damage to natural resources without regard to whether the release was in compliance with law or whether it was caused by, or known to, the property owner or operator. the presence of hazardous substances on our properties may adversely affect occupancy and our ability to develop or sell or borrow against those properties. in addition 17 table of contents to potential liability for clean-up costs, private plaintiffs may bring claims for personal injury, property damage or for similar reasons. various laws also impose liability for the clean-up of contamination at any facility (e.g., a landfill) to which we have sent hazardous substances for treatment or disposal, without regard to whether the materials were transported, treated and disposed in accordance with law. being held responsible for such a clean-up could result in significant cost to us and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may incur significant costs complying with the americans with disabilities act and other regulatory and legal requirements. our properties may be subject to risks relating to current or future laws including laws benefiting disabled persons, and other state or local zoning, construction or other regulations. these laws may require significant property modifications in the future, which could result in fines being levied against us in the future. the occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse impact on our cash flows and ability to pay dividends to stockholders. under the americans with disabilities act, or ada, all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. additional federal, state and local laws also may require modifications to our properties, or restrict our ability to renovate our properties. we have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance with laws and regulations to which we are subject. if one or more of our properties is not in compliance with the material provisions of the ada or other legislation, then we may be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance with the ada or state or local laws. we cannot predict the ultimate amount of the cost of compliance with ada or other legislation. if we incur substantial costs to comply with the ada and any other legislation, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and/or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders could be adversely affected. our charter documents, debt instruments and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us, which could discourage takeover attempts and prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium over the market price of our stock. provisions of sl green's charter and bylaws could inhibit changes in control. a change of control of our company could benefit stockholders by providing them with a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our stock. however, provisions contained in sl green's charter and bylaws may delay or prevent a change in control of our company. these provisions, discussed more fully below, are: staggered board of directors; ownership limitations; and the board of directors' ability to issue additional common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval. sl green's board of directors is staggered into three separate classes. sl green's board of directors is divided into three classes, with directors in each such class serving staggered three year terms. the terms of the class i, class ii and class iii directors expire in 2016, 2017 and 2018, respectively. our staggered board may deter a change in control because of the increased time period necessary for a third-party to acquire control of the board. we have a stock ownership limit. to remain qualified as a reit for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of any taxable year. for this purpose, stock may be "owned" directly, as well as indirectly under certain constructive ownership rules, including, for example, rules that attribute stock held by one shareholder to another shareholder. in part to avoid violating this rule regarding stock ownership limitations and maintain our reit qualification, sl green's charter prohibits ownership by any single stockholder of more than 9.0% in value or number of shares of its common stock. limitations on the ownership of preferred stock may also be imposed by us. sl green's board of directors has the discretion to raise or waive this limitation on ownership for any stockholder if deemed to be in our best interest. to obtain a waiver, a stockholder must present the board and our tax counsel with evidence that ownership in excess of this limit will not affect our present or future reit status. absent any exemption or waiver, stock acquired or held in excess of the limit on ownership will be transferred to a trust for the exclusive benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary, and the stockholder's rights to distributions and to vote would terminate. the stockholder would be entitled to receive, from the proceeds of any subsequent sale of the shares transferred to the charitable trust, the lesser of: the price paid for the stock or, if the owner did not pay for the stock, the market price of the stock on the date of the event causing the stock to be transferred to the charitable trust; and the amount realized from the sale. this limitation on ownership of stock could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. debt may not be assumable. 18 table of contents we had $10.4 billion in consolidated debt as of december 31, 2015 . certain of this debt is not assumable and may be subject to significant prepayment penalties. these limitations could deter a change in control of our company. maryland takeover statutes may prevent a change of control of our company, which could depress our stock price. under the maryland general corporation law, or the mgcl, "business combinations" between a maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. these business combinations include a merger, consolidation, stock exchange or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. an interested stockholder is defined as: any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation's outstanding voting stock; or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock of the corporation. a person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if the board of directors approves in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. after the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by the board of directors of the corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least: 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation, voting together as a single group; and two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder. the business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer, including potential acquisitions that might involve a premium price for sl green's common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. in addition, maryland law provides that holders of "control shares" of a maryland corporation acquired in a "control share acquisition" will not have voting rights with respect to the control shares except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares of stock owned by the acquiror, by officers of the corporation or by directors who are employees of the corporation, under the maryland control share acquisition act. "control shares" means voting shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock owned by the acquiror or in respect of which the acquiror is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of voting power: (i) one-tenth or more but less than one-third; (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority; or (iii) a majority or more of all voting power. a "control share acquisition" means the acquisition of ownership of, or the power to direct the exercise of voting power with respect to, issued and outstanding control shares, subject to certain exceptions. we have opted out of these provisions of the mgcl, with respect to business combinations and control share acquisitions, by resolution of sl green's board of directors and a provision in sl green's bylaws, respectively. however, in the future, sl green's board of directors may reverse its decision by resolution and elect to opt in to the mgcl's business combination provisions, or amend sl green's bylaws and elect to opt in to the mgcl's control share provisions. additionally, the mgcl permits sl green's board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is provided in sl green's charter or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses, some of which have not been implemented by sl green's board of directors. such takeover defenses, if implemented, may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making us an acquisition proposal or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with an opportunity to realize a premium over the then-current market price. future issuances of common stock, preferred stock and convertible debt could dilute existing stockholders' interests. sl green's charter authorizes its board of directors to issue additional shares of common stock, preferred stock and convertible equity or debt without stockholder approval and without the requirement to offer rights of pre-emption to existing stockholders. any such issuance could dilute our existing stockholders' interests. also, any future series of preferred stock may have voting provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company. changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of sl green's common stock. as with other publicly traded equity securities, the value of sl green's common stock depends on various market conditions, which may change from time to time. in addition to the current economic environment and future volatility in the securities and credit markets, the following market conditions may affect the value of sl green's common stock: 19 table of contents the general reputation of reits and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies; our financial performance; and general stock and bond market conditions. the market value of sl green's common stock is based on a number of factors including, but not limited to, the market's perception of the current and future value of our assets, our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash dividends. consequently, sl green's common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share of common stock. the trading price of sl green's common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. between january 1, 2015 and december 31, 2015 , the closing sale price of sl green's common stock on the new york stock exchange, or the nyse, ranged from $100.95 to $134.00 per share. on february 22, 2016, the closing sale price of sl green's common stock on the nyse was $90.10. our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as those described elsewhere in this "risk factors" section. additionally, the amount of our leverage may hinder the demand for our common stock, which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. market interest rates may have an effect on the value of sl green's common stock. if market interest rates go up, prospective purchasers of shares of sl green's common stock may expect a higher distribution rate on sl green's common stock. however, higher market interest rates may not result in more funds for us to distribute and could increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of sl green's common stock to decrease. limitations on our ability to sell or reduce the indebtedness on specific mortgaged properties could adversely affect the value of sl green's common stock. in connection with past and future acquisitions of interests in properties, we have or may agree to restrictions on our ability to sell or refinance the acquired properties for certain periods. these limitations could result in us holding properties which we would otherwise sell, or prevent us from paying down or refinancing existing indebtedness, any of which may have adverse consequences on our business and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we face potential conflicts of interest. there are potential conflicts of interest between us and stephen l. green. there is a potential conflict of interest relating to the disposition of certain property contributed to us by stephen l. green, and affiliated entities in our initial public offering. mr. green serves as the chairman of sl green's board of directors and is an executive officer. if we sell a property in a transaction in which a taxable gain is recognized, for tax purposes the built-in gain would be allocated solely to him and not to us. as a result, mr. green has a conflict of interest if the sale of a property he contributed is in our best interest but not his. in addition, mr. green's tax basis includes his share of debt, including mortgage indebtedness, owed by the operating partnership. if the operating partnership were to retire such debt, then he would experience a decrease in his share of liabilities, which, for tax purposes, would be treated as a distribution of cash to him. to the extent the deemed distribution of cash exceeded his tax basis, he would recognize gain. as a result, mr. green has a conflict of interest if the refinancing of indebtedness is in our best interest but not his. members of management may have a conflict of interest over whether to enforce terms of agreements with entities which mr. green, directly or indirectly, has an affiliation. through alliance building services, or alliance, first quality maintenance, l.p., or first quality, provides cleaning, extermination and related services, classic security llc provides security services, bright star couriers llc provides messenger services, and onyx restoration works provides restoration services with respect to certain properties owned by us. alliance is partially owned by gary green, a son of stephen l. green, the chairman of sl green's board of directors. in addition, first quality has the non-exclusive opportunity to provide cleaning and related services to individual tenants at our properties on a basis separately negotiated with any tenant seeking such additional services. our company and our tenants accounted for 14.4% of alliance's 2015 estimated total revenue. while we believe that the contracts pursuant to which these services are provided were the result of arm's length negotiations, there can be no assurance that the terms of such agreements, or dealings between the parties during the performance of such agreements, will be as favorable to us as those which could be obtained from unaffiliated third parties providing comparable services under similar circumstances. sl green's failure to qualify as a reit would be costly and would have a significant effect on the value of our securities. 20 table of contents we believe we have operated in a manner for sl green to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes and intend to continue to so operate. many of the reit compliance requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. the determination that sl green is a reit requires an analysis of factual matters and circumstances. these matters, some of which are not totally within our control, can affect sl green's qualification as a reit. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income must come from designated sources that are listed in the reit tax laws. we are also required to distribute to stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income excluding capital gains. the fact that we hold our assets through the operating partnership and its subsidiaries further complicates the application of the reit requirements. even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our reit status. furthermore, congress and the internal revenue service, or the irs, might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified as a reit. if sl green fails to qualify as a reit, this would substantially reduce the funds available for distribution to our stockholders because we would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to our stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates and we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes. also, unless the irs grants us relief under specific statutory provisions, sl green would remain disqualified as a reit for four years following the year in which sl green first failed to qualify. if sl green failed to qualify as a reit, sl green would have to pay significant income taxes and would therefore have less money available for investments, to service debt obligations or to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. this would likely have a significant adverse effect on the value of our securities. in addition, the reit tax laws would no longer obligate us to make any distributions to stockholders. as a result of all these factors, if sl green fails to qualify as a reit, this could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital. recent tax legislation impacts certain u.s. federal income tax rules applicable to reits and could adversely affect our current tax positions. the recently enacted protecting americans from tax hikes act of 2015 (the act ) contains changes to certain aspects of the u.s. federal income tax rules applicable to us. the act modifies various rules that apply to our ownership of, and business relationship with, our taxable reit subsidiaries ( trss ) and reduces (beginning in 2018) the maximum allowable value of our assets attributable to trss from 25% to 20%. the act makes permanent the reduction of the recognition period (from ten years to five years) during which a reit is subject to corporate-level tax on the recognition of built-in gains in assets of an acquired corporation. the act also makes multiple changes related to the foreign investment in real property tax act, expands prohibited transaction safe harbors and qualifying hedges, and repeals the preferential dividend rule for public reits previously applicable to us. lastly, the act expands the types of assets and income treated as qualifying for purposes of the reit requirements, and makes certain other technical amendments. the provisions enacted by the act and future legislative changes related to those rules described above could impact our results of operations and financial condition. we may in the future pay taxable dividends on sl green's common stock in common stock and cash. we obtained a favorable ruling from the irs pursuant to which we may pay taxable dividends partly in cash and partly in shares of our common stock with respect to our 2014, 2015, and 2016 taxable years, so long as we follow the procedures set forth in the ruling. we paid all of our 2015 dividends entirely in the form of cash. however, we may pay a portion of our 2016 dividends on our common stock with a combination of cash and shares of our common stock. if we pay such a dividend, taxable stockholders would be required to include the entire amount of the dividend, including the portion paid with shares of common stock, as ordinary income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, and may be required to pay income taxes with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash dividends received. if a stockholder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. furthermore, with respect to certain non-u.s. stockholders, we may be required to withhold u.s. tax with respect to such dividend, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. in addition, if a significant number of our stockholders sell shares of sl green's common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, such sales could put downward pressure on the market price of sl green's common stock. sl green's board of directors will continue to evaluate our dividend policy on a quarterly basis as it monitors the capital markets and the impact of the economy on our operations. the decision to authorize and pay dividends on sl green's common stock in the future, as well as the timing, amount and composition of any such future dividends, will be at the sole discretion of sl green's board of directors in light of conditions then existing, including the company's earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, debt maturities, the availability of capital, applicable reit and legal restrictions and general overall economic conditions and other factors. we are dependent on external sources of capital. we need a substantial amount of capital to operate and grow our business. this need is exacerbated by the distribution requirements imposed on us for sl green to qualify as a reit. we therefore rely on third-party sources of capital, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. in addition, we anticipate raising 21 table of contents money in the public equity and debt markets with some regularity and our ability to do so will depend upon the general conditions prevailing in these markets. at any time conditions may exist which effectively prevent us, or reits in general, from accessing these markets. moreover, additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of our stockholders' interests, and additional debt financing may substantially increase our leverage. loss of our key personnel could harm our operations and our stock price. we are dependent on the efforts of marc holliday, our chief executive officer, and andrew w. mathias, our president. these officers have employment agreements which expire in january 2019 and december 2016, respectively. a loss of the services of either of these individuals could adversely affect our operations and could be negatively perceived by the market resulting in a decrease in our stock price. our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures or cyber security attacks. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to a number of risks including energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication failures and cyber attacks and intrusions, such as computer viruses, malware, attachments to e-mails, intrusion and unauthorized access, including from persons inside our organization or from persons outside our organization with access to our systems. the risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attacks and intrusions, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and instructions from around the world have increased. our systems are critical to the operation of our business and any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. we may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. although we make efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our systems and have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. any compromise of our security could also result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, loss or misuse of the information (which may be confidential, proprietary and/or commercially sensitive in nature) and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. our property taxes could increase due to reassessment or property tax rate changes. we are required to pay real property taxes in respect of our properties and such taxes may increase as our properties are reassessed by taxing authorities or as property tax rates change. an increase in the assessed value of our properties or our property tax rates could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our security holders. compliance with changing or new regulations applicable to corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses, affect our operations and affect our reputation. changing or new laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including sec regulations and nyse rules, can create uncertainty for public companies. these changed or new laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity. as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. we are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. if our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. in particular, our continued efforts to comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors' audit of that assessment have required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. further, our directors, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. as a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified directors and executive officers, which could harm our business. forward-looking statements may prove inaccurate. see item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations forward-looking information," for additional disclosure regarding forward-looking statements. 22 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 68 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk see item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market rate risk" for additional information regarding our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. the table below presents the principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of our debt obligations and debt and preferred equity investments and the weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates, including as-of-right extension options, as of december 31, 2015 (in thousands): long-term debt debt and preferred equity investments(1) fixed rate average interest rate variable rate average interest rate amount weighted yield 2016 $ 402,827 4.39 % $ 302,984 1.95 % $ 591,164 11.17 % 2017 1,141,214 4.29 % 149,171 2.14 % 631,071 9.73 2018 330,119 4.33 % 3,868 2.29 % 327,334 9.96 2019 100,255 4.53 % 931,471 2.57 % 67,015 7.45 2020 707,330 4.29 % 1,269,000 3.03 % thereafter 4,574,579 4.04 % 546,000 % 53,436 8.79 total $ 7,256,324 4.25 % $ 3,202,494 0.39 % $ 1,670,020 10.51 % fair value $ 7,561,228 $ 3,165,788 ____________________________________________________________________ (1) our debt and preferred equity investments had an estimated fair value ranging between $1.7 billion and $1.8 billion at december 31, 2015 . the table below presents the principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of our share of our joint venture debt obligations and the weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates as of december 31, 2015 (in thousands): long term debt fixed rate average interest rate variable rate average interest rate 2016 $ 348,548 5.31 % $ 181,098 3.16 % 2017 336,899 5.02 % 278,186 2.98 % 2018 2,168 5.13 % 27 2.44 % 2019 95,647 5.41 % 9,040 4.20 % 2020 135 5.69 % 30,163 5.36 % thereafter 268,003 7.77 % 183,123 7.28 % total $ 1,051,400 5.84 % $ 681,637 4.20 % fair value $ 1,040,461 $ 680,654 68 table of contents the table below lists our consolidated derivative instruments, which are hedging variable rate debt, and their related fair values as of december 31, 2015 (in thousands): asset hedged benchmark rate notional value strike rate effective date expiration date fair value interest rate cap - sold mortgage libor $ 504,000 4.750 % may 2014 may 2016 $ interest rate cap mortgage libor 504,000 4.750 % may 2014 may 2016 interest rate cap mortgage libor 500,000 4.750 % october 2014 may 2016 interest rate cap - sold mortgage libor 500,000 4.750 % november 2014 may 2016 interest rate cap mortgage libor 446,000 4.750 % october 2014 may 2016 interest rate swap mortgage libor 200,000 0.938 % october 2014 december 2017 71 interest rate swap mortgage libor 150,000 0.940 % october 2014 december 2017 47 interest rate swap mortgage libor 150,000 0.940 % october 2014 december 2017 47 interest rate swap mortgage libor 144,000 2.236 % december 2012 december 2017 (3,516 ) interest rate swap mortgage libor 86,400 1.948 % december 2012 december 2017 (1,630 ) interest rate swap mortgage libor 72,000 2.310 % december 2012 december 2017 (1,862 ) interest rate swap mortgage libor 72,000 1.345 % december 2012 december 2017 (522 ) interest rate swap mortgage libor 72,000 2.310 % december 2012 december 2017 (1,859 ) interest rate swap mortgage libor 57,600 1.990 % december 2012 december 2017 (1,134 ) interest rate swap mortgage libor 30,000 2.295 % july 2010 june 2016 (241 ) interest rate swap credit facility libor 14,409 0.500 % january 2015 january 2017 36 interest rate swap mortgage libor 8,018 0.852 % february 2015 february 2017 (12 ) interest rate cap mortgage libor 137,500 4.000 % september 2015 september 2017 3 total consolidated hedges $ (10,572 ) in addition to these derivative instruments, some of our joint venture loan agreements require the joint venture to purchase interest rate caps on its debt. all such interest rate caps had no value at december 31, 2015 . we also swapped certain floating rate debt at some of our joint ventures. these swaps represented in aggregate an asset and obligation of $0.06 million and $1.21 million, respectively, at december 31, 2015 . 69 table of contentsrisk factors 11 item 1b . unresolved staff comments 22 item 2. properties 23 item 3. legal proceedings 32 item 4. mine safety disclosures 32 part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities 33 item 6. selected financial data - sl green realty corp. 35 selected financial data - sl green operating partnership, l.p. item 7 management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations 39 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 67 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data 69 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure 148 item 9a. controls and procedures 148 item 9b. other information 152 part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance 153 item 11. executive compensation 153 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters 153 item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence 153 item 14. principal accounting fees and services 153 part iv item 15. exhibits, financial statements and schedules 154 signatures 160 table of contents part i item 1. business general sl green realty corp. is a self-managed real estate investment trust, or reit, with in-house capabilities in property management, acquisitions and dispositions, financing, development and redevelopment, construction and leasing. we were formed in june, 1997 for the purpose of continuing the commercial real estate business of s.l. green properties, inc., our predecessor entity. s.l. green properties, inc., which was founded in 1980 by stephen l. green, the company's chairman, had been engaged in the business of owning, managing, leasing, acquiring, and repositioning office properties in manhattan, a borough of new york city. reckson associates realty corp., or reckson, and reckson operating partnership, l.p., or rop, are wholly-owned subsidiaries of sl green realty corp. as of december 31, 2016 , we owned the following interests in properties in the new york metropolitan area, primarily in midtown manhattan. our investments in the new york metropolitan area also include investments in brooklyn, long island, westchester county, connecticut and new jersey, which are collectively known as the suburban properties: consolidated unconsolidated total location property type number of properties approximate square feet number of properties approximate square feet number of properties approximate square feet weighted average occupancy (1) commercial: manhattan office 24 16,054,606 7 6,558,139 31 22,612,745 94.9 % retail 10 (2) 418,093 9 347,970 19 766,063 85.6 % development/redevelopment 3 42,635 3 770,514 6 813,149 52.3 % fee interest 1 176,530 1 26,926 2 203,456 100.0 % 38 16,691,864 20 7,703,549 58 24,395,413 93.2 % suburban office 25 4,113,800 2 640,000 27 4,753,800 82.6 % retail 1 52,000 1 52,000 100.0 % development/redevelopment 1 1,000 1 2 1,000 100.0 % 27 4,166,800 3 640,000 30 4,806,800 82.8 % total commercial properties 65 20,858,664 23 8,343,549 88 29,202,213 91.5 % residential: manhattan residential 3 (2) 472,105 18 3,247,764 21 3,719,869 83.8 % suburban residential % total residential properties 3 472,105 18 3,247,764 21 3,719,869 83.8 % total portfolio 68 21,330,769 41 11,591,313 109 32,922,082 90.6 % ____________________________________________________________________ (1) the weighted average occupancy for commercial properties represents the total occupied square feet divided by total square footage at acquisition. the weighted average occupancy for residential properties represents the total occupied units divided by total available units. (2) as of december 31, 2016 , we owned a building that was comprised of approximately 270,132 square feet of retail space and approximately 222,855 square feet of residential space. for the purpose of this report, we have included the building in the number of retail properties we own. however, we have included only the retail square footage in the retail approximate square footage, and have listed the balance of the square footage as residential square footage. as of december 31, 2016 , we also managed an office building with approximately 336,000 square feet, which is owned by a third party, and held debt and preferred equity investments with a book value of $2.0 billion , including $0.3 billion of debt and preferred equity investments and other financing receivables that are included in balance sheet line items other than the debt and preferred equity investments line item. our corporate offices are located in midtown manhattan at 420 lexington avenue, new york, new york 10170. as of december 31, 2016 , our corporate staff consisted of 307 persons, including 209 professionals experienced in all aspects of commercial real estate. we can be contacted at (212) 594-2700. we maintain a website at www.slgreen.com . on our website, you can obtain, free of charge, a copy of our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material electronically with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission, or the sec. we have also made available on our website our audit committee charter, compensation committee charter, nominating and corporate governance committee charter, code of business conduct and ethics and corporate governance principles. we do not intend for information contained on our website to be part of this annual report on form 10-k. you can also read and copy any materials we file with the sec at its public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, 4 table of contents dc 20549 (1-800-sec-0330). the sec maintains an internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. unless the context requires otherwise, all references to the "company," "sl green," "we," "our" and "us" in this annual report means sl green realty corp., a maryland corporation, and one or more of its subsidiaries, including the operating partnership, or, as the context may require, sl green only or the operating partnership only, and "s.l. green properties" means s.l. green properties, inc., a new york corporation, as well as the affiliated partnerships and other entities through which stephen l. green historically conducted commercial real estate activities. corporate structure in connection with the company's initial public offering, or ipo, in august 1997, the operating partnership received a contribution of interests in real estate properties as well as a 95% economic, non-voting interest in the management, leasing and construction companies affiliated with s.l. green properties. we refer to these management, leasing and construction entities, which are owned by s.l. green management corp, as the "service corporation." the company is organized so as to qualify and has elected to qualify as a reit under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, or the code. substantially all of our assets are held by, and all of our operations are conducted through, the operating partnership. we are the sole managing general partner of the operating partnership, and as of december 31, 2016 , we owned 95.84% of its economic interests. all of the management and leasing operations with respect to our wholly-owned properties are conducted through sl green management llc, or management llc. the operating partnership owns a 100% interest in management llc. in order to maintain the company's qualification as a reit while realizing income from management, leasing and construction contracts with third parties and joint venture properties, all of these service operations are conducted through the service corporation, a consolidated variable interest entity. we, through our operating partnership, receive substantially all of the cash flow from the service corporation's operations. all of the voting common stock of the service corporation is held by an entity owned and controlled by the chairman of the company's board of directors. business and growth strategies sl green is new york city's largest owner of commercial real estate and an investment-grade s&amp;p 500 company that is focused primarily on owning, managing and maximizing the value of manhattan commercial properties. our core business is the ownership of high quality commercial properties and our primary business objective is to maximize the total return to stockholders, through growth in net income attributable to common stockholders and funds from operations and through asset value appreciation. the commercial real estate expertise resulting from owning, operating, investing, developing, redeveloping and lending on real estate in manhattan for over 36 years has enabled us to invest in a collection of premier office and retail properties, selected multifamily residential assets, and high quality debt and preferred equity investments. we also own high quality office properties in the surrounding markets of brooklyn, long island, westchester county, connecticut and new jersey. we are led by a strong, experienced management team that provides a foundation of skills in all aspects of real estate, including acquisitions, dispositions, management, leasing, development, redevelopment, and financing. it is with this team that we have achieved a market leading position in our targeted submarkets. we seek to enhance the value of our company by executing strategies that include the following: leasing and property management, which capitalizes on our extensive presence and knowledge of the marketplaces in which we operate; acquiring office, retail and residential properties and employing our local market skills to reposition these assets to create incremental cash flow and capital appreciation; identifying properties primed for development/redevelopment and maximizing value through redevelopment or reconfiguration to match current workplace, retail and housing trends; investing in debt and preferred equity positions that generate consistently strong risk-adjusted returns, increase the breadth of our market insight, foster key market relationships and source potential future investment opportunities; executing dispositions through sales or joint ventures that harvest embedded equity which has been generated through management's value enhancing activities; and maintaining a prudently levered, liquid balance sheet with consistent access to diversified sources of property level and corporate capital. 5 table of contents leasing and property management we seek to capitalize on our management's extensive knowledge of new york city and surrounding suburban markets and the needs of our tenants through proactive leasing and management programs, which include: (i) use of in-depth market experience resulting from managing and leasing tens of millions of square feet of office and retail space since the company was founded, predominantly in manhattan; (ii) careful tenant management, which results in long average lease terms and a manageable lease expiration schedule; (iii) utilization of an extensive network of third-party brokers to supplement our in-house leasing team; (iv) use of comprehensive building management analysis and planning; and (v) a commitment to tenant satisfaction by providing high quality tenant services at competitive rental rates. we believe that our proactive leasing efforts have directly contributed to our average portfolio occupancy consistently exceeding the market average. property acquisitions we acquire core properties for long-term value appreciation and earnings growth. we also acquire non-core properties that are typically held for shorter periods during which we intend to create significant increases in value. this strategy has resulted in capital gains that increase our investment capital base. in implementing this strategy, we continually evaluate potential acquisition opportunities. these opportunities may come from new properties as well as acquisitions in which we already hold a joint venture interest or, from time to time, from our debt and preferred equity investments. through intimate knowledge of our markets we have developed an ability to source transactions with superior risk-adjusted returns by capturing off-market opportunities. in rising markets, we primarily seek to acquire strategic vacancies that provide the opportunity to take advantage of our exceptional leasing and repositioning capabilities to increase cash flow and property value. in stable or falling markets, we primarily target assets featuring credit tenancies with fully escalated in-place rents to provide cash flow stability near-term and the opportunity for increases over time. management's breadth of activities and expertise in new york city has also enabled us to identify and acquire retail properties in prime manhattan locations. combining our real estate skills and ability to attract premier tenants has resulted in transactions that have provided significant capital appreciation. this same market penetration has permitted us to grow a portfolio of high quality, well-located multifamily properties we believe that we have many advantages over our competitors in acquiring core and non-core properties, both directly and through our joint venture program that includes a predominance of high quality institutional investors. those advantages include: (i) senior management's average 28 years of experience leading a full-service, fully-integrated real estate company focused on the manhattan market; (ii) the ability to offer tax-advantaged structures to sellers through the exchange of ownership interests, including units in our operating partnership; and (iii) the ability to underwrite and close transactions on an expedited basis even when the transaction requires a complicated structure. property dispositions we continually evaluate our portfolio to identify those properties that are most likely to meet our long-term earnings and cash flow growth objectives and contribute to increasing portfolio value. properties that no longer meet our objectives are evaluated for sale, or in certain cases, joint venture to release equity created through management's value enhancement programs or to take advantage of attractive market valuations. we seek to efficiently deploy the capital proceeds generated from these dispositions into property acquisitions and debt and preferred equity investments that we expect will provide enhanced future capital gains and earnings growth opportunities. management may also elect to utilize the capital proceeds from these dispositions to repay existing indebtedness of the company or its subsidiaries, repurchase shares of our common stock, or increase cash liquidity. property repositioning our extensive knowledge of the markets in which we operate and our ability to efficiently plan and execute capital projects provide the expertise to enhance returns by repositioning properties that are underperforming. many of the properties we own or seek to acquire feature unique architectural design elements, including large floor plates, and other amenities and characteristics that can be appealing to tenants when fully exploited. our strategic investment in these properties, combined with our active management and pro-active leasing, provide the opportunity to creatively meet market needs and generate favorable returns. development / redevelopment our constant interactions with tenants and other market participants keep us abreast of innovations in workplace layout, store design and smart living. we leverage this information to identify properties primed for development or redevelopment to meet these demands and unlock value. our deep visibility into the market allows us to acquire locations before others see the opportunity. the expertise and relationships that we have built from managing complex construction projects in new york city 6 table of contents and its surrounding areas allow us to cost efficiently add new and renovated assets of the highest quality and desirability to our operating portfolio. debt and preferred equity investments we invest in well-collateralized debt and preferred equity investments in new york city that generate attractive yields. see note 5, "debt and preferred equity investments," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. knowledge of our markets and our leasing and asset management expertise provide underwriting capabilities that enable a highly educated assessment of risk and return. the benefits of this investment program, which has a carefully managed aggregate size, net of anticipated payoffs, generally not to exceed 10% of our total enterprise value, include the following: our typical investments provide high current returns at conservative exposure levels and, in certain cases, the potential for future capital gains. because we are the largest commercial property owner in manhattan, our expertise and operating capabilities provide both insight and operating skills that mitigate risk. in certain instances, these investments serve as a potential source of real estate acquisitions for us when a borrower seeks an efficient off-market transaction. ownership knows that we are fully familiar with the asset through our existing investment, and that we can close more efficiently and quickly than others. property owners may also provide us the opportunity to consider off-market transactions involving other properties they own because we have previously provided debt or preferred equity financing to them. these investments are concentrated in manhattan, which helps us gain market insight, awareness of upcoming investment opportunities and foster key relationships that may provide access to future investment opportunities. capital resources our objective is to maintain multiple sources of corporate and property level capital to obtain the most appropriate and lowest cost of capital. this objective is supported by: property operations that generally provide stable and growing cash flows through market cycles due to favorable supply/demand metrics in manhattan, long average lease terms, high credit quality tenants and superior leasing, operating and asset management skills; concentration of our activities in a manhattan market that is consistently attractive to property investors and lenders through market cycles relative to other markets; maintaining strong corporate liquidity and careful management of future debt maturities; and maintaining access to corporate capital markets through balanced financing and investment activities that result in strong balance sheet and cash flow metrics. manhattan office market overview manhattan is by far the largest office market in the united states containing more rentable square feet than the next five largest central business district office markets combined. the properties in our portfolio are concentrated in some of manhattan's most prominent midtown locations. according to cushman and wakefield research services as of december 31, 2016, manhattan has a total office inventory of approximately 396.9 million square feet, including approximately 242.3 million square feet in midtown. cushman and wakefield research services estimates that in midtown manhattan, approximately 2.6 million square feet of new construction will become available between 2017 and 2018, approximately 38.3% of which is pre-leased. this increase is partially offset by approximately 1.1 million square feet that is projected to be converted from office use to an alternative use. this will add only approximately 1.0% to manhattan's total inventory gross of conversions and only approximately 0.6% net of conversions over the next two years. while the addition of new supply to the manhattan office inventory is nominal relative to the size of the overall market, we view any additional supply as a positive to the manhattan office market given the older vintage of the majority of manhattan's office inventory and the desire of certain tenants to occupy new, high quality, efficient office space, which often isn't available in older vintage properties. in addition, manhattan's office inventory has only grown by one million square feet over the last 25-30 years. general terms of leases in the manhattan markets leases entered into for space in manhattan typically contain terms that may not be contained in leases in other u.s. office markets. the initial term of leases entered into for space in manhattan is generally seven to fifteen years. tenants leasing space in excess of 10,000 square feet for an initial term of 10 years or longer often will negotiate an option to extend the term of the lease for one or two renewal periods, typically for a term of five years each. the base rent during the initial term often will provide for agreed-upon periodic increases over the term of the lease. base rent for renewal terms is most often based upon the then fair 7 table of contents market rental value of the premises as of the commencement date of the applicable renewal term (generally determined by binding arbitration in the event the landlord and the tenant are unable to mutually agree upon the fair market value), though base rent for a renewal period may be set at 95% of the then fair market rent. very infrequently, leases may contain termination options whereby a tenant can terminate the lease obligation before the lease expiration date upon payment of a penalty together with repayment of the unamortized portion of the landlord's transaction costs (e.g., brokerage commissions, free rent periods, tenant improvement allowances, etc.). in addition to base rent, a tenant will generally also pay its pro rata share of increases in real estate taxes and operating expenses for the building over a base year, which is typically the year during which the term of the lease commences, based upon the tenant's proportionate occupancy of the building. in some smaller leases (generally less than 10,000 square feet), in lieu of paying additional rent based upon increases in building operating expenses, base rent will be increased each year during the lease term by a set percentage on a compounding basis (though the tenant will still pay its pro rata share of increases in real estate taxes over a base year). tenants typically receive a free rent period following commencement of the lease term, which in some cases may coincide with the tenant's construction period. the landlord most often supplies electricity either on a sub-metered basis at the landlord's cost plus a fixed percentage or a rent inclusion basis (i.e., a fixed fee is added to the base rent for electricity, which amount may increase based upon increases in electricity rates or increases in electrical usage by the tenant). base building services, other than electricity, such as heat, air conditioning, freight elevator service during business hours and base building cleaning typically are provided at no additional cost, but are included in the building's operating expenses. the tenant will typically pay additional rent only for services which exceed base building services or for services which are provided other than during normal business hours. in a typical lease for a new tenant renting in excess of 10,000 square feet, the landlord will deliver the premises with existing improvements demolished. in such instances, the landlord will typically provide a tenant improvement allowance, which is a fixed sum that the landlord makes available to the tenant to reimburse the tenant for all or a portion of the tenant's initial construction of its premises. such sum typically is payable as work progresses, upon submission by the tenant of invoices for the cost of construction and lien waivers. however, in certain leases (most often for relatively small amounts of space), the landlord will construct the premises for the tenant at a cost to the landlord not to exceed an agreed upon amount with the tenant paying any amount in excess of the agreed upon amount. in addition, landlords may rent space to a tenant that is "pre-built" (i.e., space that was constructed by the landlord in advance of lease signing and is ready to for the tenant to move in with the tenant selecting paint and carpet colors). occupancy the following table sets forth the weighted average occupancy rates at our office properties based on space leased as of december 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 : percent occupied as of december 31, property 2016 2015 2014 manhattan properties 94.9 % 92.8 % 95.2 % suburban properties 82.6 % 79.5 % 80.7 % same-store properties (1) 93.7 % 93.5 % 91.6 % unconsolidated joint venture properties 91.8 % 82.8 % 92.4 % portfolio 92.8 % 90.5 % 92.4 % ____________________________________________________________________ (1) same-store properties for 2016 represents 46 of our 49 consolidated office buildings owned by us at january 1, 2015 and still owned by us in the same manner at december 31, 2016 . rent growth we are constantly evaluating the conditions of the markets in which we operate in order to assess the potential rent growth embedded in our portfolio. we estimated that rents in place at december 31, 2016 for all leases expiring in future periods, excluding triple net leases, in our manhattan and suburban consolidated operating properties were 10.2% and 6.0% , respectively, below management's estimates of current market asking rents. taking rents are typically lower than asking rents and may vary from building to building. we estimated that rents in place at december 31, 2016 for all leases expiring in future periods, excluding triple net leases, in our manhattan and suburban operating properties owned through unconsolidated joint ventures were 11.7% and 1.4% , respectively, below management's estimates of current market asking rents. as of december 31, 2016 , 41.6% and 52.8% of all leases in-place in our manhattan and suburban consolidated operating properties, respectively, were scheduled to expire during the next five years. as of december 31, 2016 , 21.6% and 53.8% of all leases in-place in our manhattan and suburban 8 table of contents operating properties owned through unconsolidated joint ventures, respectively, were also scheduled to expire during the next five years. there can be no assurances that our estimates of current market rents are accurate, that market rents currently prevailing will not erode in the future or that we will realize any rent growth. however, we believe that rents, which in the current portfolio are below market, provide a potential for long-term internal growth. industry segments the company is a reit that acquires, owns, repositions, manages and leases commercial office, retail and multifamily properties in the new york metropolitan area and has two reportable segments: real estate and debt and preferred equity investments. our industry segments are discussed in note 21, "segment information," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. we evaluate real estate performance and allocate resources based on earnings contribution to income from continuing operations. at december 31, 2016 , our real estate portfolio was primarily located in one geographical market, the new york metropolitan area. the primary sources of revenue are generated from tenant rents and escalations and reimbursement revenue. real estate property operating expenses consist primarily of security, maintenance, utility costs, real estate taxes and, at certain properties, ground rent expense. as of december 31, 2016 , two tenants in our office portfolio contributed 8.1% , and 6.7% of our office portfolio annualized cash rent. no other tenant contributed more than 5.0% of our office portfolio annualized cash rent. office portfolio annualized cash rent includes our consolidated annualized cash rent and our share of joint venture annualized cash rent. one property, which was sold in june 2016, contributed 12.3% of our consolidated total revenue for 2016. no other property contributed in excess of 10.0% of our consolidated total revenue for 2016 . at december 31, 2016 , we held debt and preferred equity investments with a book value of $2.0 billion , including $0.3 billion of debt and preferred equity investments and other financing receivables that are included in balance sheet line items other than the debt and preferred equity investments line item. at december 31, 2016 , the assets underlying our debt and preferred equity investments were located in the new york metropolitan area. the primary sources of revenue are generated from interest and fee income. employees at december 31, 2016 , we employed 1,075 employees, 210 of whom were managers and professionals, 767 of whom were hourly-paid employees involved in building operations and 98 of whom were clerical, data processing and other administrative employees. there are currently six collective bargaining agreements which cover the workforce that services substantially all of our properties. highlights from 2016 our significant achievements from 2016 included: corporate broke ground for the development of the 1,401 foot tall, 1.7 million square feet one vanderbilt office tower directly west of grand central terminal. expanded the number of independent directors from five to six by naming lauren dillard as an independent director. leasing signed 169 manhattan office leases covering approximately 3.2 million square feet. the mark-to-market on signed manhattan office leases was 27.6% higher in 2016 than the previously fully escalated rents on the same spaces. signed 86 suburban office leases covering approximately 0.6 million square feet. the mark-to-market on signed suburban office leases was 6.1% higher in 2016 than the previously fully escalated rents on the same spaces. signed a new lease with nike, inc. for 69,214 square feet at 650 fifth avenue for 15 years. signed a lease renewal with penguin random house at 1745 broadway for 603,650 square feet, bringing the remaining lease term to 16.8 years. signed a leasehold condominium conveyance with visiting nurse service of new york at 220 east 42nd street for 308,115 square feet for 30.5 years. acquisitions closed on the acquisition of a 20 percent interest in the newly completed, 1,176 unit "sky" residential tower, located at 605 west 42nd street, at a previously negotiated purchase option valuation. closed on the off-market acquisition of 183 broadway for $28.5 million. 9 table of contents dispositions sourced joint venture partners, national pension service of korea ("nps") and hines interest, lp ("hines"), which acquired a 27.6% and 1.4% interest, respectively, in one vanderbilt in january, 2017 and committed aggregate equity to the project of no less than $525 million. closed on the sale of 388 greenwich street for $2.0 billion, net of any unfunded tenant concession. closed on the sale of a 40% interest in eleven madison avenue for a total gross valuation of $2.6 billion, inclusive of the costs associated with lease stipulated improvements to the property. together with our joint venture partner, closed on the sale of the pace university dormitory tower at 33 beekman for $196.0 million. closed on the sale of a 49% interest in 400 east 57th street for a gross asset valuation of $170.0 million. together with our joint venture partner, closed on the sale of 7 renaissance square for a total gross asset valuation of $20.7 million closed on the sale of 500 west putnam avenue in greenwich, connecticut, for a gross asset valuation of $41.0 million. debt and preferred equity investments originated and retained, or acquired, $1,015 million in debt and preferred equity investments, inclusive of advances under future funding obligations, discount and fee amortization, and paid-in-kind interest, net of premium amortization, and recorded $1,044 million of proceeds from sales, repayments and participations. finance standard &amp; poor's ratings services upgraded the corporate credit rating of the company to investment grade. fitch ratings upgraded the rating outlook for the company and affirmed the investment grade corporate credit rating. closed on $1.5 billion of construction financing for one vanderbilt avenue. the facility has a term of up to 7 years and bears interest at a floating rate of 3.50% over libor, with the ability to reduce the spread to as low as 3.00% upon achieving certain pre-leasing and completion milestones. closed on an expansion of the term loan portion of the company's unsecured corporate credit facility by $250.0 million, increasing the total facility size to $2.783 billion. closed on the refinancing of the company's $300.0 million debt and preferred equity liquidity facility, which provides for favorable financing of the company's debt and preferred equity portfolio. the new facility has a 2-year term with a 1-year extension option and bears interest ranging from 225 to 400 basis points over libor. depending on the pledged collateral. together with our joint venture partners, closed on a $900.0 million refinancing of 280 park avenue. the new facility has a 3-year term (subject to four 1-year extension options), carries a floating interest rate of libor plus 2.00% and replaces the previous $721.0 million of indebtedness on the property that was set to mature in june, 2016. together with our joint venture partners, closed on a $177.0 million 10-year refinancing of 800 third avenue, which replaces the previous $20.9 million mortgage that was set to mature in august, 2017. the new mortgage loan bears interest at a fixed rate of 3.17%, subject to up to a 20 basis point increase under certain conditions. closed on the refinancing of 1-7 landmark square in stamford, connecticut. the $100.0 million financing has a 10-year term, carries a fixed effective interest rate of 4.91% and replaces the previous $77.9 million of indebtedness on the property. together with our joint venture partners, closed on a $100.0 million recapitalization of jericho plaza, which bears interest at a floating rate of 4.15% over libor. together with our joint venture partner, closed on a $97.0 million refinancing of 650 fifth avenue, which replaces the previous $65.0 million mortgage and bears interest at a floating rate of 3.75% over libor. obtained floating rate construction financing of $44.0 million for the retail development at 719 seventh avenue, which bears interest at a floating rate of 3.05% over libor, with the ability to reduce the spread to 2.55% upon achieving certain hurdles. together with our joint venture partner, closed on the refinancing of 400 east 58th street. the $40.0 million financing has a 10-year term, carries a fixed interest rate of 3.00%, and replaces the previous $28.5 million of indebtedness on the property. 10 table of contents item 1a. risk factors declines in the demand for office space in new york city, and in particular midtown manhattan, as well as our suburban markets, including westchester county, connecticut, new jersey and long island, could adversely affect the value of our real estate portfolio and our results of operations and, consequently, our ability to service current debt and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. the majority of our property holdings are comprised of commercial office properties located in midtown manhattan. our property holdings also include a number of retail properties and multifamily residential properties. as a result, our business is dependent on the condition of the new york city economy in general and the market for office space in midtown manhattan in particular. future weakness and uncertainty in the new york city economy could materially reduce the value of our real estate portfolio and our rental revenues, and thus adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service current debt and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. similarly, future weakness and uncertainty in our suburban markets could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service current debt and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. we believe that job creation in the financial and professional services industries in new york city impacts our overall financial performance. both new leasing activity and overall asking rents could be negatively impacted by declining rates of job creation in the current or future periods. we may be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases expire. if tenants decide not to renew their leases upon expiration, we may not be able to relet the space. even if tenants do renew or we can relet the space, the terms of a renewal or new lease, taking into account among other things, the cost of improvements to the property and leasing commissions, may be less favorable than the terms in the expired leases. as of december 31, 2016 , approximately 8.3 million and approximately 1.6 million square feet, representing approximately 43.5% and approximately 23.7% of the rentable square feet, are scheduled to expire by december 31, 2021 at our consolidated properties and unconsolidated joint venture properties, respectively, and as of december 31, 2016 , these leases had annualized escalated rent totaling $496.4 million and $110.0 million , respectively. we also have leases with termination options beyond 2021 . in addition, changes in space utilization by tenants may impact our ability to renew or relet space without the need to incur substantial costs in renovating or redesigning the internal configuration of the relevant property. if we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet the space at similar rates or if we incur substantial costs in renewing or reletting the space, our cash flow and ability to service debt obligations and pay dividends and distributions to security holders could be adversely affected. we face significant competition for tenants. the leasing of real estate is highly competitive. the principal competitive factors are rent, location, services provided and the nature and condition of the property to be leased. we directly compete with all owners, developers and operators of similar space in the areas in which our properties are located. our commercial office properties are concentrated in highly developed areas of midtown manhattan and certain suburban central business districts, or cbds. manhattan is the largest office market in the united states. the number of competitive office properties in manhattan and cbds in which our suburban properties are located, which may be newer or better located than our properties, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease office space at our properties, and on the effective rents we are able to charge. the expiration of long term leases or operating sublease interests where we do not own a fee interest in the land could adversely affect our results of operations. our interests in 420 lexington avenue, 461 fifth avenue, 711 third avenue, 625 madison avenue, 1185 avenue of the americas, 1080 amsterdam avenue, and 30 east 40th street, all in manhattan, and 1055 washington avenue, stamford, connecticut, are entirely or partially comprised of either long-term leasehold or operating sublease interests in the land and the improvements, rather than by ownership of fee interest in the land. we have the ability to acquire the fee position at 461 fifth avenue for a fixed price on a specific date. the average remaining term of these long-term leases as of december 31, 2016 , including our unilateral extension rights on each of the properties, is 51 years. pursuant to the leasehold arrangements, we, as tenant under the operating sublease, perform the functions traditionally performed by landlords with respect to our subtenants. we are responsible for not only collecting rent from our subtenants, but also maintaining the property and paying expenses relating to the property. our share of annualized cash rents of the commercial office properties held through long-term leases or operating sublease interests at december 31, 2016 totaled $289.0 million , or 21.8% , of our share of total portfolio annualized cash rent. unless we purchase a fee interest in the underlying land or extend the terms of these leases prior to expiration, we will lose our right to operate these properties upon expiration of the leases, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. rent payments under leasehold or operating sublease interests are adjusted, within the parameters of the contractual arrangements, at certain intervals. rent adjustments may result in higher rents that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. 11 table of contents adverse economic and geopolitical conditions in general and the commercial office markets in the new york metropolitan area in particular could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and, consequently, our ability to service debt obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. our business may be affected by volatility in the financial and credit markets and other market, economic, or political challenges experienced by the u.s. economy or the real estate industry as a whole, including changes in law and policy accompanying the new administration and uncertainty in connection with any such changes. future periods of economic weakness could result in reduced access to credit and/or wider credit spreads. economic or political uncertainty, including concern about growth and the stability of the markets generally, may lead many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide funding to borrowers, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our tenants. our business may also be adversely affected by local economic conditions, as substantially all of our revenues are derived from our properties located in the new york metropolitan area, particularly in new york, new jersey and connecticut. because our portfolio consists primarily of commercial office buildings, located principally in midtown manhattan, as compared to a more diversified real estate portfolio, if economic conditions deteriorate, then our results of operations, financial condition and ability to service current debt and to pay dividends to our stockholders may be adversely affected. specifically, our business may be affected by the following conditions: significant job losses or declining rates of job creation which may decrease demand for our office space, causing market rental rates and property values to be negatively impacted; our ability to borrow on terms and conditions that we find acceptable may be limited, which could reduce our ability to pursue acquisition and development opportunities and refinance existing debt, reducing our returns from both our existing operations and our acquisition and development activities and increasing our future interest expense; and reduced values of our properties, which may limit our ability to dispose of assets at attractive prices or to obtain debt financing secured by our properties and may reduce the availability of unsecured loans. we rely on five large properties for a significant portion of our revenue. five of our properties, 1515 broadway, 1185 avenue of the americas, 11 madison avenue, 420 lexington avenue, and 1 madison avenue accounted for 33.3% of our portfolio annualized cash rent, which includes our share of joint venture annualized cash rent as of december 31, 2016 . our revenue and cash available to service debt obligations and for distribution to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected if any of these properties were materially damaged or destroyed. additionally, our revenue and cash available to service debt obligations and for distribution to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected if tenants at these properties fail to timely make rental payments due to adverse financial conditions or otherwise, default under their leases or file for bankruptcy or become insolvent. our results of operations rely on major tenants and insolvency or bankruptcy of these or other tenants could adversely affect our results of operations. giving effect to leases in effect as of december 31, 2016 for consolidated properties and unconsolidated joint venture properties, as of that date, our five largest tenants, based on annualized cash rent, accounted for 20.4% of our share of portfolio annualized cash rent, with two tenants, credit suisse securities (usa) llc, and viacom international inc. accounting for 8.1% , and 6.7% of our share of portfolio annualized cash rent, respectively. our business and results of operations would be adversely affected if any of our major tenants became insolvent, declared bankruptcy, or otherwise refused to pay rent in a timely fashion or at all. in addition, if business conditions in the industries in which our tenants are concentrated deteriorate, we may experience increases in past due accounts, defaults, lower occupancy and reduced effective rents across tenants in such industries, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. leasing office space to smaller and growth-oriented businesses could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. some of the tenants in our properties are smaller, growth-oriented businesses that may not have the financial strength of larger corporate tenants. smaller companies generally experience a higher rate of failure than larger businesses. growth-oriented firms may also seek other office space as they develop. leasing office space to these companies could create a higher risk of tenant defaults, turnover and bankruptcies, which could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. we may suffer adverse consequences if our revenues decline since our operating costs do not necessarily decline in proportion to our revenue. we earn a significant portion of our income from renting our properties. our operating costs, however, do not necessarily fluctuate in direct proportion to changes in our rental revenue. as a result, our costs will not necessarily decline even if our revenues do. in such event, we may be forced to borrow to cover our costs, we may incur losses or we may not have cash available to service our debt and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. 12 table of contents we face risks associated with property acquisitions. we may acquire interests in properties, individual properties and portfolios of properties, including large portfolios that could significantly increase our size and alter our capital structure. our acquisition activities may be exposed to, and their success may be adversely affected by, the following risks: we may be unable to meet required closing conditions; we may be unable to finance acquisitions and developments of properties on favorable terms or at all; we may be unable to lease our acquired properties on the same terms or to the same level of occupancy as our existing properties; acquired properties may fail to perform as we expected; we may expend funds on, and devote management time to, acquisition opportunities which we do not complete, which may include non-refundable deposits; our estimates of the costs we incur in renovating, improving, developing or redeveloping acquired properties may be inaccurate; we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for acquired properties; and we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions and developments, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and therefore our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may acquire properties subject to both known and unknown liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse to the seller. as a result, if a liability were asserted against us arising from our ownership of those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. unknown liabilities with respect to properties acquired might include: claims by tenants, vendors or other persons arising from dealing with the former owners of the properties; liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties; and liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination. competition for acquisitions may reduce the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and increase the costs of those acquisitions. we may acquire properties when we are presented with attractive opportunities. we may face competition for acquisition opportunities from other investors, particularly those investors who are willing to incur more leverage, and this competition may adversely affect us by subjecting us to the following risks: an inability to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well-capitalized real estate investors, including publicly traded and privately held reits, private real estate funds, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, pension trusts, partnerships and individual investors; and an increase in the purchase price for such acquisition property. if we are unable to successfully acquire additional properties, our ability to grow our business could be adversely affected. in addition, increases in the cost of acquisition opportunities could adversely affect our results of operations. we have commenced construction for our ground-up development project at one vanderbilt avenue. the company continues its significant ground-up development project at one vanderbilt avenue. during 2016, the company obtained a $1.5 billion construction facility for the project and also sourced joint venture partners, nps and hines, which acquired a 27.6% and 1.4% interest, respectively, in the project, respectively, in january 2017 and have committed aggregate equity to the project of no less than $525.0 million . the company and hines will co-develop the building. construction of the project will not be completed for several years. as with any ground-up development project, unforeseen delays and other matters could further delay completion, result in increased costs or otherwise have a material effect on our results of operations. in addition, the extended time frame to complete the project will cause the project to be subject to shifts and trends in the real estate market which may not be consistent with our current business plans for this property. 13 table of contents the company's project at one vanderbilt avenue is located directly above public transit lines and is adjacent to grand central terminal and other historic buildings. damage to infrastructure or adjacent properties as well as the impact to the area due to construction noise, traffic, or debris could lead to reputational damage and legal actions. we are subject to risks that affect the retail environment. approximately 4.8% of our portfolio annualized cash rent is generated by retail properties, principally in manhattan. as a result, we are subject to risks that affect the retail environment generally, including the level of consumer spending, consumer confidence and levels of tourism in manhattan. these factors could adversely affect the financial condition of our retail tenants and the willingness of retailers to lease space in our retail properties, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. the occurrence of a terrorist attack may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to generate cash flow. our operations are primarily concentrated in the new york metropolitan area. in the aftermath of a terrorist attack or other acts of terrorism or war, tenants in the new york metropolitan area may choose to relocate their business to less populated, lower-profile areas of the united states that those tenants believe are not as likely to be targets of future terrorist activity. in addition, economic activity could decline as a result of terrorist attacks or other acts of terrorism or war, or the perceived threat of such acts. each of these impacts could in turn trigger a decrease in the demand for space in the new york metropolitan area, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease our properties on less favorable terms. furthermore, we may also experience increased costs in relation to security equipment and personnel. as a result, the value of our properties and our results of operations could materially decline. potential losses may not be covered by insurance. we maintain all-risk property and rental value coverage (including coverage regarding the perils of flood, earthquake and terrorism, excluding nuclear, biological, chemical, and radiological terrorism ("nbcr")), within three property insurance programs and liability insurance. management believes the policy specifications and insured limits are appropriate given the relative risk of loss, the cost of the coverage, and industry practice. separate property and liability coverage may be purchased on a stand-alone basis for certain assets, such as the development of one vanderbilt. on january 12, 2015, the terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization and extension act of 2007 ("tripra") (formerly the terrorism risk insurance act) was reauthorized until december 31, 2020 pursuant to the terrorism insurance program reauthorization and extension act of 2015. the tripra extends the federal terrorism insurance program that requires insurance companies to offer terrorism coverage and provides for compensation for insured losses resulting from acts of certified terrorism, subject to the current program trigger of $120.0 million , which will increase by $20.0 million per annum, commencing december 31, 2015 (trigger). coinsurance under tripra is 16% , increasing 1% per annum, as of december 31, 2015 (coinsurance). there are no assurances tripra will be further extended. our wholly-owned taxable reit subsidiary, belmont insurance company, or belmont, acts as a captive insurance company and as one of the elements of our overall insurance program. belmont was formed in an effort, among other reasons, to stabilize to some extent the impact of insurance market fluctuations. belmont is licensed by new york state as a direct insurer of terrorism and nbcr terrorism, and a reinsurer with respect to portions of our general liability, environmental liability, flood, professional liability, employment practices liability and d&amp;o coverage. belmont purchases reinsurance for its coinsurance and is backstopped by the federal government for the balance of its terrorism limit for certified acts of terrorism above the trigger. we purchase direct, third party terrorism insurance up to the trigger for certified acts of terrorism. belmont is backstopped by the federal government for certified acts of nbcr terrorism above the trigger and subject to its coinsurance, however does not reinsure its nbcr coinsurance requirement. there is no coverage for a nbcr terrorism act if covered industry losses are below the trigger. as long as we own belmont, we are responsible for its liquidity and capital resources, and the accounts of belmont are part of our consolidated financial statements. if we experience a loss and belmont is required to pay a claim under our insurance policies, we would ultimately record the loss to the extent of belmont's required payment. therefore, certain insurance coverage provided by belmont should not be considered as the equivalent of third-party insurance, but rather as a modified form of self-insurance. our debt instruments, consisting of mortgage loans secured by our properties (which are generally non-recourse to us), mezzanine loans, ground leases, our 2012 credit facility, senior unsecured notes and other corporate obligations, contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance. although we believe that we currently maintain sufficient insurance coverage to satisfy these obligations, there is no assurance that in the future we will be able to procure coverage at a reasonable cost. in such instances, there can be no assurance that the lenders or ground lessors under these instruments will not take the position that a total or partial exclusion from all-risk insurance coverage for losses due to, for example, terrorist acts is a breach of these debt and ground lease instruments allowing the lenders or ground lessors to declare an event of default and accelerate repayment of debt or recapture of ground lease positions. in addition, if lenders require greater coverage that we are unable to obtain at 14 table of contents commercially reasonable rates, we may incur substantially higher insurance premiums or our ability to finance our properties and expand our portfolio may be adversely impacted. furthermore, with respect to certain of our properties, including properties held by joint ventures, or subject to triple net leases, insurance coverage is obtained by a third-party and we do not control the coverage. while we may have agreements with such third parties to maintain adequate coverage and we monitor these policies, such coverage ultimately may not be maintained or adequately cover our risk of loss. we may have less protection than with respect to the properties where we obtain coverage directly. although we consider our insurance coverage to be appropriate, in the event of a major catastrophe, we may not have sufficient coverage to replace certain properties. we face possible risks associated with the natural disasters and the physical effects of climate change. we are subject to risks associated with natural disasters and the physical effects of climate change, which can include storms, hurricanes and flooding, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations and business. to the extent climate change causes changes in weather patterns, our markets could experience increases in storm intensity and rising sea-levels. over time, these conditions could result in declining demand for office space in our buildings or the inability of us to operate the buildings at all. climate change may also have indirect effects on our business by increasing the cost of (or making unavailable) property insurance on terms we find acceptable, increasing the cost of energy at our properties and requiring us to expend funds as we seek to repair and protect our properties against such risks. there can be no assurance that climate change will not have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations or business. sl green depends on dividends and distributions from its direct and indirect subsidiaries. substantially all of our assets are held through subsidiaries of our operating partnership. our operating partnership's cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by its subsidiaries, and in turn, substantially all of sl green's cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by our operating partnership. the creditors of each of our direct and indirect subsidiaries are entitled to payment of that subsidiary's obligations to them, when due and payable, before distributions may be made by that subsidiary to its equity holders. therefore, our operating partnership's ability to make distributions to holders of its partnership units depends on its subsidiaries' ability first to satisfy their obligations to their creditors and then to make distributions to our operating partnership. likewise, sl green's ability to pay dividends to holders of common stock and preferred stock depends on our operating partnership's ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions payable to holders of preferred units and then to make distributions to sl green. furthermore, the holders of preferred partnership units of our operating partnership are entitled to receive preferred distributions before payment of distributions to holders of common units of our operating partnership, including sl green. thus, sl green's ability to pay cash dividends to its shareholders and satisfy its debt obligations depends on our operating partnership's ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions to holders of its preferred partnership units and then to holders of its common units, including sl green. in addition, sl green's participation in any distribution of the assets of any of its direct or indirect subsidiaries upon the liquidation, reorganization or insolvency, is only after the claims of the creditors, including trade creditors and preferred security holders, are satisfied. debt financing, financial covenants, degree of leverage, and increases in interest rates could adversely affect our economic performance. scheduled debt payments could adversely affect our results of operations. cash flow could be insufficient to pay dividends and meet the payments of principal and interest required under our current mortgages, our 2012 credit facility, our senior unsecured notes, our debentures and indebtedness outstanding at our joint venture properties. the total principal amount of our outstanding consolidated indebtedness was $6.6 billion as of december 31, 2016 , consisting of a $1.2 billion unsecured bank term loan, $1.1 billion under our senior unsecured notes, $0.1 billion of junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures, $4.1 billion of non-recourse mortgages and loans payable on certain of our properties and debt and preferred equity investments, and $0.1 billion letters of credit. in addition, we could increase the amount of our outstanding consolidated indebtedness in the future, in part by borrowing under the revolving credit facility portion of our 2012 credit facility. the $1.6 billion revolving credit facility portion of our 2012 credit facility currently matures in march 2020, which includes two six-month extension options. in the first quarter of 2015, we modified and extended the revolving credit facility from march 2018 to march 2020 and reduced the margin by 25 basis points. this modification took effect in the first quarter of 2015. as of december 31, 2016 , the total principal amount of non-recourse indebtedness outstanding at the joint venture properties was $6.5 billion , of which our proportionate share was $2.7 billion . as of december 31, 2016 , we had no recourse indebtedness outstanding at our unconsolidated joint venture properties. 15 table of contents if we are unable to make payments under our 2012 credit facility, all amounts due and owing at such time shall accrue interest at a rate equal to 2% higher than the rate at which each draw was made. if we are unable to make payments under our senior unsecured notes, the principal and unpaid interest will become immediately payable. if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property, resulting in loss of income and asset value. foreclosure on mortgaged properties or an inability to make payments under our 2012 credit facility or our senior unsecured notes could trigger defaults under the terms of our other financings, making such financings at risk of being declared immediately payable, and would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to refinance existing indebtedness, which may require substantial principal payments at maturity. $267.7 million of consolidated mortgage debt and $312.2 million of unconsolidated joint venture debt is scheduled to mature in 2017 after giving effect to repayments and refinancing of consolidated and joint venture debt between december 31, 2016 and february 17, 2017 as discussed in the "financial statements and supplementary data" section. at the present time, we intend to repay, refinance, or exercise extension options on the debt associated with our properties on or prior to their respective maturity dates. at the time of refinancing, prevailing interest rates or other factors, such as the possible reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans, may result in higher interest rates. increased interest expense on the extended or refinanced debt would adversely affect cash flow and our ability to service debt obligations and pay dividends and distributions to security holders. if any principal payments due at maturity cannot be repaid, refinanced or extended, our cash flow will not be sufficient to repay maturing or accelerated debt. financial covenants could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. the mortgages and mezzanine loans on our properties generally contain customary negative covenants that limit our ability to further mortgage the properties, to enter into material leases without lender consent or materially modify existing leases, among other things. in addition, our 2012 credit facility and senior unsecured notes contain restrictions and requirements on our method of operations. our 2012 credit facility and our unsecured notes also require us to maintain designated ratios, including but not limited to, total debt-to-assets, debt service coverage and unencumbered assets-to-unsecured debt. these restrictions could adversely affect operations (including reducing our flexibility and our ability to incur additional debt), our ability to pay debt obligations and our ability to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. rising interest rates could adversely affect our cash flow. advances under our 2012 credit facility and certain property-level mortgage debt bear interest at a variable rate. our consolidated variable rate borrowings totaled $1.1 billion at december 31, 2016 . in addition, we could increase the amount of our outstanding variable rate debt in the future, in part by borrowing additional amounts under our 2012 credit facility, which consisted of a $1.6 billion revolving credit facility. borrowings under our revolving credit facility and term loan bore interest at the 30-day libor, plus spreads of 125 basis points and 140 basis points, respectively, at december 31, 2016 . as of december 31, 2016 , borrowings under our term loan and junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures totaled $1.2 billion and $100.0 million , respectively, and bore weighted average interest at 2.05% and 1.93% , respectively. we may incur indebtedness in the future that also bears interest at a variable rate or may be required to refinance our debt at higher rates. at december 31, 2016 , a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates across each of our variable interest rate instruments would decrease our annual interest costs by $2.4 million and would increase our share of joint venture annual interest costs by $11.6 million . our joint ventures may also incur variable rate debt and face similar risks. accordingly, increases in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial conditions and our ability to continue to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect results of operations. the interest rate hedge instruments we use to manage some of our exposure to interest rate volatility involve risk and counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. in addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes and when existing interest rate hedges terminate, we may incur increased costs in putting in place further interest rate hedges. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. increases in our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our stock price. our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness we may incur. as of december 31, 2016 , assuming the conversion of all outstanding units of the operating partnership into shares of sl green's common stock, our combined debt-to-market capitalization ratio, including our share of joint venture debt of $2.7 billion , was 43.3% . our market capitalization is variable and does not necessarily reflect the fair market value of our assets at all times. we also consider factors other than market capitalization in making decisions regarding the incurrence of indebtedness, such as the purchase price of properties to be acquired with debt financing, the estimated market value of our properties upon refinancing and the ability of particular properties and our business as a whole to generate cash flow to cover expected debt service. any changes that increase our debt-to-market capitalization percentage could be viewed negatively by investors. as a result, our stock price could decrease. 16 table of contents a downgrade in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. our credit rating and the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities and our preferred stock could change based upon, among other things, our results of operations and financial condition. these ratings are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and any rating could be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future if, in its judgment, circumstances warrant such action. moreover, these credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our common stock or any other securities. if any of the credit rating agencies that have rated our securities downgrades or lowers its credit rating, or if any credit rating agency indicates that it has placed any such rating on a watch list for a possible downgrading or lowering, or otherwise indicates that its outlook for that rating is negative, such action could have a material adverse effect on our costs and availability of funding, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, the trading price of our securities and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. debt and preferred equity investments could cause us to incur expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we held first mortgages, mezzanine loans, junior participations and preferred equity interests in 64 investments with an aggregate net book value of $2.0 billion including $0.3 billion of investments recorded in balance sheet line items other than the debt and preferred equity investments line item at december 31, 2016 . some of these instruments may be recourse to their sponsors, while others are limited to the collateral securing the loan. in the event of a default under these obligations, we may have to take possession of the collateral securing these interests. borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against such enforcement and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce their obligations to us. declines in the value of the property may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our investment upon foreclosure or realization even if we make substantial improvements or repairs to the underlying real estate in order to maximize such property's investment potential. in addition, we may invest in mortgage-backed securities and other marketable securities. we maintain and regularly evaluate the need for reserves to protect against potential future losses. our reserves reflect management's judgment of the probability and severity of losses and the value of the underlying collateral. we cannot be certain that our judgment will prove to be correct and that our reserves will be adequate over time to protect against future losses because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific properties, assets, tenants, borrowers, industries in which our tenants and borrowers operate or markets in which our tenants and borrowers or their properties are located. as of december 31, 2016 , we had no recorded reserves for possible credit losses. if our reserves for credit losses prove inadequate, we could suffer losses which would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, the market prices of our securities and our ability to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. joint investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority and reliance upon a co-venturer's financial condition. we co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures, co-tenancies or other structures, and by acquiring non-controlling interests in, or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of, a property, partnership, joint venture, co-tenancy or other entity. therefore, we may not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding such property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. investments in partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities may involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that our partners, co-tenants or co-venturers might become bankrupt or otherwise fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. additionally, our partners or co-venturers might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals which are competitive or inconsistent with our business interests or goals. these investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions such as a sale, because neither we, nor the partner, co-tenant or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. in addition, we may in specific circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners, co-tenants or co-venturers. as of december 31, 2016 , our unconsolidated joint ventures owned 41 properties and we had an aggregate cost basis in these joint ventures totaling $1.9 billion . as of december 31, 2016 , our share of unconsolidated joint venture debt, which is non-recourse to us, totaled $2.7 billion . none of the joint venture debt is recourse to us as of december 31, 2016 . certain of our joint venture agreements contain terms in favor of our partners that could have an adverse effect on the value of our investments in the joint ventures. each of our joint venture agreements has been individually negotiated with our partner in the joint venture and, in some cases, we have agreed to terms that are more favorable to our partner in the joint venture than to us. for example, our partner may be entitled to a specified portion of the profits of the joint venture before we are entitled to any portion of such profits. we may also enter into similar arrangements in the future. these rights may permit our partner in a particular joint venture to obtain a greater benefit from the value or profits of the joint venture than us, which could have an adverse effect on the value of our investment in the joint venture and on our financial condition and results of operations. 17 table of contents we may incur costs to comply with environmental and health and safety laws. we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental and health and safety laws which change from time to time. these laws regulate, among other things, air and water quality, our use, storage, disposal and management of hazardous substances and wastes and can impose liability on current and former property owners or operators for the clean-up of certain hazardous substances released on a property and any associated damage to natural resources without regard to whether the release was in compliance with law or whether it was caused by, or known to, the property owner or operator. the presence of hazardous substances on our properties may adversely affect occupancy and our ability to develop or sell or borrow against those properties. in addition to potential liability for clean-up costs, private plaintiffs may bring claims for personal injury, property damage or for similar reasons. various laws also impose liability for the clean-up of contamination at any facility (e.g., a landfill) to which we have sent hazardous substances for treatment or disposal, without regard to whether the materials were transported, treated and disposed in accordance with law. being held responsible for such a clean-up could result in significant cost to us and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may incur significant costs complying with the americans with disabilities act and other regulatory and legal requirements. our properties may be subject to risks relating to current or future laws including laws benefiting disabled persons, and other state or local zoning, construction or other regulations. these laws may require significant property modifications in the future, which could result in fines being levied against us in the future. the occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse impact on our cash flows and ability to pay dividends to stockholders. under the americans with disabilities act, or ada, all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. additional federal, state and local laws also may require modifications to our properties, or restrict our ability to renovate our properties. we have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance with laws and regulations to which we are subject. if one or more of our properties is not in compliance with the material provisions of the ada or other legislation, then we may be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance with the ada or state or local laws. we cannot predict the ultimate amount of the cost of compliance with ada or other legislation. if we incur substantial costs to comply with the ada and any other legislation, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and/or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders could be adversely affected. our charter documents, debt instruments and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us, which could discourage takeover attempts and prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium over the market price of our stock. provisions of sl green's charter and bylaws could inhibit changes in control. a change of control of our company could benefit stockholders by providing them with a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our stock. however, provisions contained in sl green's charter and bylaws may delay or prevent a change in control of our company. these provisions, discussed more fully below, are: staggered board of directors; ownership limitations; and the board of directors' ability to issue additional common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval. sl green's board of directors is staggered into three separate classes. sl green's board of directors is divided into three classes, with directors in each such class serving staggered three year terms. the terms of the class i, class ii and class iii directors expire in 2017, 2018 and 2019, respectively. our staggered board may deter a change in control because of the increased time period necessary for a third-party to acquire control of the board. we have a stock ownership limit. to remain qualified as a reit for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of any taxable year. for this purpose, stock may be "owned" directly, as well as indirectly under certain constructive ownership rules, including, for example, rules that attribute stock held by one shareholder to another shareholder. in part to avoid violating this rule regarding stock ownership limitations and maintain our reit qualification, sl green's charter prohibits ownership by any single stockholder of more than 9.0% in value or number of shares of its common stock. limitations on the ownership of preferred stock may also be imposed by us. sl green's board of directors has the discretion to raise or waive this limitation on ownership for any stockholder if deemed to be in our best interest. sl green's board of directors has granted such waivers from time to time. to obtain a waiver, a stockholder must present the board and our tax counsel with evidence that ownership in excess of this limit will not affect our present or future reit status. 18 table of contents absent any exemption or waiver, stock acquired or held in excess of the limit on ownership will be transferred to a trust for the exclusive benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary, and the stockholder's rights to distributions and to vote would terminate. the stockholder would be entitled to receive, from the proceeds of any subsequent sale of the shares transferred to the charitable trust, the lesser of: the price paid for the stock or, if the owner did not pay for the stock, the market price of the stock on the date of the event causing the stock to be transferred to the charitable trust; and the amount realized from the sale. this limitation on ownership of stock could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. debt may not be assumable. we had $6.6 billion in consolidated debt as of december 31, 2016 . certain of this debt is not assumable and may be subject to significant prepayment penalties. these limitations could deter a change in control of our company. maryland takeover statutes may prevent a change of control of our company, which could depress our stock price. under the maryland general corporation law, or the mgcl, "business combinations" between a maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. these business combinations include a merger, consolidation, stock exchange or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. an interested stockholder is defined as: any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation's outstanding voting stock; or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock of the corporation. a person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if the board of directors approves in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. after the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by the board of directors of the corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least: 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation, voting together as a single group; and two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder. the business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer, including potential acquisitions that might involve a premium price for sl green's common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. in addition, maryland law provides that holders of "control shares" of a maryland corporation acquired in a "control share acquisition" will not have voting rights with respect to the control shares except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares of stock owned by the acquiror, by officers of the corporation or by directors who are employees of the corporation, under the maryland control share acquisition act. "control shares" means voting shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock owned by the acquiror or in respect of which the acquiror is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of voting power: (i) one-tenth or more but less than one-third; (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority; or (iii) a majority or more of all voting power. a "control share acquisition" means the acquisition of ownership of, or the power to direct the exercise of voting power with respect to, issued and outstanding control shares, subject to certain exceptions. we have opted out of these provisions of the mgcl, with respect to business combinations and control share acquisitions, by resolution of sl green's board of directors and a provision in sl green's bylaws, respectively. however, in the future, sl green's board of directors may reverse its decision by resolution and elect to opt in to the mgcl's business combination provisions, or amend sl green's bylaws and elect to opt in to the mgcl's control share provisions. additionally, the mgcl permits sl green's board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is provided in sl green's charter or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses, some of which have not been implemented by sl green's board of directors. such takeover defenses, if implemented, may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making us an acquisition proposal or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with an opportunity to realize a premium over the then-current market price. 19 table of contents future issuances of common stock, preferred stock and convertible debt could dilute existing stockholders' interests. sl green's charter authorizes its board of directors to issue additional shares of common stock, preferred stock and convertible equity or debt without stockholder approval and without the requirement to offer rights of pre-emption to existing stockholders. any such issuance could dilute our existing stockholders' interests. also, any future series of preferred stock may have voting provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company. changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of sl green's common stock. as with other publicly traded equity securities, the value of sl green's common stock depends on various market conditions, which may change from time to time. in addition to the current economic environment and future volatility in the securities and credit markets, the following market conditions may affect the value of sl green's common stock: the general reputation of reits and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies; our financial performance; and general stock and bond market conditions. the market value of sl green's common stock is based on a number of factors including, but not limited to, the market's perception of the current and future value of our assets, our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash dividends. consequently, sl green's common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share of common stock. the trading price of sl green's common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. between january 1, 2016 and december 31, 2016 , the closing sale price of sl green's common stock on the new york stock exchange, or the nyse, ranged from $80.54 to $119.20 per share. on february 17, 2017 , the closing sale price of sl green's common stock on the nyse was $111.28 . our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as those described elsewhere in this "risk factors" section. additionally, the amount of our leverage may hinder the demand for our common stock, which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. market interest rates may have an effect on the value of sl green's common stock. if market interest rates go up, prospective purchasers of shares of sl green's common stock may expect a higher distribution rate on sl green's common stock. however, higher market interest rates may not result in more funds for us to distribute and could increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of sl green's common stock to decrease. limitations on our ability to sell or reduce the indebtedness on specific mortgaged properties could adversely affect the value of sl green's common stock. in connection with past and future acquisitions of interests in properties, we have or may agree to restrictions on our ability to sell or refinance the acquired properties for certain periods. these limitations could result in us holding properties which we would otherwise sell, or prevent us from paying down or refinancing existing indebtedness, any of which may have adverse consequences on our business and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we face potential conflicts of interest. there are potential conflicts of interest between us and stephen l. green. there is a potential conflict of interest relating to the disposition of certain property contributed to us by stephen l. green, and affiliated entities in our initial public offering. mr. green serves as the chairman of sl green's board of directors and is an executive officer. if we sell a property in a transaction in which a taxable gain is recognized, for tax purposes the built-in gain would be allocated solely to him and not to us. as a result, mr. green has a conflict of interest if the sale of a property he contributed is in our best interest but not his. in addition, mr. green's tax basis includes his share of debt, including mortgage indebtedness, owed by the operating partnership. if the operating partnership were to retire such debt, then he would experience a decrease in his share of liabilities, which, for tax purposes, would be treated as a distribution of cash to him. to the extent the deemed distribution of cash exceeded his tax basis, he would recognize gain. as a result, mr. green has a conflict of interest if the refinancing of indebtedness is in our best interest but not his. members of management may have a conflict of interest over whether to enforce terms of agreements with entities which mr. green, directly or indirectly, has an affiliation. 20 table of contents alliance building services, or alliance, and its affiliates are partially owned by gary green, a son of stephen l. green, the chairman of sl green's board of directors, and provide services to certain properties owned by us. alliance's affiliates include first quality maintenance, l.p., or first quality, classic security llc, bright star couriers llc and onyx restoration works, and provide cleaning, extermination, security, messenger, and restoration services, respectively. in addition, first quality has the non-exclusive opportunity to provide cleaning and related services to individual tenants at our properties on a basis separately negotiated with any tenant seeking such additional services. the service corporation has entered into an arrangement with alliance whereby it will receive a profit participation above a certain threshold for services provided by alliance to certain tenants at certain buildings above the base services specified in their lease agreements. our company and our tenants accounted for 24.8% of alliance's 2016 estimated total revenue, based on information provided to us by alliance. while we believe that the contracts pursuant to which these services are provided were the result of arm's length negotiations, there can be no assurance that the terms of such agreements, or dealings between the parties during the performance of such agreements, will be as favorable to us as those which could be obtained from unaffiliated third parties providing comparable services under similar circumstances. sl green's failure to qualify as a reit would be costly and would have a significant effect on the value of our securities. we believe we have operated in a manner for sl green to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes and intend to continue to so operate. many of the reit compliance requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. the determination that sl green is a reit requires an analysis of factual matters and circumstances. these matters, some of which are not totally within our control, can affect sl green's qualification as a reit. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income must come from designated sources that are listed in the reit tax laws. we are also required to distribute to stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income excluding capital gains. the fact that we hold our assets through the operating partnership and its subsidiaries further complicates the application of the reit requirements. even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our reit status. furthermore, congress and the internal revenue service, or the irs, might make changes to the tax laws and regulations that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified as a reit. if sl green fails to qualify as a reit, the funds available for distribution to our stockholders would be substantially reduced as we would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to our stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates and we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes. also, unless the irs grants us relief under specific statutory provisions, sl green would remain disqualified as a reit for four years following the year in which sl green first failed to qualify. if sl green failed to qualify as a reit, sl green would have to pay significant income taxes and would therefore have less money available for investments, to service debt obligations or to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. this would have a significant adverse effect on the value of our securities. in addition, the reit tax laws would no longer obligate us to make any distributions to stockholders. as a result of all these factors, if sl green fails to qualify as a reit, this could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital. we may be subject to adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes the rules dealing with u.s. federal income taxation are continually under review by congress, the irs, and the u.s. department of the treasury. any such changes could have an adverse effect on an investment in our shares or on the market value or the resale potential of our assets. we may in the future pay taxable dividends on sl green's common stock in common stock and cash. in order to qualify as a reit, we are required to annually distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income, excluding net capital gain. in order to avoid taxation of our income, we are required to annually distribute to our stockholders all of our taxable income, including net capital gain. in order to satisfy these requirements, we may make distributions that are payable partly in cash and partly in shares of our common stock. if we pay such a dividend, taxable stockholders would be required to include the entire amount of the dividend, including the portion paid with shares of common stock, as income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, and may be required to pay income taxes with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash dividends received. we are dependent on external sources of capital. we need a substantial amount of capital to operate and grow our business. this need is exacerbated by the distribution requirements imposed on us for sl green to qualify as a reit. we therefore rely on third-party sources of capital, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. in addition, we anticipate raising money in the public equity and debt markets with some regularity and our ability to do so will depend upon the general conditions prevailing in these markets. at any time, conditions may exist which effectively prevent us, or reits in general, from accessing 21 table of contents these markets. moreover, additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of our stockholders' interests, and additional debt financing may substantially increase our leverage. loss of our key personnel could harm our operations and our stock price. we are dependent on the efforts of marc holliday, our chief executive officer, and andrew w. mathias, our president. these officers have employment agreements which expire in january 2019 and december 2017, respectively. a loss of the services of either of these individuals could adversely affect our operations and could be negatively perceived by the market resulting in a decrease in our stock price. our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures or cyber security attacks. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to a number of risks including energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication failures and cyber attacks and intrusions, such as computer viruses, malware, attachments to e-mails, intrusion and unauthorized access, including from persons inside our organization or from persons outside our organization with access to our systems. the risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attacks and intrusions, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and instructions from around the world have increased. our systems are critical to the operation of our business and any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. we may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. although we make efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our systems and have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. any compromise of our security could also result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, loss or misuse of the information (which may be confidential, proprietary and/or commercially sensitive in nature) and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. our property taxes could increase due to reassessment or property tax rate changes. we are required to pay real property taxes in respect of our properties and such taxes may increase as our properties are reassessed by taxing authorities or as property tax rates change. an increase in the assessed value of our properties or our property tax rates could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our security holders. compliance with changing or new regulations applicable to corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses, affect our operations. changing or new laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including sec regulations and nyse rules, can create uncertainty for public companies. these changed or new laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity. as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. we are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. if our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. in particular, our continued efforts to comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors' audit of that assessment have required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. further, our directors, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. as a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified directors and executive officers, which could harm our business. forward-looking statements may prove inaccurate. see item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations forward-looking information," for additional disclosure regarding forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 67 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk see item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market rate risk" for additional information regarding our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. the table below presents the principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of our debt obligations and debt and preferred equity investments and the weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates, including as-of-right extension options, as of december 31, 2016 (in thousands): long-term debt debt and preferred equity investments (1) fixed rate average interest rate variable rate average interest rate amount weighted yield 2017 $ 1,326,860 4.63 % $ 2.87 % $ 603,152 9.57 % 2018 320,371 4.47 % 283,555 3.30 % 482,446 9.39 2019 858,916 4.65 % 383,000 3.63 % 305,498 9.10 2020 695,231 4.52 % 275,000 4.03 % 159,593 8.72 2021 67,031 4.37 % 64,030 4.48 % 43,648 7.94 thereafter 2,194,717 4.26 % 100,000 4.43 % 46,075 9.10 total $ 5,463,126 4.54 % $ 1,105,585 3.36 % $ 1,640,412 9.31 % fair value $ 5,722,494 $ 1,110,110 ____________________________________________________________________ (1) our debt and preferred equity investments had an estimated fair value ranging between $1.6 billion and $1.8 billion at december 31, 2016 . the table below presents the principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of our share of our joint venture debt obligations and the weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates as of december 31, 2016 (in thousands): long term debt fixed rate average interest rate variable rate average interest rate 2017 $ 194,235 4.04 % $ 380,092 2.74 % 2018 491 4.04 % 47,762 3.00 % 2019 96,505 4.04 % 459,040 3.34 % 2020 1,019 4.03 % 30,164 3.62 % 2021 39,328 4.04 % 183,124 3.67 % thereafter 1,202,806 3.81 % 108,216 2.78 % total $ 1,534,384 4.04 % $ 1,208,398 3.13 % fair value $ 1,525,632 $ 1,206,391 67 table of contents the table below lists our consolidated derivative instruments, which are hedging variable rate debt, and their related fair values as of december 31, 2016 (in thousands): asset hedged benchmark rate notional value strike rate effective date expiration date fair value interest rate swap credit facility libor $ 200,000 0.938 % october 2014 december 2017 $ 11 interest rate swap credit facility libor 150,000 0.940 % october 2014 december 2017 5 interest rate swap credit facility libor 150,000 0.940 % october 2014 december 2017 5 interest rate swap mortgage libor 14,409 0.500 % january 2015 january 2017 2 interest rate swap mortgage libor 8,018 0.852 % february 2015 february 2017 (1 ) interest rate cap mortgage libor 137,500 4.000 % september 2015 september 2017 interest rate cap credit facility libor 1,450,000 4.750 % may 2016 may 2017 interest rate swap credit facility libor 200,000 1.131 % july 2016 july 2023 10,293 interest rate swap credit facility libor 100,000 1.161 % july 2016 july 2023 4,963 interest rate cap mortgage libor 23,199 4.500 % october 2016 october 2017 interest rate swap mortgage libor 5,000 2.160 % december 2016 december 2026 77 interest rate swap mortgage libor 225,000 2.185 % january 2017 january 2027 3,223 interest rate swap mortgage libor 25,000 2.185 % january 2017 january 2027 358 interest rate swap mortgage libor 150,000 2.183 % january 2017 january 2027 2,153 total consolidated hedges $ 21,089 in addition to these derivative instruments, some of our joint venture loan agreements require the joint venture to purchase interest rate caps on its debt. all such interest rate caps had no value at december 31, 2016 . we also swapped certain floating rate debt at some of our joint ventures. these swaps represented in aggregate an asset and obligation of $7.4 million and $0.3 million , respectively, at december 31, 2016 . 68 table of contentsrisk factors 12 item 1b . unresolved staff comments 23 item 2. properties 24 item 3. legal proceedings 33 item 4. mine safety disclosures 33 part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities 34 item 6. selected financial data - sl green realty corp. 36 selected financial data - sl green operating partnership, l.p. item 7 . management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations 40 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 66 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data 68 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure 144 item 9a. controls and procedures 144 item 9b. other information 148 part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance 149 item 11. executive compensation 149 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters 149 item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence 149 item 14. principal accounting fees and services 149 part iv item 15. exhibits, financial statements and schedules 150 signatures 156 table of contents part i item 1. business general sl green realty corp. is a self-managed real estate investment trust, or reit, engaged in the acquisition, development, ownership, management and operation of commercial and residential real estate properties, principally office properties, located in the new york metropolitan area. we were formed in june, 1997 for the purpose of continuing the commercial real estate business of s.l. green properties, inc., our predecessor entity. s.l. green properties, inc., which was founded in 1980 by stephen l. green, the company's chairman, had been engaged in the business of owning, managing, leasing, acquiring, and repositioning office properties in manhattan, a borough of new york city. reckson associates realty corp., or reckson, and reckson operating partnership, l.p., or rop, are wholly-owned subsidiaries of sl green realty corp. as of december 31, 2017 , we owned the following interests in properties in the new york metropolitan area, primarily in midtown manhattan. our investments located outside of manhattan are referred to as the suburban properties: consolidated unconsolidated total location property type number of properties approximate square feet number of properties approximate square feet number of properties approximate square feet weighted average occupancy (1) commercial: manhattan office 23 (2) 14,304,606 9 10,356,864 32 24,661,470 93.9 % retail 4 (3) 302,583 9 347,970 13 650,553 94.5 % development/redevelopment 7 158,985 4 770,514 11 929,499 63.8 % fee interest 1 176,530 1 2 176,530 100.0 % 35 14,942,704 23 11,475,348 58 26,418,052 92.9 % suburban office 20 (4) 3,013,200 2 640,000 22 3,653,200 84.0 % retail 1 52,000 1 52,000 100.0 % development/redevelopment 1 1,000 1 2 1,000 100.0 % 22 3,066,200 3 640,000 25 3,706,200 84.3 % total commercial properties 57 18,008,904 26 12,115,348 83 30,124,252 91.8 % residential: manhattan residential 3 (3) 472,105 12 2,656,856 15 3,128,961 87.6 % suburban residential % total residential properties 3 472,105 12 2,656,856 15 3,128,961 87.6 % total portfolio 60 18,481,009 38 14,772,204 98 33,253,213 91.4 % (1) the weighted average occupancy for commercial properties represents the total occupied square feet divided by total square footage at acquisition. the weighted average occupancy for residential properties represents the total occupied units divided by total available units. (2) includes the property at 600 lexington avenue in new york, new york which was classified as held for sale at december 31, 2017. (3) as of december 31, 2017 , we owned a building that was comprised of approximately 270,132 square feet of retail space and approximately 222,855 square feet of residential space. for the purpose of this report, we have included the building in the number of retail properties we own. however, we have included only the retail square footage in the retail approximate square footage, and have listed the balance of the square footage as residential square footage. (4) includes the properties at 115-117 stevens avenue in valhalla, new york, and 1-6 international drive in rye brook, new york which are classified as held for sale at december 31, 2017. as of december 31, 2017 , we also managed an office building with approximately 336,000 square feet, which is owned by a third party, and held debt and preferred equity investments with a book value of $2.3 billion , including $0.2 billion of debt and preferred equity investments and other financing receivables that are included in balance sheet line items other than the debt and preferred equity investments line item. our corporate offices are located in midtown manhattan at 420 lexington avenue, new york, new york 10170. as of december 31, 2017 , our corporate staff consisted of 310 persons, including 211 professionals experienced in all aspects of commercial real estate. we can be contacted at (212) 594-2700. we maintain a website at www.slgreen.com . on our website, you can obtain, free of charge, a copy of our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material electronically with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission, or the sec. we have also made available on our website our audit committee charter, compensation 4 table of contents committee charter, nominating and corporate governance committee charter, code of business conduct and ethics and corporate governance principles. we do not intend for information contained on our website to be part of this annual report on form 10-k. you can also read and copy any materials we file with the sec at its public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington, dc 20549 (1-800-sec-0330). the sec maintains a website (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. unless the context requires otherwise, all references to the "company," "sl green," "we," "our" and "us" in this annual report means sl green realty corp., a maryland corporation, and one or more of its subsidiaries, including the operating partnership, or, as the context may require, sl green only or the operating partnership only, and "s.l. green properties" means s.l. green properties, inc., a new york corporation, as well as the affiliated partnerships and other entities through which stephen l. green historically conducted commercial real estate activities. corporate structure in connection with the company's initial public offering, or ipo, in august 1997, the operating partnership received a contribution of interests in real estate properties as well as a 95% economic, non-voting interest in the management, leasing and construction companies affiliated with s.l. green properties. we refer to these management, leasing and construction entities, which are owned by s.l. green management corp, as the "service corporation." the company is organized so as to qualify, and has elected to qualify as a reit, under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, or the code. substantially all of our assets are held by, and all of our operations are conducted through, the operating partnership. we are the sole managing general partner of the operating partnership, and as of december 31, 2017 , we owned 95.42% of its economic interests. all of the management and leasing operations with respect to our wholly-owned properties are conducted through sl green management llc, or management llc. the operating partnership owns a 100% interest in management llc. in order to maintain the company's qualification as a reit while realizing income from management, leasing and construction contracts with third parties and joint venture properties, all of these service operations are conducted through the service corporation, a consolidated variable interest entity. we, through our operating partnership, receive substantially all of the cash flow from the service corporation's operations. all of the voting common stock of the service corporation is held by an entity owned and controlled by the chairman of the company's board of directors. business and growth strategies sl green is new york city's largest owner of commercial real estate and an investment-grade s&amp;p 500 company that is focused primarily on owning, managing and maximizing the value of manhattan commercial properties. our core business is the ownership of high quality commercial properties and our primary business objective is to maximize the total return to stockholders, through growth in net income attributable to common stockholders and funds from operations, or ffo, and through asset value appreciation. the commercial real estate expertise resulting from owning, operating, investing, developing, redeveloping and lending on real estate in manhattan for over 37 years has enabled us to invest in a collection of premier office and retail properties, selected multifamily residential assets, and high quality debt and preferred equity investments. we also own high quality office properties in the new york metropolitan area. we are led by a strong, experienced management team that provides a foundation of skills in all aspects of real estate, including acquisitions, dispositions, management, leasing, development, redevelopment, and financing. it is with this team that we have achieved a market leading position in our targeted submarkets. we seek to enhance the value of our company by executing strategies that include the following: leasing and property management, which capitalizes on our extensive presence and knowledge of the marketplaces in which we operate; acquiring office, retail and residential properties and employing our local market skills to reposition these assets to create incremental cash flow and capital appreciation; identifying properties well suited for development/redevelopment and maximizing the value of those properties through redevelopment or reconfiguration to match current workplace, retail and housing trends; investing in debt and preferred equity positions that generate consistently strong risk-adjusted returns, increase the breadth of our market insight, foster key market relationships and source potential future investment opportunities; executing dispositions through sales or joint ventures that harvest embedded equity which has been generated through management's value enhancing activities; and maintaining a prudently levered, liquid balance sheet with consistent access to diversified sources of property level and corporate capital. 5 table of contents leasing and property management we seek to capitalize on our management's extensive knowledge of new york city and surrounding suburban markets and the needs of our tenants through proactive leasing and management programs, which include: (i) use of in-depth market experience resulting from managing and leasing tens of millions of square feet of office, retail and residential space since the company was founded, predominantly in manhattan; (ii) careful tenant management, which results in long average lease terms and a manageable lease expiration schedule; (iii) utilization of an extensive network of third-party brokers to supplement our in-house leasing team; (iv) use of comprehensive building management analysis and planning; and (v) a commitment to tenant satisfaction by providing high quality tenant services at competitive rental rates. we believe that our proactive leasing efforts have directly contributed to our average portfolio occupancy consistently exceeding the market average. property acquisitions we acquire core properties for long-term value appreciation and earnings growth. we also acquire non-core properties that are typically held for shorter periods during which we intend to create significant increases in value. this strategy has resulted in capital gains that increase our investment capital base. in implementing this strategy, we continually evaluate potential acquisition opportunities. these opportunities may come from new properties as well as acquisitions in which we already hold a joint venture interest or, from time to time, from our debt and preferred equity investments. through intimate knowledge of our markets we have developed an ability to source transactions with superior risk-adjusted returns by capturing off-market opportunities. in rising markets, we primarily seek to acquire strategic vacancies that provide the opportunity to take advantage of our exceptional leasing and repositioning capabilities to increase cash flow and property value. in stable or falling markets, we primarily target assets featuring credit tenancies with fully escalated in-place rents to provide cash flow stability near-term and the opportunity for increases over time. management's breadth of activities and expertise in new york city has also enabled us to identify and acquire retail properties in prime manhattan locations. combining our real estate skills and ability to attract premier tenants has resulted in transactions that have provided significant capital appreciation. this same market penetration has permitted us to grow a portfolio of high quality, well-located multifamily properties we believe that we have many advantages over our competitors in acquiring core and non-core properties, both directly and through our joint venture program that includes a predominance of high quality institutional investors. those advantages include: (i) senior management's average 29 years of experience leading a full-service, fully-integrated real estate company focused on the manhattan market; (ii) the ability to offer tax-advantaged structures to sellers through the exchange of ownership interests, including units in our operating partnership; and (iii) the ability to underwrite and close transactions on an expedited basis even when the transaction requires a complicated structure. property dispositions we continually evaluate our portfolio to identify those properties that are most likely to meet our long-term earnings and cash flow growth objectives and contribute to increasing portfolio value. properties that no longer meet our objectives are evaluated for sale, or in certain cases, joint venture to release equity created through management's value enhancement programs or to take advantage of attractive market valuations. we seek to efficiently deploy the capital proceeds generated from these dispositions into property acquisitions and debt and preferred equity investments that we expect will provide enhanced future capital gains and earnings growth opportunities. management may also elect to utilize the capital proceeds from these dispositions to repay existing indebtedness of the company or its subsidiaries, repurchase shares of our common stock, or increase cash liquidity. property repositioning our extensive knowledge of the markets in which we operate and our ability to efficiently plan and execute capital projects provide the expertise to enhance returns by repositioning properties that are underperforming. many of the properties we own or seek to acquire feature unique architectural design elements, including large floor plates, and other amenities and characteristics that can be appealing to tenants when fully exploited. our strategic investment in these properties, combined with our active management and pro-active leasing, provide the opportunity to creatively meet market needs and generate favorable returns. development / redevelopment our constant interactions with tenants and other market participants keep us abreast of innovations in workplace layout, store design and smart living. we leverage this information to identify properties primed for development or redevelopment to meet these demands and unlock value. our deep visibility into the market allows us to acquire locations before others see the opportunity. the expertise and relationships that we have built from managing complex construction projects in new york city 6 table of contents and its surrounding areas allow us to cost efficiently add new and renovated assets of the highest quality and desirability to our operating portfolio. debt and preferred equity investments we invest in well-collateralized debt and preferred equity investments in the markets in which we operate, primarily new york city, that generate attractive yields. see note 5, "debt and preferred equity investments," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. knowledge of our markets and our leasing and asset management expertise provide underwriting capabilities that enable a highly educated assessment of risk and return. the benefits of this investment program, which has a carefully managed aggregate size, net of anticipated payoffs, generally not to exceed 10% of our total enterprise value, include the following: our typical investments provide high current returns at conservative exposure levels and, in certain cases, the potential for future capital gains. because we are the largest commercial property owner in manhattan, our expertise and operating capabilities provide both insight and operating skills that mitigate risk. in certain instances, these investments serve as a potential source of real estate acquisitions for us when a borrower seeks an efficient off-market transaction. ownership knows that we are fully familiar with the asset through our existing investment, and that we can close more efficiently and quickly than others. property owners may also provide us the opportunity to consider off-market transactions involving other properties they own because we have previously provided debt or preferred equity financing to them. these investments are concentrated in manhattan, which helps us gain market insight, awareness of upcoming investment opportunities and foster key relationships that may provide access to future investment opportunities. capital resources our objective is to maintain multiple sources of corporate and property level capital to obtain the most appropriate and lowest cost of capital. this objective is supported by: property operations that generally provide stable and growing cash flows through market cycles due to favorable supply/demand metrics in manhattan, long average lease terms, high credit quality tenants and superior leasing, operating and asset management skills; concentration of our activities in a manhattan market that is consistently attractive to property investors and lenders through market cycles relative to other markets; maintaining strong corporate liquidity and careful management of future debt maturities; and maintaining access to corporate capital markets through balanced financing and investment activities that result in strong balance sheet and cash flow metrics. manhattan office market overview manhattan is by far the largest office market in the united states containing more rentable square feet than the next four largest central business district office markets combined. the properties in our portfolio are concentrated in some of manhattan's most prominent midtown locations. according to cushman and wakefield research services as of december 31, 2017, manhattan has a total office inventory of approximately 399.0 million square feet, including approximately 243.1 million square feet in midtown. we estimate that approximately 18.3 million square feet of new construction class-a buildings over 250,000 square feet will become available between 2018 and 2022 in manhattan, approximately 45.4% of which is pre-leased. we estimate that this increase is partially offset by approximately 4.4 million square feet which will be converted from office use to an alternative use. this will add only approximately 0.7% per year to manhattan's total inventory, net of conversions, over the next five years. while the addition of new supply to the manhattan office inventory is nominal relative to the size of the overall market, we view any additional supply as a positive to the manhattan office market given the older vintage of the majority of manhattan's office inventory and the desire of certain tenants to occupy new, high quality, efficient office space, which often isn't available in older vintage properties. in addition, manhattan's office inventory has only grown by approximately 8.3 million square feet over the last 25-30 years. general terms of leases in the manhattan markets leases entered into for space in manhattan typically contain terms that may not be contained in leases in other u.s. office markets. the initial term of leases entered into for space in manhattan is generally seven to fifteen years. tenants leasing space in excess of 10,000 square feet for an initial term of 10 years or longer often will negotiate an option to extend the term of the lease for one or two renewal periods, typically for a term of five years each. the base rent during the initial term often will provide for agreed-upon periodic increases over the term of the lease. base rent for renewal terms is most often based upon the then fair 7 table of contents market rental value of the premises as of the commencement date of the applicable renewal term (generally determined by binding arbitration in the event the landlord and the tenant are unable to mutually agree upon the fair market value), though base rent for a renewal period may be set at 95% of the then fair market rent. very infrequently, leases may contain termination options whereby a tenant can terminate the lease obligation before the lease expiration date upon payment of a penalty together with repayment of the unamortized portion of the landlord's transaction costs (e.g., brokerage commissions, free rent periods, tenant improvement allowances, etc.). in addition to base rent, a tenant will generally also pay its pro rata share of increases in real estate taxes and operating expenses for the building over a base year, which is typically the year during which the term of the lease commences, based upon the tenant's proportionate occupancy of the building. in some smaller leases (generally less than 10,000 square feet), in lieu of paying additional rent based upon increases in building operating expenses, base rent will be increased each year during the lease term by a set percentage on a compounding basis (though the tenant will still pay its pro rata share of increases in real estate taxes over a base year). tenants typically receive a free rent period following commencement of the lease term, which in some cases may coincide with the tenant's construction period. the landlord most often supplies electricity either on a sub-metered basis at the landlord's cost plus a fixed percentage or a rent inclusion basis (i.e., a fixed fee is added to the base rent for electricity, which amount may increase based upon increases in electricity rates or increases in electrical usage by the tenant). base building services, other than electricity, such as heat, air conditioning, freight elevator service during business hours and base building cleaning typically are provided at no additional cost, but are included in the building's operating expenses. the tenant will typically pay additional rent only for services which exceed base building services or for services which are provided other than during normal business hours. in a typical lease for a new tenant renting in excess of 10,000 square feet, the landlord will deliver the premises with existing improvements demolished. in such instances, the landlord will typically provide a tenant improvement allowance, which is a fixed sum that the landlord makes available to the tenant to reimburse the tenant for all or a portion of the tenant's initial construction of its premises. such sum typically is payable as work progresses, upon submission by the tenant of invoices for the cost of construction and lien waivers. however, in certain leases (most often for relatively small amounts of space), the landlord will construct the premises for the tenant at a cost to the landlord not to exceed an agreed upon amount with the tenant paying any amount in excess of the agreed upon amount. in addition, landlords may rent space to a tenant that is "pre-built" (i.e., space that was constructed by the landlord in advance of lease signing and is ready to for the tenant to move in with the tenant selecting paint and carpet colors). occupancy the following table sets forth the weighted average occupancy rates at our office properties based on space leased as of december 31, 2017 and 2016 : percent occupied as of december 31, property 2017 2016 same-store properties (1) - manhattan 95.3% 95.9% same-store properties (1) - suburban 87.2% 83.7% manhattan properties 93.9% 94.9% suburban properties 84.0% 80.7% unconsolidated joint venture properties 95.4% 91.8% portfolio 92.6% 92.8% (1) same-store properties represents all operating properties owned by us at january 1, 2016 and still owned by us in the same manner at december 31, 2017 , which totaled 43 of our 60 consolidated operating properties. rent growth we are constantly evaluating our schedule of future lease expirations to mitigate occupancy risk while maximizing rent growth. we proactively manage future lease expirations based on our view of estimated current and future market asking rents. the following table sets forth our future lease expirations, excluding triple net leases, and management's estimates of market asking rents. taking rents are typically lower than asking rents and may vary from building to building. there can be no assurances that our estimates of market rents are accurate or that market rents currently prevailing will not erode or outperform in the future. 8 table of contents annual lease expirations - manhattan operating properties consolidated properties joint venture properties year of lease expiration number of expiring leases (2) rentable square footage of expiring leases percentage of total sq. ft. annualized cash rent of expiring leases annualized cash rent per square foot of expiring leases $/psf (3) current weighted average asking rent $/psf (4) number of expiring leases (2) rentable square footage of expiring leases percentage of total sq. ft. annualized cash rent of expiring leases annualized cash rent per square foot of expiring leases $/psf (3) current weighted average asking rent $/psf (4) 2017 (1) 9 10,006 0.07 % $460,049 $45.98 $50.24 2 9,390 0.09 % $838,610 $89.31 $86.81 1st quarter 2018 19 175,633 1.28 % $19,756,616 $112.49 $147.33 4 32,921 0.32 % $3,149,806 $95.68 $88.74 2nd quarter 2018 12 22,359 0.16 % 1,157,748 51.78 49.77 4 17,004 0.17 % 1,326,190 77.99 72.98 3rd quarter 2018 15 205,231 1.49 % 14,262,717 69.50 72.89 6 34,434 0.34 % 3,115,836 90.49 71.64 4th quarter 2018 26 127,928 0.93 % 10,383,082 81.16 80.69 10 85,572 0.83 % 9,956,499 116.35 84.55 total 2018 72 531,151 3.86 % $45,560,163 $85.78 $98.41 24 169,931 1.66 % $17,548,331 $103.27 $81.59 2019 82 1,044,922 7.61 % $76,410,441 $73.13 $70.38 26 441,261 4.30 % $35,603,350 $80.69 $84.85 2020 98 2,328,968 16.95 % 154,071,400 66.15 70.50 23 311,702 3.03 % 20,180,982 64.74 70.73 2021 98 1,786,589 13.01 % 116,415,234 65.16 67.50 29 369,113 3.59 % 24,084,040 65.25 74.12 2022 100 1,143,613 8.32 % 76,759,862 67.12 75.58 31 289,323 2.82 % 24,224,560 83.73 86.48 2023 48 832,935 6.06 % 49,899,730 59.91 64.56 15 468,914 4.57 % 37,810,443 80.63 77.77 2024 31 278,486 2.03 % 19,641,171 70.53 74.41 17 990,382 9.64 % 95,723,469 96.65 86.24 2025 32 550,101 4.00 % 54,587,969 99.23 95.42 16 591,141 5.76 % 45,575,954 77.10 81.52 2026 29 799,693 5.82 % 51,742,849 64.70 68.62 15 432,478 4.21 % 43,371,726 100.29 109.34 thereafter 112 4,430,805 32.27 % 260,536,204 58.80 65.81 48 6,197,422 60.33 % 419,550,447 67.70 83.66 711 13,737,269 100.00 % $906,085,072 $65.96 $70.68 246 10,271,057 100.00 % $764,511,912 $74.43 $83.96 annual lease expirations - suburban operating properties consolidated properties joint venture properties year of lease expiration number of expiring leases (2) rentable square footage of expiring leases percentage of total sq. ft. annualized cash rent of expiring leases annualized cash rent per square foot of expiring leases $/psf (3) current weighted average asking rent $/psf (4) number of expiring leases (2) rentable square footage of expiring leases percentage of total sq. ft. annualized cash rent of expiring leases annualized cash rent per square foot of expiring leases $/psf (3) current weighted average asking rent $/psf (4) 2017 (1) 14 53,994 2.20 % $2,309,173 $42.77 $38.00 3 19,684 4.50 % $771,937 $39.22 $35.61 1st quarter 2018 14 55,557 2.27 % $1,753,503 $31.56 $30.49 % $ $ $ 2nd quarter 2018 6 31,525 1.29 % 981,528 31.13 32.05 % 3rd quarter 2018 10 49,044 2.00 % 1,672,657 34.11 34.13 % 4th quarter 2018 9 68,782 2.81 % 2,243,941 32.62 36.31 % total 2018 39 204,908 8.37 % $6,651,629 $32.46 $33.55 % $ $ $ 2019 37 395,568 16.15 % $11,387,110 $28.79 $29.12 8 39,354 9.00 % $1,322,125 $33.60 $36.00 2020 46 284,734 11.63 % 9,905,255 34.79 35.64 5 47,964 10.96 % 1,837,847 38.32 35.67 2021 32 296,334 12.10 % 9,716,915 32.79 32.85 5 104,296 23.84 % 4,001,316 38.36 36.00 2022 28 124,214 5.07 % 4,579,117 36.86 39.02 2 18,012 4.12 % 658,428 36.55 36.00 2023 24 193,443 7.90 % 6,604,408 34.14 33.29 3 52,010 11.89 % 1,956,588 37.62 35.80 2024 6 113,413 4.63 % 3,220,430 28.40 28.46 2 52,707 12.05 % 1,860,324 35.30 36.00 2025 10 109,013 4.45 % 3,434,309 31.50 33.51 1 1,729 0.40 % 59,040 34.15 36.00 2026 15 284,252 11.61 % 9,523,950 33.51 33.18 4 88,854 20.31 % 3,009,736 33.87 35.96 thereafter 21 389,273 15.89 % 10,526,113 27.04 27.96 1 12,862 2.93 % 417,546 32.46 36.00 272 2,449,146 100.00 % $77,858,409 $31.79 $32.18 34 437,472 100.00 % $15,894,887 $36.33 $35.91 (1) includes month to month holdover tenants that expired prior to december 31, 2017. (2) tenants may have multiple leases. (3) represents in place annualized rent allocated by year of expiration. (4) management's estimate of current average asking rents for currently occupied space as of december 31, 2017. taking rents are typically lower than asking rents and may vary from property to property. industry segments the company is a reit that is engaged in the acquisition, development, ownership, management and operation of commercial and residential real estate properties, principally office properties, located in the new york metropolitan area and has two reportable segments: real estate and debt and preferred equity investments. our industry segments are discussed in note 21, "segment information," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. at december 31, 2017 , our real estate portfolio was primarily located in one geographical market, the new york metropolitan area. the primary sources of revenue are generated from tenant rents and escalations and reimbursement revenue. real estate property operating expenses consist primarily of security, maintenance, utility costs, real estate taxes and, at certain properties, ground rent expense. as of december 31, 2017 , one tenant in our office portfolio contributed 8.0% of our share of annualized 9 table of contents cash rent. no other tenant contributed more than 5.0% of our share of annualized cash rent. no property contributed in excess of 10.0% of our consolidated total revenue for 2017 . at december 31, 2017 , we held debt and preferred equity investments with a book value of $2.3 billion , including $0.2 billion of debt and preferred equity investments and other financing receivables that are included in balance sheet line items other than the debt and preferred equity investments line item. at december 31, 2017 , the assets underlying our debt and preferred equity investments were located in the new york metropolitan area. the primary sources of revenue are generated from interest and fee income. employees at december 31, 2017 , we employed 1,065 employees, 212 of whom were managers and professionals, 754 of whom were hourly-paid employees involved in building operations and 99 of whom were clerical, data processing and other administrative employees. there are currently six collective bargaining agreements which cover the workforce that services substantially all of our properties. highlights from 2017 our significant achievements from 2017 included: corporate repurchased 8.3 million shares of our common stock under our share repurchase program at an average price of $101.64 per share and increased the size of our share repurchase program by $500 million to $1.5 billion. executed a guaranteed maximum price contract, secured a new building permit and commenced vertical construction at one vanderbilt. leasing signed 191 manhattan office leases covering approximately 1.5 million square feet. the mark-to-market on signed manhattan office leases was 11.3% higher in 2017 than the previously fully escalated rents on the same spaces. signed 89 suburban office leases covering approximately 0.5 million square feet. the mark-to-market on signed suburban office leases was 2.9% higher in 2017 than the previously fully escalated rents on the same spaces. signed long-term leases with dz bank and dvb bank at one vanderbilt for a total of 35,382 square feet. the 15-year leases cover the entire 26th floor of the 58-story skyscraper currently being constructed next to grand central terminal. signed leases with line friends for 7,711 square feet, of which 4,629 square feet is at-grade, and viacom for 8,700 square feet at 1515 broadway for the retail space previously occupied by aeropostale. signed a new lease with ascensia diabetes care us inc. for 65,000 square feet at 100 summit lake drive in valhalla, new york for 11.0 years. acquisitions together with private investment manager rxr realty closed on the acquisition of a combined 48.7% interest in worldwide plaza based on a gross asset valuation of $1.725 billion. the acquisition allows the company to expand its footprint on manhattan's west side through investing in a class a asset that is fully leased to institutional tenants. dispositions closed on the sale of a 27.6% interest in one vanderbilt to the national pension service of korea ("nps") and a 1.4% interest to hines interest lp ("hines"). closed on the sale of a 30% interest in 1515 broadway at a gross asset valuation of $1.950 billion, pursuant to an agreement to sell interests totaling 43%. the balance of the transaction closed in the first quarter of 2018. entered into an agreement to sell 600 lexington avenue for a gross asset valuation of $305.0 million. the transaction closed in january 2018. closed on the sale of 16 court street in brooklyn, new york for a gross asset valuation of $171.0 million. closed on the sale of 680-750 washington boulevard, in stamford, connecticut, for a gross asset valuation of $97.0 million. closed on the sale of 102 greene street for a gross asset valuation of $43.5 million. closed on the sale of 125 chubb avenue in lyndhurst, new jersey, for a gross asset valuation of $29.5 million. 10 table of contents closed on the sale of 520 white plains road in tarrytown, new york, for a gross asset valuation of $21.0 million sold 4,774,220 common shares of new york reit, inc., or nyrt, representing the company's total holdings, generating a $3.3 million gain. debt and preferred equity investments originated and retained, or acquired, $1.3 billion in debt and preferred equity investments, inclusive of advances under future funding obligations, discount and fee amortization, and paid-in-kind interest, net of premium amortization, and recorded $813 million of proceeds from sales, repayments and participations. finance fitch ratings upgraded the corporate credit ratings for the company. returned to the public unsecured debt markets with an issuance of $500.0 million of 5-year, 3.25% senior unsecured notes. issued an additional $100.0 million of 4.50% senior unsecured notes due december 2022. the notes priced at 105.334% plus accrued interest with a yield to maturity of 3.298%. refinanced, extended, and expanded our unsecured corporate credit facility by $217 million, to $3.0 billion. the new facility, which reduced overall borrowing costs, includes a $1.5 billion revolving line of credit and $1.3 billion funded term loan component that both mature in 2023 as well as a new $200.0 million 7-year term loan component that matures in 2024. closed on a new $300.0 million debt and preferred equity liquidity facility, which provides for favorable financing of senior mortgage loan investments. the new facility has a 1-year term with two 1-year extension options. in conjunction with our acquisition of an interest in worldwide plaza, together with our joint venture partners, closed on a $1.2 billion financing of the property. the new loan has a term of 10 years and carries a fixed interest rate of 3.98%. together with our joint venture partner, closed on a $1.2 billion refinancing of 280 park avenue, which bears interest at a floating rate of 1.73% over libor. the new loan matures in 2024, as extended, and replaces the previous $900.0 million of indebtedness on the property. together with our joint venture partner, closed on $275.0 million of financing of 650 fifth avenue. the financing matures in october 2022 and is comprised of a $210.0 million mortgage that carries a fixed interest rate of 4.460% and a $65.0 million mezzanine loan that carries a fixed interest rate of 5.450%. together with our joint venture partner, closed on a $195.0 million refinancing of 1552 broadway, which bears interest at a floating rate of 2.65% over libor. the new loan matures in 2022, as extended, and replaces the previous $185.4 million of indebtedness on the property. together with our joint venture partner, closed on a $195.0 million refinancing of 55 west 46th street, known as tower 46, which bears interest at a floating rate of 2.125% over libor. the new loan matures in 2023, as extended, and replaces the previous $165.6 million of indebtedness on the property. together with our joint venture partner, closed on a $170.0 million refinancing of 10 east 53rd street, which bears interest at a floating rate of 2.25% over libor. the new mortgage has a 3-year term with two 1-year extension options and replaces the previous $125.0 million of mortgage indebtedness on the property. together with our joint venture partner, closed on a $35.5 million financing of 1080 amsterdam avenue. the new mortgage has a 5-year term and carries a fixed effective interest rate of 3.50%. 11 table of contents item 1a. risk factors declines in the demand for office space in new york city, and in particular midtown manhattan, as well as our suburban markets, could adversely affect the value of our real estate portfolio and our results of operations and, consequently, our ability to service current debt and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. the majority of our property holdings are comprised of commercial office properties located in midtown manhattan. our property holdings also include a number of retail properties and multifamily residential properties. as a result of the concentration of our holdings, our business is dependent on the condition of the new york city economy in general and the market for office space in midtown manhattan in particular. future weakness and uncertainty in the new york city economy could materially reduce the value of our real estate portfolio and our rental revenues, and thus adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service current debt and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. similarly, future weakness and uncertainty in our suburban markets could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service current debt and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. we may be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases expire. if tenants decide not to renew their leases upon expiration, we may not be able to relet the space. even if tenants do renew or we can relet the space, the terms of a renewal or new lease, taking into account among other things, the cost of improvements to the property and leasing commissions, may be less favorable than the terms in the expired leases. as of december 31, 2017 , approximately 50.7% and approximately 17.0% of the rentable square feet, are scheduled to expire by december 31, 2022 at our consolidated properties and unconsolidated joint venture properties, respectively, and as of december 31, 2017 , these leases had annualized escalated rent totaling $514.2 million and $131.1 million , respectively. in addition, changes in space utilization by tenants may impact our ability to renew or relet space without the need to incur substantial costs in renovating or redesigning the internal configuration of the relevant property. if we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet the space at similar rates or if we incur substantial costs in renewing or reletting the space, our cash flow and ability to service debt obligations and pay dividends and distributions to security holders could be adversely affected. we face significant competition for tenants. the leasing of real estate is highly competitive. the principal competitive factors are rent, location, services provided and the nature and condition of the property to be leased. we directly compete with all owners, developers and operators of similar space in the areas in which our properties are located. our commercial office properties are concentrated in highly developed areas of midtown manhattan and certain suburban central business districts, or cbds. manhattan is the largest office market in the united states. the number of competitive office properties in manhattan and cbds in which our suburban properties are located, which may be newer or better located than our properties, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease office space at our properties, and on the effective rents we are able to charge. the expiration of long term leases or operating sublease interests where we do not own a fee interest in the land could adversely affect our results of operations. our interests in 420 lexington avenue, 461 fifth avenue, 711 third avenue, 625 madison avenue, 1185 avenue of the americas, 1080 amsterdam avenue, and 30 east 40th street, all in manhattan, and 1055 washington avenue, stamford, connecticut, are entirely or partially comprised of either long-term leasehold or operating sublease interests in the land and the improvements, rather than by ownership of fee interest in the land. we have the ability to acquire the fee position at 461 fifth avenue for a fixed price on a specific date and own 50% of the fee position at 711 third avenue. the average remaining term of these long-term leases as of december 31, 2017 , including our unilateral extension rights on each of the properties, is 50 years. pursuant to the leasehold arrangements, we, as tenant under the operating sublease, perform the functions traditionally performed by landlords with respect to our subtenants. we are responsible for not only collecting rent from our subtenants, but also maintaining the property and paying expenses relating to the property. our share of annualized cash rents of the commercial office properties held through long-term leases or operating sublease interests at december 31, 2017 totaled $295.4 million , or 22.0% , of our share of total portfolio annualized cash rent. unless we purchase a fee interest in the underlying land or extend the terms of these leases prior to expiration, we will lose our right to operate these properties upon expiration of the leases, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. rent payments under leasehold or operating sublease interests are adjusted, within the parameters of the contractual arrangements, at certain intervals. rent adjustments may result in higher rents that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. 12 table of contents we rely on five large properties for a significant portion of our revenue. five of our properties, 11 madison avenue, 1185 avenue of the americas, 1515 broadway, 420 lexington avenue, and 1 madison avenue accounted for 32.8% of our portfolio annualized cash rent, which includes our share of joint venture annualized cash rent as of december 31, 2017 . our revenue and cash available to service debt obligations and for distribution to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected if any of these properties were materially damaged or destroyed. additionally, our revenue and cash available to service debt obligations and for distribution to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected if tenants at these properties fail to timely make rental payments due to adverse financial conditions or otherwise, default under their leases or file for bankruptcy or become insolvent. our results of operations rely on major tenants and insolvency or bankruptcy of these or other tenants could adversely affect our results of operations. giving effect to leases in effect as of december 31, 2017 for consolidated properties and unconsolidated joint venture properties, as of that date, our five largest tenants, based on annualized cash rent, accounted for 18.0% of our share of portfolio annualized cash rent, with two tenants, credit suisse securities (usa) llc, and viacom international inc. accounting for 8.0% , and 4.4% of our share of portfolio annualized cash rent, respectively. our business and results of operations would be adversely affected if any of our major tenants became insolvent, declared bankruptcy, or otherwise refused to pay rent in a timely fashion or at all. in addition, if business conditions in the industries in which our tenants are concentrated deteriorate, we may experience increases in past due accounts, defaults, lower occupancy and reduced effective rents across tenants in such industries, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. construction is in progress at our ground-up development project, one vanderbilt. the company continues its significant ground-up development project, one vanderbilt. construction of the project will not be completed for several years. as with any ground-up development project, unforeseen delays and other matters could further delay completion, result in increased costs or otherwise have a material effect on our results of operations. in addition, the extended time frame to complete the project will cause the project to be subject to shifts and trends in the real estate market which may not be consistent with our current business plans for this property. we are subject to risks that affect the retail environment. approximately 4.9% of our portfolio annualized cash rent is generated by retail properties, principally in manhattan. as a result, we are subject to risks that affect the retail environment generally, including the level of consumer spending, consumer confidence and levels of tourism in manhattan. these factors could adversely affect the financial condition of our retail tenants and the willingness of retailers to lease space in our retail properties, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. adverse economic and geopolitical conditions in general and the commercial office markets in particular could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and, consequently, our ability to service debt obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. our business may be affected by volatility in the financial and credit markets and other market, economic, or political challenges experienced by the u.s. economy or the real estate industry as a whole, including changes in law and policy accompanying the new administration and uncertainty in connection with any such changes. future periods of economic weakness could result in reduced access to credit and/or wider credit spreads. economic or political uncertainty, including concern about growth and the stability of the markets generally, may lead many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide funding to borrowers, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our tenants. specifically, our business may be affected by the following conditions: significant job losses or declining rates of job creation which may decrease demand for our office space, causing market rental rates and property values to be negatively impacted; our ability to borrow on terms and conditions that we find acceptable may be limited, which could reduce our ability to pursue acquisition and development opportunities and refinance existing debt, reducing our returns from both our existing operations and our acquisition and development activities and increasing our future interest expense; and reduced values of our properties, which may limit our ability to dispose of assets at attractive prices or to obtain debt financing secured by our properties and may reduce the availability of unsecured loans. leasing office space to smaller and growth-oriented businesses could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. some of the tenants in our properties are smaller, growth-oriented businesses that may not have the financial strength of larger corporate tenants. smaller companies generally experience a higher rate of failure than larger businesses. growth-oriented 13 table of contents firms may also seek other office space as they develop. leasing office space to these companies could create a higher risk of tenant defaults, turnover and bankruptcies, which could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. we may suffer adverse consequences if our revenues decline since our operating costs do not necessarily decline in proportion to our revenue. we earn a significant portion of our income from renting our properties. our operating costs, however, do not necessarily fluctuate in direct proportion to changes in our rental revenue. as a result, our costs will not necessarily decline even if our revenues do. in such event, we may be forced to borrow to cover our costs, we may incur losses or we may not have cash available to service our debt and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. competition for acquisitions may reduce the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and increase the costs of those acquisitions. we may acquire properties when we are presented with attractive opportunities. we may face competition for acquisition opportunities from other investors, particularly those investors who are willing to incur more leverage, and this competition may adversely affect us by subjecting us to the following risks: an inability to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well-capitalized real estate investors, including publicly traded and privately held reits, private real estate funds, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, pension trusts, partnerships and individual investors; and an increase in the purchase price for such acquisition property. if we are unable to successfully acquire additional properties, our ability to grow our business could be adversely affected. in addition, increases in the cost of acquisition opportunities could adversely affect our results of operations. we face risks associated with property acquisitions. our business strategy relies upon the acquisition of interests in properties, individual properties and portfolios of properties, including large portfolios that could significantly increase our size and alter our capital structure. our acquisition activities may not be successful if we are unable to meet required closing conditions or unable to finance acquisitions and developments of properties on favorable terms or at all. additionally, we have less visibility into the future performance of acquired properties than properties that we have owned for a period of time, and therefore, recently acquired properties may not be as profitable as our existing portfolio. further, we may acquire properties subject to both known and unknown liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse to the seller. as a result, if a liability were asserted against us arising from our ownership of those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. unknown liabilities with respect to properties acquired might include: claims by tenants, vendors or other persons arising from dealing with the former owners of the properties; liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties; and liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination. limitations on our ability to sell or reduce the indebtedness on specific properties could adversely affect the value of our common stock. in connection with past and future acquisitions of interests in properties, we have or may agree to restrictions on our ability to sell or refinance the acquired properties for certain periods. these limitations could result in us holding properties which we would otherwise sell, or prevent us from paying down or refinancing existing indebtedness, any of which may have adverse consequences on our business and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 14 table of contents potential losses may not be covered by insurance. we maintain all-risk property and rental value coverage (including coverage regarding the perils of flood, earthquake and terrorism, excluding nuclear, biological, chemical, and radiological terrorism ("nbcr")), within three property insurance programs and liability insurance. separate property and liability coverage may be purchased on a stand-alone basis for certain assets, such as the development of one vanderbilt. additionally, our captive insurance company, belmont insurance company, or belmont, provides coverage for nbcr terrorist acts above a specified trigger, although if belmont is required to pay a claim under our insurance policies, we would ultimately record the loss to the extent of belmont's required payment. however, there is no assurance that in the future we will be able to procure coverage at a reasonable cost. further, if we experience losses that are uninsured or that exceed policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties as well as the anticipated future cash flows from those properties. additionally, our debt instruments contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance and we could default under debt our instruments if the cost and/or availability of certain types of insurance make it impractical or impossible to comply with such covenants relating to insurance. belmont provides coverage solely on properties owned by the company or its affiliates. furthermore, with respect to certain of our properties, including properties held by joint ventures, or subject to triple net leases, insurance coverage is obtained by a third-party and we do not control the coverage. while we may have agreements with such third parties to maintain adequate coverage and we monitor these policies, such coverage ultimately may not be maintained or adequately cover our risk of loss. the occurrence of a terrorist attack may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to generate cash flow. our operations are primarily concentrated in the new york metropolitan area. in the aftermath of a terrorist attack or other acts of terrorism or war, tenants in the new york metropolitan area may choose to relocate their business to less populated, lower-profile areas of the united states that those tenants believe are not as likely to be targets of future terrorist activity. in addition, economic activity could decline as a result of terrorist attacks or other acts of terrorism or war, or the perceived threat of such acts. each of these impacts could in turn trigger a decrease in the demand for space in the new york metropolitan area, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease our properties on less favorable terms. while under the terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization act of 2015, insurers must make terrorism insurance available under their property and casualty insurance policies, this legislation does not regulate the pricing of such insurance. the absence of affordable terrorism insurance coverage may adversely affect the general real estate lending market, lending volume and the market's overall liquidity and, in the event of an uninsured loss, we could lose all or a portion of our assets. furthermore, we may also experience increased costs in relation to security equipment and personnel. as a result, the value of our properties and our results of operations could materially decline. we face possible risks associated with the natural disasters and the physical effects of climate change. we are subject to risks associated with natural disasters and the physical effects of climate change, which can include storms, hurricanes and flooding, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations and business. to the extent climate change causes changes in weather patterns, our markets could experience increases in storm intensity and rising sea-levels. over time, these conditions could result in declining demand for office space in our buildings or the inability of us to operate the buildings at all. climate change may also have indirect effects on our business by increasing the cost of (or making unavailable) property insurance on terms we find acceptable, increasing the cost of energy at our properties and requiring us to expend funds as we seek to repair and protect our properties against such risks. there can be no assurance that climate change will not have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations or business. we depend on dividends and distributions from our direct and indirect subsidiaries. substantially all of our assets are held through subsidiaries of our operating partnership. our operating partnership's cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by its subsidiaries, and in turn, substantially all of our cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to us by our operating partnership. the creditors of each of our direct and indirect subsidiaries are entitled to payment of that subsidiary's obligations to them, when due and payable, before distributions may be made by that subsidiary to its equity holders. therefore, our operating partnership's ability to make distributions to holders of its partnership units depends on its subsidiaries' ability first to satisfy their obligations to their creditors and then to make distributions to our operating partnership. likewise, our ability to pay dividends to holders of common stock and preferred stock depends on our operating partnership's ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions payable to holders of preferred units and then to make distributions to us. furthermore, the holders of preferred partnership units of our operating partnership are entitled to receive preferred distributions before payment of distributions to holders of common units of our operating partnership, including us. thus, our ability to pay cash dividends to our shareholders and satisfy our debt obligations depends on our operating partnership's ability 15 table of contents first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions to holders of its preferred partnership units and then to holders of its common units, including us. in addition, our participation in any distribution of the assets of any of our direct or indirect subsidiaries upon any liquidation, reorganization or insolvency is only after the claims of the creditors, including trade creditors and preferred security holders, are satisfied. debt financing, financial covenants, degree of leverage, and increases in interest rates could adversely affect our economic performance. scheduled debt payments could adversely affect our results of operations. cash flow could be insufficient to pay dividends and meet the payments of principal and interest required under our current mortgages, our 2017 credit facility, our senior unsecured notes, our debentures and indebtedness outstanding at our joint venture properties. the total principal amount of our outstanding consolidated indebtedness was $5.9 billion as of december 31, 2017 , consisting of $1.5 billion in unsecured bank term loans (or "term loan a" and "term loan b"), $1.4 billion under our senior unsecured notes, $0.1 billion of junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures, $2.9 billion of non-recourse mortgages and loans payable on certain of our properties and debt and preferred equity investments, $40.0 million drawn under our revolving credit facility, and $11.8 million letters of credit. in addition, we could increase the amount of our outstanding consolidated indebtedness in the future, in part by borrowing under the revolving credit facility portion of our 2017 credit facility. as of december 31, 2017 , the total principal amount of non-recourse indebtedness outstanding at the joint venture properties was $9.5 billion , of which our proportionate share was $4.2 billion . as of december 31, 2017 , we had no recourse indebtedness outstanding at our unconsolidated joint venture properties. if we are unable to make payments under our 2017 credit facility, all amounts due and owing at such time shall accrue interest at a rate equal to 2% higher than the rate at which each draw was made. if we are unable to make payments under our senior unsecured notes, the principal and unpaid interest will become immediately payable. if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property, resulting in loss of income and asset value. foreclosure on mortgaged properties or an inability to make payments under our 2017 credit facility or our senior unsecured notes could trigger defaults under the terms of our other financings, making such financings at risk of being declared immediately payable, and would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to refinance existing indebtedness, which may require substantial principal payments at maturity. $164.8 million of consolidated mortgage debt and $187.7 million of unconsolidated joint venture debt is scheduled to mature in 2018 after giving effect to repayments and refinancing of consolidated and joint venture debt between december 31, 2017 and february 22, 2018 as discussed in the "financial statements and supplementary data" section. at the present time, we intend to repay, refinance, or exercise extension options on the debt associated with our properties on or prior to their respective maturity dates. at the time of refinancing, prevailing interest rates or other factors, such as the possible reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans, may result in higher interest rates. increased interest expense on the extended or refinanced debt would adversely affect cash flow and our ability to service debt obligations and pay dividends and distributions to security holders. if any principal payments due at maturity cannot be repaid, refinanced or extended, our cash flow will not be sufficient to repay maturing or accelerated debt. financial covenants could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. the mortgages and mezzanine loans on our properties generally contain customary negative covenants that limit our ability to further mortgage the properties, to enter into material leases without lender consent or materially modify existing leases, among other things. in addition, our 2017 credit facility and senior unsecured notes contain restrictions and requirements on our method of operations. our 2017 credit facility and our unsecured notes also require us to maintain designated ratios, including but not limited to, total debt-to-assets, debt service coverage and unencumbered assets-to-unsecured debt. these restrictions could adversely affect operations (including reducing our flexibility and our ability to incur additional debt), our ability to pay debt obligations and our ability to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. rising interest rates could adversely affect our cash flow. advances under our 2017 credit facility and certain property-level mortgage debt bear interest at a variable rate. our consolidated variable rate borrowings totaled $1.6 billion at december 31, 2017 . in addition, we could increase the amount of our outstanding variable rate debt in the future, in part by borrowing additional amounts under our 2017 credit facility. borrowings under our revolving credit facility and term loans bore interest at the 30-day libor, plus spreads of 100 basis points, 110 basis points, and 165 basis points, respectively, at december 31, 2017 . as of december 31, 2017 , borrowings under our term loans and junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures totaled $1.5 billion and $100.0 million , respectively. we may incur indebtedness in the future that also bears interest at a variable rate or may be required to refinance our debt at higher rates. at december 31, 2017 , a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates across each of our variable interest rate instruments, including our variable rate debt and preferred equity investments which mitigate our exposure to interest rate changes, would increase our net 16 table of contents annual interest costs by $2.7 million and would increase our share of joint venture annual interest costs by $17.2 million . our joint ventures may also incur variable rate debt and face similar risks. accordingly, increases in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial conditions and our ability to continue to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect results of operations. the interest rate hedge instruments we use to manage some of our exposure to interest rate volatility involve risk and counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. in addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes and when existing interest rate hedges terminate, we may incur increased costs in putting in place further interest rate hedges. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. increases in our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our stock price. our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness we may incur. as of december 31, 2017 , assuming the conversion of all outstanding units of the operating partnership into shares of our common stock, our combined debt-to-market capitalization ratio, including our share of joint venture debt, was 49.4% . our market capitalization is variable and does not necessarily reflect the fair market value of our assets at all times. we also consider factors other than market capitalization in making decisions regarding the incurrence of indebtedness, such as the purchase price of properties to be acquired with debt financing, the estimated market value of our properties upon refinancing and the ability of particular properties and our business as a whole to generate cash flow to cover expected debt service. any changes that increase our debt-to-market capitalization percentage could be viewed negatively by investors. as a result, our stock price could decrease. a downgrade in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. our credit rating and the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities and our preferred stock could change based upon, among other things, our results of operations and financial condition. these ratings are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and any rating could be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future if, in its judgment, circumstances warrant such action. moreover, these credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our common stock or any other securities. if any of the credit rating agencies that have rated our securities downgrades or lowers its credit rating, or if any credit rating agency indicates that it has placed any such rating on a watch list for a possible downgrading or lowering, or otherwise indicates that its outlook for that rating is negative, such action could have a material adverse effect on our costs and availability of funding, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, the trading price of our securities and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. debt and preferred equity investments could cause us to incur expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we held first mortgages, mezzanine loans, junior participations and preferred equity interests with an aggregate net book value of $2.3 billion at december 31, 2017 . some of these instruments may be recourse to their sponsors, while others are limited to the collateral securing the loan. in the event of a default under these obligations, we may have to take possession of the collateral securing these interests. borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against such enforcement and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce their obligations to us. declines in the value of the property may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our investment upon foreclosure or realization even if we make substantial improvements or repairs to the underlying real estate in order to maximize such property's investment potential. in addition, we may invest in mortgage-backed securities and other marketable securities. we maintain and regularly evaluate the need for reserves to protect against potential future losses. our reserves reflect management's judgment of the probability and severity of losses and the value of the underlying collateral. we cannot be certain that our judgment will prove to be correct and that our reserves will be adequate over time to protect against future losses because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific properties, assets, tenants, borrowers, industries in which our tenants and borrowers operate or markets in which our tenants and borrowers or their properties are located. as of december 31, 2017 , we had no recorded reserves for possible credit losses. if our reserves for credit losses prove inadequate, we could suffer losses which would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, the market prices of our securities and our ability to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. joint investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority and reliance upon a co-venturer's financial condition. we co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures, co-tenancies or other structures, and by acquiring non-controlling interests in, or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of, a property, partnership, joint venture, co-tenancy or other entity. therefore, we may not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding such property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. investments in partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities may involve risks not present were a third 17 table of contents party not involved, including the possibility that our partners, co-tenants or co-venturers might become bankrupt or otherwise fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. additionally, our partners or co-venturers might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals which are competitive or inconsistent with our business interests or goals. these investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions such as a sale, because neither we, nor the partner, co-tenant or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. in addition, we may in specific circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners, co-tenants or co-venturers. as of december 31, 2017 , we had an aggregate cost basis in these joint ventures totaling $2.4 billion . certain of our joint venture agreements contain terms in favor of our partners that could have an adverse effect on the value of our investments in the joint ventures. each of our joint venture agreements has been individually negotiated with our partner in the joint venture and, in some cases, we have agreed to terms that are more favorable to our partner in the joint venture than to us. for example, our partner may be entitled to a specified portion of the profits of the joint venture before we are entitled to any portion of such profits. we may also enter into similar arrangements in the future. these rights may permit our partner in a particular joint venture to obtain a greater benefit from the value or profits of the joint venture than us, which could have an adverse effect on the value of our investment in the joint venture and on our financial condition and results of operations. we may incur costs to comply with governmental laws and regulations. we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental and health and safety laws that can impose liability on current and former property owners or operators for the clean-up of certain hazardous substances released on a property or of contamination at any facility (e.g., a landfill) to which we have sent hazardous substances for treatment or disposal, without regard to fault or whether the release or disposal was in compliance with law. being held responsible for such a clean-up could result in significant cost to us and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our properties may be subject to risks relating to current or future laws, including laws benefiting disabled persons, such as the americans with disabilities act, or ada, and state or local zoning, construction or other regulations. compliance with such laws may require significant property modifications in the future, which could be costly and non-compliance could result in fines being levied against us in the future. such costs could have an adverse impact on our cash flows and ability to pay dividends to stockholders. our charter documents, debt instruments and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us, which could discourage takeover attempts and prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium over the market price of our stock. provisions of our charter and bylaws could inhibit changes in control. a change of control of our company could benefit stockholders by providing them with a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our stock. however, provisions contained in our charter and bylaws may delay or prevent a change in control of our company. these provisions, discussed more fully below, are: staggered board of directors; ownership limitations; and the board of directors' ability to issue additional common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval. our board of directors is currently staggered into three separate classes. our board of directors is currently divided into three classes, with directors in each such class serving staggered three year terms. the terms of the class i, class ii and class iii directors expire in 2018, 2019 and 2020, respectively. our staggered board may deter a change in control because of the increased time period necessary for a third-party to acquire control of the board. however, at our 2017 annual meeting of stockholders, held on june 1, 2017, our stockholders voted to declassify the board of directors. beginning with the 2018 annual meeting of stockholders, our board of directors will be elected for terms ending at the next annual meeting of stockholders following their election (rather than the third annual meeting following their election) and until their successors are duly elected and qualify. by the 2020 annual meeting of stockholders, our board of directors will be fully declassified. we have a stock ownership limit. to remain qualified as a reit for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of any taxable year. for this purpose, stock may be "owned" directly, as well as indirectly under certain constructive ownership rules, including, for example, rules that attribute stock held by one shareholder to another shareholder. in part to avoid violating this rule regarding stock ownership limitations and maintain our reit qualification, our charter prohibits ownership by any single stockholder of more than 9.0% in value or number of shares of our common stock. limitations on the ownership of preferred stock may also be imposed by us. 18 table of contents our board of directors has the discretion to raise or waive this limitation on ownership for any stockholder if deemed to be in our best interest. our board of directors has granted such waivers from time to time. to obtain a waiver, a stockholder must present the board and our tax counsel with evidence that ownership in excess of this limit will not affect our present or future reit status. absent any exemption or waiver, stock acquired or held in excess of the limit on ownership will be transferred to a trust for the exclusive benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary, and the stockholder's rights to distributions and to vote would terminate. the stockholder would be entitled to receive, from the proceeds of any subsequent sale of the shares transferred to the charitable trust, the lesser of: the price paid for the stock or, if the owner did not pay for the stock, the market price of the stock on the date of the event causing the stock to be transferred to the charitable trust; and the amount realized from the sale. this limitation on ownership of stock could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. maryland takeover statutes may prevent a change of control of our company, which could depress our stock price. under the maryland general corporation law, or the mgcl, "business combinations" between a maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. these business combinations include a merger, consolidation, stock exchange or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. an interested stockholder is defined as: any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation's outstanding voting stock; or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock of the corporation. a person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if the board of directors approves in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. after the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by the board of directors of the corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least: 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation, voting together as a single group; and two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder. the business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer, including potential acquisitions that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. in addition, maryland law provides that holders of "control shares" of a maryland corporation acquired in a "control share acquisition" will not have voting rights with respect to the control shares except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares of stock owned by the acquiror, by officers of the corporation or by directors who are employees of the corporation, under the maryland control share acquisition act. "control shares" means voting shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock owned by the acquiror or in respect of which the acquiror is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of voting power: (i) one-tenth or more but less than one-third; (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority; or (iii) a majority or more of all voting power. a "control share acquisition" means the acquisition of ownership of, or the power to direct the exercise of voting power with respect to, issued and outstanding control shares, subject to certain exceptions. we have opted out of these provisions of the mgcl, with respect to business combinations and control share acquisitions, by resolution of our board of directors and a provision in our bylaws, respectively. however, in the future, our board of directors may reverse its decision by resolution and elect to opt in to the mgcl's business combination provisions, or amend our bylaws and elect to opt in to the mgcl's control share provisions. additionally, the mgcl permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses, some of which have not been implemented by our board of directors. such takeover defenses, if implemented, may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making us an acquisition proposal or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with an opportunity to realize a premium over the then-current market price. 19 table of contents contractual provisions that limit the assumption of certain of our debt may prevent a change in control. certain of our consolidated debt is not assumable and may be subject to significant prepayment penalties. these limitations could deter a change in control of our company. compliance with changing or new regulations applicable to corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses, or affect our operations. changing or new laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including sec regulations and nyse rules, can create uncertainty for public companies. these changed or new laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity. as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. we are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. if our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. in particular, our continued efforts to comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors' audit of that assessment have required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. further, our directors, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. as a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified directors and executive officers, which could harm our business. future issuances of common stock, preferred stock and convertible debt could dilute existing stockholders' interests. our charter authorizes its board of directors to issue additional shares of common stock, preferred stock and convertible equity or debt without stockholder approval and without the requirement to offer rights of pre-emption to existing stockholders. any such issuance could dilute our existing stockholders' interests. also, any future series of preferred stock may have voting provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company. changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. as with other publicly traded equity securities, the value of our common stock depends on various market conditions, which may change from time to time. in addition to the current economic environment and future volatility in the securities and credit markets, the following market conditions may affect the value of our common stock: the general reputation of reits and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies; our financial performance; and general stock and bond market conditions. the market value of our common stock is based on a number of factors including, but not limited to, the market's perception of the current and future value of our assets, our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash dividends. consequently, our common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share of common stock. the trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. between january 1, 2017 and december 31, 2017 , the closing sale price of our common stock on the new york stock exchange, or the nyse, ranged from $94.15 to $113.75 per share. on february 22, 2018 , the closing sale price of our common stock on the nyse was $95.91 . our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as those described elsewhere in this "risk factors" section. additionally, the amount of our leverage may hinder the demand for our common stock, which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. equity issuances or buybacks by us or the perception that such issuances or buybacks may occur may also affect the market price of our common stock. we may in the future pay taxable dividends on our common stock in common stock and cash. in order to qualify as a reit, we are required to annually distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income, excluding net capital gain. in order to avoid taxation of our income, we are required to annually distribute to our stockholders all of our taxable income, including net capital gain. in order to satisfy these requirements, we may make distributions that are payable partly in cash and partly in shares of our common stock. if we pay such a dividend, taxable stockholders would be required to include the entire amount of the dividend, including the portion paid with shares of common stock, as income to the extent of 20 table of contents our current and accumulated earnings and profits, and may be required to pay income taxes with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash dividends received. we are dependent on external sources of capital. we need a substantial amount of capital to operate and grow our business. this need is exacerbated by the distribution requirements imposed on us for sl green to qualify as a reit. we therefore rely on third-party sources of capital, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. in addition, we anticipate raising money in the public equity and debt markets with some regularity and our ability to do so will depend upon the general conditions prevailing in these markets. at any time, conditions may exist which effectively prevent us, or reits in general, from accessing these markets. moreover, additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of our stockholders' interests, and additional debt financing may substantially increase our leverage. our property taxes could increase due to reassessment or property tax rate changes. we are required to pay real property taxes in respect of our properties and such taxes may increase as our properties are reassessed by taxing authorities or as property tax rates change. an increase in the assessed value of our properties or our property tax rates could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our security holders. we face potential conflicts of interest. there are potential conflicts of interest between us and stephen l. green. there is a potential conflict of interest relating to the disposition of certain property contributed to us by stephen l. green, and affiliated entities in our initial public offering. mr. green serves as the chairman of our board of directors and is an executive officer. if we sell a property in a transaction in which a taxable gain is recognized, for tax purposes the built-in gain would be allocated solely to him and not to us. as a result, mr. green has a conflict of interest if the sale of a property he contributed is in our best interest but not his. in addition, mr. green's tax basis includes his share of debt, including mortgage indebtedness, owed by the operating partnership. if the operating partnership were to retire such debt, then he would experience a decrease in his share of liabilities, which, for tax purposes, would be treated as a distribution of cash to him. to the extent the deemed distribution of cash exceeded his tax basis, he would recognize gain. as a result, mr. green has a conflict of interest if the refinancing of indebtedness is in our best interest but not his. members of management may have a conflict of interest over whether to enforce terms of agreements with entities which mr. green, directly or indirectly, has an affiliation. alliance building services, or alliance, and its affiliates are partially owned by gary green, a son of stephen l. green, the chairman of our board of directors, and provide services to certain properties owned by us. alliance's affiliates include first quality maintenance, l.p., or first quality, classic security llc, bright star couriers llc and onyx restoration works, and provide cleaning, extermination, security, messenger, and restoration services, respectively. in addition, first quality has the non-exclusive opportunity to provide cleaning and related services to individual tenants at our properties on a basis separately negotiated with any tenant seeking such additional services. the service corporation has entered into an arrangement with alliance whereby it will receive a profit participation above a certain threshold for services provided by alliance to certain tenants at certain buildings above the base services specified in their lease agreements. our company and our tenants accounted for 24.72% of alliance's 2017 estimated total revenue, based on information provided to us by alliance. while we believe that the contracts pursuant to which these services are provided were the result of arm's length negotiations, there can be no assurance that the terms of such agreements, or dealings between the parties during the performance of such agreements, will be as favorable to us as those which could be obtained from unaffiliated third parties providing comparable services under similar circumstances. sl green's failure to qualify as a reit would be costly and would have a significant effect on the value of our securities. we believe we have operated in a manner for sl green to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes and intend to continue to so operate. many of the reit compliance requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. the determination that sl green is a reit requires an analysis of factual matters and circumstances. these matters, some of which are not totally within our control, can affect sl green's qualification as a reit. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income must come from designated sources that are listed in the reit tax laws. we are also required to distribute to stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income excluding capital gains. the fact that we hold our assets through the operating partnership and its subsidiaries further complicates the application of the reit requirements. even a technical or inadvertent mistake could 21 table of contents jeopardize our reit status. furthermore, congress and the internal revenue service, or the irs, might make changes to the tax laws and regulations that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified as a reit. if sl green fails to qualify as a reit, the funds available for distribution to our stockholders would be substantially reduced as we would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to our stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates and we could be subject to the federal alternative minimum tax and possibly increased state and local taxes. also, unless the irs grants us relief under specific statutory provisions, sl green would remain disqualified as a reit for four years following the year in which sl green first failed to qualify. if sl green failed to qualify as a reit, sl green would have to pay significant income taxes and would therefore have less money available for investments, to service debt obligations or to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. this would have a significant adverse effect on the value of our securities. in addition, the reit tax laws would no longer obligate us to make any distributions to stockholders. as a result of all these factors, if sl green fails to qualify as a reit, this could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital changes to u.s. federal income tax laws could materially and adversely affect us and our stockholders. the recently enacted tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act'') makes substantial changes to the code. among those changes are a significant permanent reduction in the generally applicable corporate tax rate, changes in the taxation of individuals and other non-corporate taxpayers that generally but not universally reduce their taxes on a temporary basis subject to sunset'' provisions, the elimination or modification of various currently allowed deductions (including substantial limitations on the deductibility of interest and, in the case of individuals, the deduction for personal state and local taxes), and preferential rates of taxation on most ordinary reit dividends and certain business income derived by non-corporate taxpayers in comparison to other ordinary income recognized by such taxpayers. the tax act also imposes certain additional limitations on the deduction of net operating losses, which may in the future cause us to be required to make distributions that will be taxable to our stockholders to the extent of our current or accumulated earnings and profits in order to comply with the annual reit distribution requirements. the effect of these, and the many other, changes made in the tax act is highly uncertain, both in terms of their direct effect on the taxation of an investment in our common stock and their indirect effect on the value of our assets or market conditions generally. furthermore, many of the provisions of the tax act will require guidance through the issuance of treasury regulations in order to assess their effect. there may be a substantial delay before such regulations are promulgated, increasing the uncertainty as to the ultimate effect of the statutory amendments on us. it is also likely that there will be technical corrections legislation proposed with respect to the act this year, the effect of which cannot be predicted and may be adverse to us or our stockholders. additionally, the rules dealing with u.s. federal income taxation are continually under review by congress, the irs, and the u.s. department of the treasury. any such changes could have an adverse effect on an investment in our shares or on the market value or the resale potential of our assets. loss of our key personnel could harm our operations and our stock price. we are dependent on the efforts of marc holliday, our chief executive officer, and andrew w. mathias, our president. these officers have employment agreements which expire in january 2019 and december 2018, respectively. a loss of the services of either of these individuals could adversely affect our operations and could be negatively perceived by the market resulting in a decrease in our stock price. our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures or cyber security attacks. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to a number of risks including energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication failures and cyber attacks and intrusions, such as computer viruses, malware, attachments to e-mails, intrusion and unauthorized access, including from persons inside our organization or from persons outside our organization with access to our systems. the risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attacks and intrusions, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and instructions from around the world have increased. our systems are critical to the operation of our business and any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. we may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. although we make efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our systems and have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. any compromise of our security could also result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, loss or misuse of the information (which may be confidential, proprietary and/or commercially sensitive in nature) and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. 22 table of contents forward-looking statements may prove inaccurate. see item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations forward-looking information," for additional disclosure regarding forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 66 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk see item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market rate risk" for additional information regarding our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. the table below presents the principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of our debt obligations and debt and preferred equity investments and the weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates, including as-of-right extension options, as of december 31, 2017 (in thousands): long-term debt debt and preferred equity investments (1) fixed rate average interest rate variable rate average interest rate amount weighted yield 2018 $ 303,971 4.45 % $ 190,431 3.12 % $ 315,802 10.44 % (2) 2019 42,289 4.42 % 3.42 % 456,524 9.29 % 2020 678,018 4.11 % 275,000 3.49 % 156,072 9.83 % 2021 11,656 3.99 % 3.49 % 532,558 8.71 % 2022 1,008,003 4.00 % 3.63 % 527,204 9.24 % thereafter 2,256,623 4.26 % 1,140,000 4.14 % 125,881 8.31 % total $ 4,300,560 4.22 % $ 1,605,431 3.42 % $ 2,114,041 9.13 % (2) fair value $ 4,421,866 $ 1,612,224 (1) our debt and preferred equity investments had an estimated fair value ranging between $2.1 billion and $2.3 billion at december 31, 2017 . (2) excludes loans secured by the leasehold interest in 2 herald square which were in maturity default at the time of acquisition in april and may 2017. the loans were put on non-accrual in august 2017 when one of the investors in the borrower did not repay the loan notwithstanding the approval to do so rendered by a court in a litigation separate from the foreclosure. no impairment was recorded as the company believes that the fair value of the property exceeds the carrying amount of the loans. the loans had an outstanding balance including accrued interest of $259.3 million at the time that they were put on non accrual status. the table below presents the principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of our share of our joint venture debt obligations and the weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates as of december 31, 2017 (in thousands): long term debt fixed rate average interest rate variable rate average interest rate 2018 $ 12,491 4.04 % $ 187,759 3.74 % 2019 108,642 4.04 % 609,040 4.21 % 2020 13,584 4.04 % 460,225 4.63 % 2021 14,150 4.04 % 435,590 4.93 % 2022 223,299 3.99 % 31 5.00 % thereafter 2,009,097 3.88 % 110,384 4.63 % total $ 2,381,263 4.03 % $ 1,803,029 4.25 % fair value $ 2,344,362 $ 1,827,427 66 table of contents the table below lists our consolidated derivative instruments, which are hedging variable rate debt, and their related fair values as of december 31, 2017 (in thousands): asset hedged benchmark rate notional value strike rate effective date expiration date fair value interest rate swap credit facility libor $ 200,000 1.131 % july 2016 july 2023 $ 10,747 interest rate swap credit facility libor 100,000 1.161 % july 2016 july 2023 5,217 interest rate swap mortgage libor 21,394 12.000 % january 2017 january 2019 167 interest rate cap mortgage libor 137,500 4.000 % september 2017 september 2019 2 interest rate swap credit facility libor 100,000 1.928 % december 2017 november 2020 288 interest rate swap credit facility libor 100,000 1.934 % december 2017 november 2020 271 total consolidated hedges $ 16,692 in addition to these derivative instruments, some of our joint venture loan agreements require the joint venture to purchase interest rate caps on its debt. all such interest rate caps represented in aggregate an asset of $0.1 million at december 31, 2017 . we also swapped certain floating rate debt at some of our joint ventures. these swaps represented in aggregate an asset of $8.8 million at december 31, 2017 . 67 table of contentsrisk factors 12 item 1b . unresolved staff comments 23 item 2. properties 24 item 3. legal proceedings 32 item 4. mine safety disclosures 32 part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities 33 item 6. selected financial data - sl green realty corp. 35 selected financial data - sl green operating partnership, l.p. item 7 . management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations 39 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 65 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data 67 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure 138 item 9a. controls and procedures 138 item 9b. other information 142 part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance 143 item 11. executive compensation 143 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters 143 item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence 143 item 14. principal accounting fees and services 143 part iv item 15. exhibits, financial statements and schedules 144 signatures 150 table of contents part i item 1. business general sl green realty corp. is a self-managed real estate investment trust, or reit, engaged in the acquisition, development, ownership, management and operation of commercial and residential real estate properties, principally office properties, located in the new york metropolitan area. we were formed in june, 1997 for the purpose of continuing the commercial real estate business of s.l. green properties, inc., our predecessor entity. s.l. green properties, inc., which was founded in 1980 by stephen l. green, who serves as a member and the chairman emeritus of the company's board of directors, had been engaged in the business of owning, managing, leasing, and repositioning office properties in manhattan, a borough of new york city. reckson associates realty corp., or reckson, and reckson operating partnership, l.p., or rop, are wholly-owned subsidiaries of sl green realty corp. as of december 31, 2018 , we owned the following interests in properties in the new york metropolitan area, primarily in midtown manhattan. our investments located outside of manhattan are referred to as the suburban properties: consolidated unconsolidated total location property type number of properties approximate square feet number of properties approximate square feet number of properties approximate square feet weighted average occupancy (1) commercial: manhattan office 20 12,387,091 10 11,329,183 30 23,716,274 94.5 % retail 7 (2) 325,648 9 352,174 16 677,822 96.7 % development/redevelopment 5 486,101 2 347,000 7 833,101 54.1 % fee interest 1 1 % 32 13,198,840 22 12,028,357 54 25,227,197 93.2 % suburban office 13 2,295,200 13 2,295,200 91.3 % retail 1 52,000 1 52,000 100.0 % development/redevelopment 1 1,000 1 1,000 % 15 2,348,200 15 2,348,200 91.4 % total commercial properties 47 15,547,040 22 12,028,357 69 27,575,397 93.1 % residential: manhattan residential 2 (2) 445,105 10 2,156,751 12 2,601,856 91.5 % suburban residential % total residential properties 2 445,105 10 2,156,751 12 2,601,856 91.5 % total portfolio 49 15,992,145 32 14,185,108 81 30,177,253 92.9 % (1) the weighted average occupancy for commercial properties represents the total occupied square feet divided by total square footage at acquisition. the weighted average occupancy for residential properties represents the total occupied units divided by total available units. (2) as of december 31, 2018 , we owned a building at 315 west 33rd street, also known as the olivia, that was comprised of approximately 270,132 square feet of retail space and approximately 222,855 square feet of residential space. for the purpose of this report, we have included the building in the number of retail properties we own. however, we have included only the retail square footage in the retail approximate square footage, and have listed the balance of the square footage as residential square footage. as of december 31, 2018 , we also managed two office buildings owned by third parties encompassing approximately 2.1 million square feet, and held debt and preferred equity investments with a book value of $2.1 billion , including $0.1 billion of debt and preferred equity investments and other financing receivables that are included in balance sheet line items other than the debt and preferred equity investments line item. our corporate offices are located in midtown manhattan at 420 lexington avenue, new york, new york 10170. as of december 31, 2018 , we employed 1,058 employees, 310 of whom were employed in our corporate offices. we can be contacted at (212) 594-2700. we maintain a website at www.slgreen.com . on our website, you can obtain, free of charge, a copy of our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material electronically with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission, or the sec. we have also made available on our website our audit committee charter, compensation committee charter, nominating and corporate governance committee charter, 4 table of contents code of business conduct and ethics and corporate governance principles. we do not intend for information contained on our website to be part of this annual report on form 10-k. the sec maintains a website (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. unless the context requires otherwise, all references to the "company," "sl green," "we," "our" and "us" in this annual report means sl green realty corp., a maryland corporation, and one or more of its subsidiaries, including the operating partnership, or, as the context may require, sl green only or the operating partnership only, and "s.l. green properties" means s.l. green properties, inc., a new york corporation, as well as the affiliated partnerships and other entities through which stephen l. green historically conducted commercial real estate activities. corporate structure in connection with the company's initial public offering, or ipo, in august 1997, the operating partnership received a contribution of interests in real estate properties as well as a 95% economic, non-voting interest in the management, leasing and construction companies affiliated with s.l. green properties. we refer to these management, leasing and construction entities, which are owned by s.l. green management corp, as the "service corporation." the company is organized so as to qualify, and has elected to qualify as a reit, under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, or the code. substantially all of our assets are held by, and all of our operations are conducted through, the operating partnership. we are the sole managing general partner of the operating partnership, and as of december 31, 2018 , we owned 95.30% of its economic interests. all of the management and leasing operations with respect to our wholly-owned properties are conducted through sl green management llc, or management llc. the operating partnership owns a 100% interest in management llc. in order to maintain the company's qualification as a reit while realizing income from management, leasing and construction contracts with third parties and joint venture properties, all of these service operations are conducted through the service corporation, a consolidated variable interest entity. we, through our operating partnership, receive substantially all of the cash flow from the service corporation's operations. all of the voting common stock of the service corporation is held by an entity owned and controlled by stephen l. green, who serves as a member and as the chairman emeritus of the company's board of directors. business and growth strategies sl green is new york city's largest owner of office real estate and an investment-grade s&amp;p 500 company that is focused primarily on owning, managing and maximizing the value of manhattan commercial properties. our core business is the ownership of high quality commercial properties and our primary business objective is to maximize the total return to stockholders, through growth in net income attributable to common stockholders and funds from operations, or ffo, and through asset value appreciation. the commercial real estate expertise resulting from owning, operating, investing, developing, redeveloping and lending on real estate in manhattan for over 38 years has enabled us to invest in a collection of premier office and retail properties, selected multifamily residential assets, and high quality debt and preferred equity investments. we also own high quality commercial properties in the new york metropolitan area. we are led by a strong, experienced management team that provides a foundation of skills in all aspects of real estate, including acquisitions, dispositions, management, leasing, development, redevelopment, and financing. it is with this team that we have achieved a market leading position in our targeted submarkets. we seek to enhance the value of our company by executing strategies that include the following: leasing and property management, which capitalizes on our extensive presence and knowledge of the marketplaces in which we operate; acquiring office, retail and residential properties and employing our local market skills to reposition these assets to create incremental cash flow and capital appreciation; identifying properties well suited for development/redevelopment and maximizing the value of those properties through redevelopment or reconfiguration to match current workplace, retail and housing trends; investing in debt and preferred equity positions that generate consistently strong risk-adjusted returns, increase the breadth of our market insight, foster key market relationships and source potential future investment opportunities; executing dispositions through sales or joint ventures that harvest embedded equity which has been generated through management's value enhancing activities; and maintaining a prudently levered, liquid balance sheet with consistent access to diversified sources of property level and corporate capital. 5 table of contents leasing and property management we seek to capitalize on our management's extensive knowledge of manhattan and the new york metropolitan area and the needs of our tenants through proactive leasing and management programs, which include: (i) use of in-depth market experience resulting from managing and leasing tens of millions of square feet of office, retail and residential space since the company was founded; (ii) careful tenant management, which results in long average lease terms and a manageable lease expiration schedule; (iii) utilization of an extensive network of third-party brokers to supplement our in-house leasing team; (iv) use of comprehensive building management analysis and planning; and (v) a commitment to tenant satisfaction by providing high quality tenant services at competitive rental rates. property acquisitions we acquire core properties for long-term value appreciation and earnings growth. we also acquire non-core properties that are typically held for shorter periods during which we intend to create significant increases in value. this strategy has resulted in capital gains that increase our investment capital base. in implementing this strategy, we continually evaluate potential acquisition opportunities. these opportunities may come from new properties as well as acquisitions in which we already hold a joint venture interest or, from time to time, from our debt and preferred equity investments. through intimate knowledge of our markets we have developed an ability to source transactions with superior risk-adjusted returns by capturing off-market opportunities. in rising markets, we primarily seek to acquire strategic vacancies that provide the opportunity to take advantage of our exceptional leasing and repositioning capabilities to increase cash flow and property value. in stable or falling markets, we primarily target assets featuring credit tenancies with fully escalated in-place rents to provide cash flow stability near-term and the opportunity for increases over time. management's breadth of activities and expertise in new york city has also enabled us to identify and acquire retail properties in prime locations. combining our real estate skills and ability to attract premier tenants has resulted in transactions that have provided significant capital appreciation. this same market penetration has permitted us to grow a portfolio of high quality, well-located multifamily properties we believe that we have many advantages over our competitors in acquiring core and non-core properties, both directly and through our joint venture program that includes a predominance of high quality institutional investors. those advantages include: (i) senior management's average 31 years of experience leading a full-service, fully-integrated real estate company focused, primarily, on the manhattan market; (ii) the ability to offer tax-efficient structures to sellers through the exchange of ownership interests, including units in our operating partnership; and (iii) the ability to underwrite and close transactions on an expedited basis even when the transaction requires a complicated structure. property dispositions we continually evaluate our portfolio to identify those properties that are most likely to meet our long-term earnings and cash flow growth objectives and contribute to increasing portfolio value. properties that no longer meet our objectives are evaluated for sale, or in certain cases, joint venture to release equity created through management's value enhancement programs or to take advantage of attractive market valuations. we seek to efficiently deploy the capital proceeds generated from these dispositions into property acquisitions and debt and preferred equity investments that we expect will provide enhanced future capital gains and earnings growth opportunities. management may also elect to utilize the capital proceeds from these dispositions to repurchase shares of our common stock, repay existing indebtedness of the company or its subsidiaries, or increase cash liquidity. property repositioning our extensive knowledge of the markets in which we operate and our ability to efficiently plan and execute capital projects provide the expertise to enhance returns by repositioning properties that are underperforming. many of the properties we own or seek to acquire feature unique architectural design elements or other amenities and characteristics that can be appealing to tenants when fully exploited. our strategic investment in these properties, combined with our active management and pro-active leasing, provide the opportunity to creatively meet market needs and generate favorable returns. development / redevelopment our constant interactions with tenants and other market participants keep us abreast of innovations in workplace layout, store design and smart living. we leverage this information to identify properties primed for development or redevelopment to meet these demands and unlock value. the expertise and relationships that we have built from managing complex construction projects in new york city and its surrounding areas allow us to cost efficiently add new and renovated assets of the highest quality and desirability to our operating portfolio. 6 table of contents debt and preferred equity investments we invest in well-collateralized debt and preferred equity investments in the markets in which we operate, primarily new york city, that generate attractive yields. see note 5, "debt and preferred equity investments," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. knowledge of our markets and our leasing and asset management expertise provide underwriting capabilities that enable a highly educated assessment of risk and return. the benefits of this investment program, which has a carefully managed aggregate size, include the following: our typical investments provide high current returns at conservative exposure levels and, in certain cases, the potential for future capital gains. our expertise and operating capabilities provide both insight and operating skills that mitigate risk. in certain instances, these investments serve as a potential source of real estate acquisitions for us when a borrower seeks an efficient off-market transaction. ownership knows that we are fully familiar with the asset through our existing investment, and that we can close more efficiently and quickly than others. property owners may also provide us the opportunity to consider off-market transactions involving other properties because we have previously provided debt or preferred equity financing to them. these investments are concentrated in manhattan, which helps us gain market insight, awareness of upcoming investment opportunities and foster key relationships that may provide access to future investment opportunities. capital resources our objective is to maintain multiple sources of corporate and property level capital to obtain the most appropriate and lowest cost of capital. this objective is supported by: property operations that generally provide stable and growing cash flows through market cycles due to favorable supply/demand metrics in manhattan, long average lease terms, high credit quality tenants and superior leasing, operating and asset management skills; concentration of our activities in a manhattan market that is consistently attractive to property investors and lenders through market cycles relative to other markets; maintaining strong corporate liquidity and careful management of future debt maturities; and maintaining access to corporate capital markets through balanced financing and investment activities that result in strong balance sheet and cash flow metrics. manhattan office market overview manhattan is by far the largest office market in the united states containing more rentable square feet than the next four largest central business district office markets combined. the properties in our portfolio are primarily concentrated in some of manhattan's most prominent midtown locations. according to cushman and wakefield research services as of december 31, 2018, manhattan has a total office inventory of approximately 401.0 million square feet, including approximately 242.5 million square feet in midtown. we estimate that approximately 16.3 million square feet of new construction class-a buildings over 250,000 square feet will become available between 2019 and 2023 in manhattan, approximately 43.4% of which is pre-leased. we estimate that this increase is partially offset by approximately 4.4 million square feet which will be converted from office use to an alternative use. this will add only approximately 0.6% per year to manhattan's total inventory, net of conversions, over the next five years. while the addition of new supply to the manhattan office inventory is nominal relative to the size of the overall market, we view any additional supply as a positive to the manhattan office market given the older vintage of the majority of manhattan's office inventory and the desire of certain tenants to occupy new, high quality, efficient office space, which often isn't available in older vintage properties. in addition, manhattan's office inventory has only grown by approximately 3.4 million square feet over the last 25 years. general terms of leases in the manhattan markets leases entered into for space in manhattan typically contain terms that may not be contained in leases in other u.s. office markets. the initial term of leases entered into for space in manhattan is generally seven to fifteen years. tenants leasing space in excess of 10,000 square feet for an initial term of 10 years or longer often will negotiate an option to extend the term of the lease for one or two renewal periods, typically for a term of five years each. the base rent during the initial term often will provide for agreed-upon periodic increases over the term of the lease. base rent for renewal terms is most often based upon the then fair market rental value of the premises as of the commencement date of the applicable renewal term (generally determined by binding arbitration in the event the landlord and the tenant are unable to mutually agree upon the fair market value), though base rent for a renewal period may be set at 95% of the then fair market rent. very infrequently, leases may contain termination options whereby 7 table of contents a tenant can terminate the lease obligation before the lease expiration date upon payment of a penalty together with repayment of the unamortized portion of the landlord's transaction costs (e.g., brokerage commissions, free rent periods, tenant improvement allowances, etc.). in addition to base rent, a tenant will generally also pay its pro rata share of increases in real estate taxes and operating expenses for the building over a base year, which is typically the year during which the term of the lease commences, based upon the tenant's proportionate occupancy of the building. in some smaller leases (generally less than 10,000 square feet), in lieu of paying additional rent based upon increases in building operating expenses, base rent will be increased each year during the lease term by a set percentage on a compounding basis (though the tenant will still pay its pro rata share of increases in real estate taxes over a base year). tenants typically receive a free rent period following commencement of the lease term, which in some cases may coincide with the tenant's construction period. the landlord most often supplies electricity either on a sub-metered basis at the landlord's cost plus a fixed percentage or a rent inclusion basis (i.e., a fixed fee is added to the base rent for electricity, which amount may increase based upon increases in electricity rates or increases in electrical usage by the tenant). base building services, other than electricity, such as heat, air conditioning, freight elevator service during business hours and base building cleaning typically are provided at no additional cost, but are included in the building's operating expenses. the tenant will typically pay additional rent only for services which exceed base building services or for services which are provided other than during normal business hours. in a typical lease for a new tenant renting in excess of 10,000 square feet, the landlord will deliver the premises with existing improvements demolished. in such instances, the landlord will typically provide a tenant improvement allowance, which is a fixed sum that the landlord makes available to the tenant to reimburse the tenant for all or a portion of the tenant's initial construction of its premises. such sum typically is payable as work progresses, upon submission by the tenant of invoices for the cost of construction and lien waivers. however, in certain leases (most often for relatively small amounts of space), the landlord will construct the premises for the tenant at a cost to the landlord not to exceed an agreed upon amount with the tenant paying any amount in excess of the agreed upon amount. in addition, landlords may rent space to a tenant that is "pre-built" (i.e., space that was constructed by the landlord in advance of lease signing and is ready to for the tenant to move in with the tenant selecting paint and carpet colors). occupancy the following table sets forth the weighted average occupancy rates at our office properties based on space leased for properties owned by us as of december 31, 2018 : percent occupied as of december 31, property 2018 2017 same-store properties (1) - manhattan 93.7% 93.8% same-store properties (1) - suburban 91.3% 92.3% manhattan properties 94.5% 93.8% suburban properties 91.3% 92.3% unconsolidated joint venture properties 95.4% 96.8% portfolio 94.2% 93.7% (1) same-store properties represents all operating properties owned by us at january 1, 2017 and still owned by us in the same manner at december 31, 2018 , which totaled 40 of our 49 consolidated operating properties. rent growth we are constantly evaluating our schedule of future lease expirations to mitigate occupancy risk while maximizing rent growth. we proactively manage future lease expirations based on our view of estimated current and future market asking rents. the following table sets forth our future lease expirations, excluding triple net leases, and management's estimates of market asking rents. taking rents are typically lower than asking rents and may vary from building to building. there can be no assurances that our estimates of market rents are accurate or that market rents currently prevailing will not erode or outperform in the future. 8 table of contents annual lease expirations - manhattan operating properties consolidated properties joint venture properties year of lease expiration number of expiring leases (2) rentable square footage of expiring leases percentage of total sq. ft. annualized cash rent of expiring leases annualized cash rent per square foot of expiring leases $/psf (3) current weighted average asking rent $/psf (4) number of expiring leases (2) rentable square footage of expiring leases percentage of total sq. ft. annualized cash rent of expiring leases annualized cash rent per square foot of expiring leases $/psf (3) current weighted average asking rent $/psf (4) 2018 (1) 9 22,898 0.19 % $1,536,831 $67.12 $100.62 5 16,730 0.15 % $1,523,868 $91.09 $72.67 1st quarter 2019 13 85,157 0.70 % $6,046,396 $71.00 $73.38 2 202,722 1.82 % $16,897,788 $83.35 $84.78 2nd quarter 2019 20 64,365 0.53 % 5,505,414 85.53 97.18 7 42,193 0.38 % 3,638,127 86.23 80.68 3rd quarter 2019 9 97,569 0.80 % 7,135,581 73.13 72.75 10 82,738 0.74 % 5,586,862 67.52 77.19 4th quarter 2019 30 618,102 5.06 % 48,040,655 77.72 69.10 6 32,098 0.29 % 2,992,213 93.22 109.60 total 2018 72 865,193 7.09 % $66,728,046 $77.13 $72.02 25 359,751 3.23 % $29,114,990 $80.93 $84.77 2020 92 2,272,494 18.60 % $152,163,212 $66.96 $70.30 23 249,004 2.24 % $17,756,290 $71.31 $74.82 2021 105 1,191,293 9.75 % 72,109,224 60.53 67.51 32 932,426 8.39 % 69,555,534 74.60 75.30 2022 90 1,048,783 8.58 % 72,400,832 69.03 76.61 33 348,017 3.13 % 39,195,339 112.62 119.29 2023 73 853,016 6.98 % 52,668,025 61.74 65.76 18 459,849 4.14 % 38,188,805 83.05 79.56 2024 35 299,349 2.45 % 21,359,670 71.35 74.12 24 1,031,059 9.27 % 101,559,921 98.50 85.98 2025 36 554,077 4.54 % 53,524,504 96.60 90.02 12 497,458 4.47 % 39,844,313 80.10 83.70 2026 30 788,512 6.45 % 51,612,141 65.46 68.45 17 480,419 4.32 % 49,691,923 103.43 109.48 2027 38 578,686 4.74 % 44,650,725 77.16 73.01 17 310,167 2.79 % 26,193,603 84.45 91.44 thereafter 91 3,743,016 30.63 % 223,926,495 59.83 67.40 55 6,434,692 57.87 % 416,251,258 64.69 81.74 671 12,217,317 100.00 % $812,679,705 $66.52 $70.54 261 11,119,572 100.00 % $828,875,844 $74.54 $84.16 annual lease expirations - suburban operating properties consolidated properties joint venture properties year of lease expiration number of expiring leases (2) rentable square footage of expiring leases percentage of total sq. ft. annualized cash rent of expiring leases annualized cash rent per square foot of expiring leases $/psf (3) current weighted average asking rent $/psf (4) number of expiring leases (2) rentable square footage of expiring leases percentage of total sq. ft. annualized cash rent of expiring leases annualized cash rent per square foot of expiring leases $/psf (3) current weighted average asking rent $/psf (4) 2018 (1) 9 71,273 3.64 % $2,709,023 $38.01 $38.17 % $ $ $ 1st quarter 2019 7 21,566 1.10 % $719,937 $33.38 $39.86 % $ $ $ 2nd quarter 2019 7 19,083 0.97 % 668,151 35.01 36.57 % 3rd quarter 2019 10 34,713 1.77 % 1,120,499 32.28 37.28 % 4th quarter 2019 6 172,242 8.79 % 5,122,185 29.74 27.92 % total 2018 30 247,604 12.63 % $7,630,772 $30.82 $30.94 % $ $ $ 2020 37 248,056 12.66 % $9,125,479 $36.79 $37.58 % $ $ $ 2021 38 272,678 13.91 % 10,079,197 36.96 37.16 % 2022 28 126,582 6.46 % 5,004,423 39.54 39.05 % 2023 25 159,769 8.15 % 5,631,282 35.25 35.14 % 2024 8 49,924 2.55 % 1,634,598 32.74 32.02 % 2025 9 87,449 4.46 % 2,945,942 33.69 35.08 % 2026 16 258,795 13.20 % 9,313,444 35.99 36.96 % 2027 5 190,387 9.71 % 4,852,149 25.49 27.42 % thereafter 16 247,434 12.63 % 6,970,040 28.17 28.64 % 221 1,959,951 100.00 % $65,896,349 $33.62 $34.15 % $ $ $ (1) includes month to month holdover tenants that expired prior to december 31, 2018. (2) tenants may have multiple leases. (3) represents in place annualized rent allocated by year of expiration. (4) management's estimate of current average asking rents for currently occupied space as of december 31, 2018. taking rents are typically lower than asking rents and may vary from property to property. industry segments the company is a reit that is engaged in the acquisition, development, ownership, management and operation of commercial and residential real estate properties, principally office properties, located in the new york metropolitan area and has two reportable segments: real estate and debt and preferred equity investments. our industry segments are discussed in note 21, "segment information," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. at december 31, 2018 , our real estate portfolio was primarily located in one geographical market, the new york metropolitan area. the primary sources of revenue are generated from tenant rents and escalations and reimbursement revenue. real estate property operating expenses consist primarily of cleaning, security, maintenance, utility costs, real estate taxes and, at certain properties, ground rent expense. as of december 31, 2018 , one tenant in our office portfolio contributed 8.2% of our share of 9 table of contents annualized cash rent. no other tenant contributed more than 5.0% of our share of annualized cash rent. no property contributed in excess of 10.0% of our consolidated total revenue for 2018 . at december 31, 2018 , we held debt and preferred equity investments with a book value of $2.1 billion , including $0.1 billion of debt and preferred equity investments and other financing receivables that are included in balance sheet line items other than the debt and preferred equity investments line item. at december 31, 2018 , the assets underlying our debt and preferred equity investments were located in the new york metropolitan area. the primary sources of revenue are generated from interest and fee income. employees at december 31, 2018 , we employed 1,058 employees, 310 of whom were employed in our corporate offices. there are currently six collective bargaining agreements which cover the workforce that services substantially all of our properties. highlights from 2018 our significant achievements from 2018 included: corporate repurchased 9.7 million shares of our common stock under our share repurchase program at an average price of $96.22 per share and increased the size of our share repurchase program by $1 billion to $2.5 billion. through december 31, 2018 we have repurchased a cumulative total of 18.1 million shares of our common stock under the program at an average price of $98.72 per share. leasing signed 180 manhattan office leases covering approximately 2.3 million square feet. the mark-to-market on signed manhattan office leases was 6.5% higher in 2018 than the previously fully escalated rents on the same spaces. signed 49 suburban office leases covering approximately 0.4 million square feet. the mark-to-market on signed suburban office leases was 3.7% lower in 2019 than the previously fully escalated rents on the same spaces. reached 52% leased at one vanderbilt avenue after signing leases with greenberg traurig, the carlyle group, td securities, mfa financial inc. and mcdermott will &amp; emery signed a new lease with coty inc. for 10,040 square feet at the retail flagship development 719 seventh avenue, now known as 30 times square. signed a new retail lease with sports brand puma for 24,000 square feet and a new lease with wework for 138,563 square feet, comprising the entire office portion of the building, at 609 fifth avenue. acquisitions took ownership of the leasehold interest at 2 herald square following the foreclosure of the asset and subsequently completed a recapitalization of the asset, which included securing $150.0 million of mortgage financing and selling a 49.0% interest in the property. announced that we had entered into an agreement to purchase a majority and controlling interest in 460 west 34th street at a gross purchase price of $440 million. took possession of the retail co-op at 133 greene street in soho. the 6,425 square foot retail space, inclusive of 3,300 square feet on grade, is located along one of soho's most popular shopping corridors and is currently occupied by dior homme. this property previously served as collateral for a debt and preferred equity investment and was acquired through a negotiated transaction with the sponsor of the investment. took possession of 712 madison avenue on manhattan's upper east side. the five-story building offers 6,362 square feet of retail space, which is currently occupied by david yurman. this property previously served as collateral for a debt and preferred equity investment and was acquired through a negotiated transaction with the sponsor of the investment. dispositions closed on the sale of 600 lexington avenue for a gross asset valuation of $305.0 million. closed on the sale of an additional 13% interest in 1515 broadway, thereby completing the previously announced sale of interests totaling 43% at a gross asset valuation of $1.950 billion. together with our joint venture partner, closed on the sale of the multi-family property at 1274 fifth avenue at a gross asset valuation of $44.1 million 10 table of contents together with our joint venture partners, closed on the sale of stonehenge village, at a gross asset valuation of $287.0 million. closed on a multi-faceted retail transaction, which included the sale of substantially all of the company's interest in 724 fifth avenue to its joint venture partner, redemption of its investment in 720 fifth avenue, and partial repayment of another partnership loan. together with our joint venture partner, closed on the sale of the leasehold office condominium at 1745 broadway for a sale price of $633 million closed on the sale of the fee interest at 635 madison avenue for a sale price of $153.0 million. closed on the sale of reckson executive park in rye brook, new york, 115-117 stevens avenue, in valhalla, new york and our 11.7% interest in jericho plaza for asset valuations totaling $184.4 million. closed on the sale of our 48.9% interest in 3 columbus circle to the moinian group, the owner of the remaining 51.1% interest, for a gross asset valuation of $851.0 million closed on the sale of our interests in 1231 third avenue and an upper east side residential assemblage for a combined sales price of $143.8 million. entered into an agreement to sell our 20.0% interest in 131-137 spring street to invesco real estate, the owner of the remaining 80.0% interest. debt and preferred equity investments originated and retained, or acquired, $1.0 billion in debt and preferred equity investments, inclusive of advances under future funding obligations, discount and fee amortization, and paid-in-kind interest, net of premium amortization, and recorded $1.0 billion of proceeds from sales, repayments and participations. finance issued $350.0 million aggregate principal amount of floating rate notes due 2021. the notes are callable by the company, at par, after one year and bear interest at a floating rate of 0.98% over libor. closed on a $65.6 million financing of 115 spring street. the new mortgage has a 5-year term and bears interest at a floating rate of 3.40% over libor. refinanced one vanderbilt avenue's construction facility, increasing the facility size from $1.5 billion to $1.75 billion and decreasing the interest rate by 75 basis points to 2.75% over libor. closed on a $225.0 million construction facility for 185 broadway. the floating rate facility has a term of three years, with two one-year extension options and bears interest at an initial floating rate of 2.85% over libor. 11 table of contents item 1a. risk factors declines in the demand for office space in the new york metropolitan area, and in particular midtown manhattan, could adversely affect the value of our real estate portfolio and our results of operations and, consequently, our ability to service current debt and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. the majority of our property holdings are comprised of commercial office properties located in midtown manhattan. our property holdings also include a number of retail properties and multifamily residential properties. as a result of the concentration of our holdings, our business is dependent on the condition of the new york metropolitan area economy in general and the market for office space in midtown manhattan in particular. future weakness and uncertainty in the new york metropolitan area economy could materially reduce the value of our real estate portfolio and our rental revenues, and thus adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service current debt and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. we may be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases expire. if tenants decide not to renew their leases upon expiration, we may not be able to relet the space. even if tenants do renew or we can relet the space, the terms of a renewal or new lease, taking into account among other things, the cost of improvements to the property and leasing commissions, may be less favorable than the terms in the expired leases. as of december 31, 2018 , approximately 52.1% and approximately 21.3% of the rentable square feet, are scheduled to expire by december 31, 2023 at our consolidated properties and unconsolidated joint venture properties, respectively, and as of december 31, 2018 , these leases had annualized escalated rent totaling $457.8 million and $195.3 million , respectively. in addition, changes in space utilization by tenants may impact our ability to renew or relet space without the need to incur substantial costs in renovating or redesigning the internal configuration of the relevant property. if we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet the space at similar rates or if we incur substantial costs in renewing or reletting the space, our cash flow and ability to service debt obligations and pay dividends and distributions to security holders could be adversely affected. we face significant competition for tenants. the leasing of real estate is highly competitive. the principal competitive factors are rent, location, services provided and the nature and condition of the property to be leased. we directly compete with all owners, developers and operators of similar space in the areas in which our properties are located. our commercial office properties are concentrated in highly developed areas of the new york metropolitan area. manhattan is the largest office market in the united states. the number of competitive office properties in the new york metropolitan area, which may be newer or better located than our properties, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease office space at our properties, and on the effective rents we are able to charge. the expiration of long term leases or operating sublease interests where we do not own a fee interest in the land could adversely affect our results of operations. our interests in 420 lexington avenue, 461 fifth avenue, 711 third avenue, 625 madison avenue, 1185 avenue of the americas, 1080 amsterdam avenue, 650 fifth avenue, 2 herald square, and 30 east 40th street, all in manhattan, and 1055 washington avenue, stamford, connecticut, are entirely or partially comprised of either long-term leasehold or operating sublease interests in the land and the improvements, rather than by ownership of fee interest in the land. we have the ability to acquire the fee positions at 461 fifth avenue and 2 herald square for fixed prices on specific dates and own 50% of the fee position at 711 third avenue. the average remaining term of these long-term leases as of december 31, 2018 , including our unilateral extension rights on each of the properties, is 42 years. pursuant to the leasehold arrangements, we, as tenant under the operating sublease, perform the functions traditionally performed by landlords with respect to our subtenants. we are responsible for not only collecting rent from our subtenants, but also maintaining the property and paying expenses relating to the property. annualized cash rents, including our share of joint venture annualized cash rents, from properties held through long-term leases or operating sublease interests at december 31, 2018 totaled $321.3 million , or 23.7% , of our share of total portfolio annualized cash rent. unless we purchase a fee interest in the underlying land or extend the terms of these leases prior to expiration, we will lose our right to operate these properties upon expiration of the leases, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. rent payments under leasehold or operating sublease interests are adjusted, within the parameters of the contractual arrangements, at certain intervals. rent adjustments may result in higher rents that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. we rely on five large properties for a significant portion of our revenue. five of our properties, 11 madison avenue, 1185 avenue of the americas, 420 lexington avenue, 1515 broadway, and 1 madison avenue accounted for 32.4% of our portfolio annualized cash rent, which includes our share of joint venture annualized cash rent, as of december 31, 2018 . 12 table of contents our revenue and cash available to service debt obligations and for distribution to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected if any of these properties were materially damaged or destroyed. additionally, our revenue and cash available to service debt obligations and for distribution to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected if tenants at these properties fail to timely make rental payments due to adverse financial conditions or otherwise, default under their leases or file for bankruptcy or become insolvent. our results of operations rely on major tenants and insolvency or bankruptcy of these or other tenants could adversely affect our results of operations. giving effect to leases in effect as of december 31, 2018 for consolidated properties and unconsolidated joint venture properties, as of that date, our five largest tenants, based on annualized cash rent, accounted for 17.5% of our share of portfolio annualized cash rent, with one tenant, credit suisse securities (usa) llc, accounting for 8.2% of our share of portfolio annualized cash rent, respectively. our business and results of operations would be adversely affected if any of our major tenants became insolvent, declared bankruptcy, or otherwise refused to pay rent in a timely fashion or at all. in addition, if business conditions in the industries in which our tenants are concentrated deteriorate, or economic volatility has a disproportionate impact on our clients, we may experience increases in past due accounts, defaults, lower occupancy and reduced effective rents across tenants in such industries, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. construction is in progress at our development projects the company continues its significant ground-up development project, one vanderbilt, as well as other smaller development projects. construction of one vanderbilt is expected to be completed in 2020. at this or other development projects, unforeseen matters could delay completion, result in increased costs or otherwise have a material effect on our results of operations. in addition, the extended time frame to complete these projects could cause them to be subject to shifts and trends in the real estate market which may not be consistent with our current business plans for the properties. we are subject to risks that affect the retail environment. approximately 6.1% of our portfolio annualized cash rent is generated by retail properties, principally in manhattan. as a result, we are subject to risks that affect the retail environment generally, including the level of consumer spending and preferences, consumer confidence, electronic retail competition and levels of tourism in manhattan. these factors could adversely affect the financial condition of our retail tenants and the willingness of retailers to lease space in our retail properties, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. adverse economic and geopolitical conditions in general and the commercial office markets in particular could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and, consequently, our ability to service debt obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. our business may be affected by volatility in the financial and credit markets and other market, economic, or political challenges experienced by the u.s. economy or the real estate industry as a whole, including changes in law and policy and uncertainty in connection with any such changes. future periods of economic weakness or volatility could result in reduced access to credit and/or wider credit spreads. economic or political uncertainty, including concern about growth and the stability of the markets generally and changes in the federal interest rates, may lead many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide funding to borrowers, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our tenants. specifically, our business may be affected by the following conditions: significant job losses or declining rates of job creation which may decrease demand for our office space, causing market rental rates and property values to be negatively impacted; our ability to borrow on terms and conditions that we find acceptable may be limited, which could reduce our ability to pursue acquisition and development opportunities and refinance existing debt, reducing our returns from both our existing operations and our acquisition and development activities and increasing our future interest expense; and reduced values of our properties, which may limit our ability to dispose of assets at attractive prices or to obtain debt financing secured by our properties and may reduce the availability of unsecured loans. leasing office space to smaller and growth-oriented businesses could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. some of the tenants in our properties are smaller, growth-oriented businesses that may not have the financial strength of larger corporate tenants. smaller companies generally experience a higher rate of failure than larger businesses. growth-oriented firms may also seek other office space as they develop. leasing office space to these companies could create a higher risk of tenant defaults, turnover and bankruptcies, which could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. 13 table of contents we may suffer adverse consequences if our revenues decline since our operating costs do not necessarily decline in proportion to our revenue. we earn a significant portion of our income from renting our properties. our operating costs, however, do not necessarily fluctuate in direct proportion to changes in our rental revenue. as a result, our costs will not necessarily decline even if our revenues do. in such event, we may be forced to borrow to cover our costs, we may incur losses or we may not have cash available to service our debt and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. competition for acquisitions may reduce the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and increase the costs of those acquisitions. we may acquire properties when we are presented with attractive opportunities. we may face competition for acquisition opportunities from other investors, particularly those investors who are willing to incur more leverage, and this competition may adversely affect us by subjecting us to the following risks: an inability to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well-capitalized real estate investors, including publicly traded and privately held reits, private real estate funds, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, pension trusts, partnerships and individual investors; and an increase in the purchase price for such acquisition property. if we are unable to successfully acquire additional properties, our ability to grow our business could be adversely affected. in addition, increases in the cost of acquisition opportunities could adversely affect our results of operations. we face risks associated with property acquisitions. our acquisition activities may not be successful if we are unable to meet required closing conditions or unable to finance acquisitions and developments of properties on favorable terms or at all. additionally, we have less visibility into the future performance of acquired properties than properties that we have owned for a period of time, and therefore, recently acquired properties may not be as profitable as our existing portfolio. further, we may acquire properties subject to both known and unknown liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse to the seller. as a result, if a liability were asserted against us arising from our ownership of those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. unknown liabilities with respect to properties acquired might include: claims by tenants, vendors or other persons arising from dealing with the former owners of the properties; liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties; and liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination. limitations on our ability to sell or reduce the indebtedness on specific properties could adversely affect the value of our common stock. in connection with past and future acquisitions of interests in properties, we have or may agree to restrictions on our ability to sell or refinance the acquired properties for certain periods. these limitations could result in us holding properties which we would otherwise sell, or prevent us from paying down or refinancing existing indebtedness, any of which may have adverse consequences on our business and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 14 table of contents potential losses may not be covered by insurance. we maintain all-risk property and rental value coverage (including coverage regarding the perils of flood, earthquake and terrorism, excluding nuclear, biological, chemical, and radiological terrorism ("nbcr")), within three property insurance programs and liability insurance. separate property and liability coverage may be purchased on a stand-alone basis for certain assets, such as the development of one vanderbilt. additionally, one of our captive insurance companies, belmont insurance company, or belmont, provides coverage for nbcr terrorist acts above a specified trigger. belmont's retention is reinsured by our other captive insurance company, ticonderoga insurance company ("ticonderoga"). if belmont or ticonderoga are required to pay a claim under our insurance policies, we would ultimately record the loss to the extent of required payments. however, there is no assurance that in the future we will be able to procure coverage at a reasonable cost. further, if we experience losses that are uninsured or that exceed policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties as well as the anticipated future cash flows from those properties. additionally, our debt instruments contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance and we could default under debt our instruments if the cost and/or availability of certain types of insurance make it impractical or impossible to comply with such covenants relating to insurance. belmont and ticonderoga provide coverage solely on properties owned by the company or its affiliates. furthermore, with respect to certain of our properties, including properties held by joint ventures, or subject to triple net leases, insurance coverage is obtained by a third-party and we do not control the coverage. while we may have agreements with such third parties to maintain adequate coverage and we monitor these policies, such coverage ultimately may not be maintained or adequately cover our risk of loss. the occurrence of a terrorist attack may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to generate cash flow. our operations are primarily concentrated in the new york metropolitan area. in the aftermath of a terrorist attack or other acts of terrorism or war, tenants in the new york metropolitan area may choose to relocate their business to less populated, lower-profile areas of the united states that those tenants believe are not as likely to be targets of future terrorist activity. in addition, economic activity could decline as a result of terrorist attacks or other acts of terrorism or war, or the perceived threat of such acts. each of these impacts could in turn trigger a decrease in the demand for space in the new york metropolitan area, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease our properties on less favorable terms. while under the terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization act of 2015, insurers must make terrorism insurance available under their property and casualty insurance policies, this legislation does not regulate the pricing of such insurance. the absence of affordable terrorism insurance coverage may adversely affect the general real estate lending market, lending volume and the market's overall liquidity and, in the event of an uninsured loss, we could lose all or a portion of our assets. furthermore, we may also experience increased costs in relation to security equipment and personnel. as a result, the value of our properties and our results of operations could materially decline. we face possible risks associated with the natural disasters and the physical effects of climate change. we are subject to risks associated with natural disasters and the physical effects of climate change, which can include storms, hurricanes and flooding, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations and business. to the extent climate change causes changes in weather patterns, our markets could experience increases in storm intensity and rising sea-levels. over time, these conditions could result in declining demand for office space in our buildings or the inability of us to operate the buildings at all. climate change may also have indirect effects on our business by increasing the cost of (or making unavailable) property insurance on terms we find acceptable, increasing the cost of energy at our properties and requiring us to expend funds as we seek to repair and protect our properties against such risks. there can be no assurance that climate change will not have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations or business. we depend on dividends and distributions from our direct and indirect subsidiaries. substantially all of our assets are held through subsidiaries of our operating partnership. our operating partnership's cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to it by its subsidiaries, and in turn, substantially all of our cash flow is dependent on cash distributions to us by our operating partnership. the creditors of each of our direct and indirect subsidiaries are entitled to payment of that subsidiary's obligations to them, when due and payable, before distributions may be made by that subsidiary to its equity holders. therefore, our operating partnership's ability to make distributions to holders of its partnership units depends on its subsidiaries' ability first to satisfy their obligations to their creditors and then to make distributions to our operating partnership. likewise, our ability to pay dividends to holders of common stock and preferred stock depends on our operating partnership's ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions payable to holders of preferred units and then to make distributions to us. furthermore, the holders of preferred partnership units of our operating partnership are entitled to receive preferred distributions before payment of distributions to holders of common units of our operating partnership, including us. thus, our 15 table of contents ability to pay cash dividends to our shareholders and satisfy our debt obligations depends on our operating partnership's ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions to holders of its preferred partnership units and then to holders of its common units, including us. in addition, our participation in any distribution of the assets of any of our direct or indirect subsidiaries upon any liquidation, reorganization or insolvency is only after the claims of the creditors, including trade creditors and preferred security holders, are satisfied. debt financing, financial covenants, degree of leverage, and increases in interest rates could adversely affect our economic performance. scheduled debt payments could adversely affect our results of operations. cash flow could be insufficient to pay dividends and meet the payments of principal and interest required under our current mortgages, our 2017 credit facility, our senior unsecured notes, our debentures and indebtedness outstanding at our joint venture properties. the total principal amount of our outstanding consolidated indebtedness was $5.5 billion as of december 31, 2018 , consisting of $1.5 billion in unsecured bank term loans (or "term loan a" and "term loan b"), $1.5 billion under our senior unsecured notes, $0.1 billion of junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures, $2.0 billion of non-recourse mortgages and loans payable on certain of our properties and debt and preferred equity investments, $500.0 million drawn under our revolving credit facility, and $11.8 million letters of credit. in addition, we could increase the amount of our outstanding consolidated indebtedness in the future, in part by borrowing under the revolving credit facility portion of our 2017 credit facility. as of december 31, 2018 , the total principal amount of non-recourse indebtedness outstanding at the joint venture properties was $9.1 billion , of which our proportionate share was $3.8 billion . as of december 31, 2018 , we had no recourse indebtedness outstanding at our unconsolidated joint venture properties. if we are unable to make payments under our 2017 credit facility, all amounts due and owing at such time shall accrue interest at a rate equal to 2% higher than the rate at which each draw was made. if we are unable to make payments under our senior unsecured notes, the principal and unpaid interest will become immediately payable. if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property, resulting in loss of income and asset value. foreclosure on mortgaged properties or an inability to make payments under our 2017 credit facility or our senior unsecured notes could trigger defaults under the terms of our other financings, making such financings at risk of being declared immediately payable, and would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to refinance existing indebtedness, which may require substantial principal payments at maturity. $27.5 million of consolidated mortgage debt and $102.8 million of unconsolidated joint venture debt is scheduled to mature in 2019 after giving effect to repayments and refinancing of consolidated and joint venture debt between december 31, 2018 and february 25, 2019 as discussed in the "financial statements and supplementary data" section. at the present time, we intend to repay, refinance, or exercise extension options on the debt associated with our properties on or prior to their respective maturity dates. at the time of refinancing, prevailing interest rates or other factors, such as the possible reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans, may result in higher interest rates. increased interest expense on the extended or refinanced debt would adversely affect cash flow and our ability to service debt obligations and pay dividends and distributions to security holders. if any principal payments due at maturity cannot be repaid, refinanced or extended, our cash flow will not be sufficient to repay maturing or accelerated debt. financial covenants could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. the mortgages and mezzanine loans on our properties generally contain customary negative covenants that limit our ability to further mortgage the properties, to enter into material leases without lender consent or materially modify existing leases, among other things. in addition, our 2017 credit facility and senior unsecured notes contain restrictions and requirements on our method of operations. our 2017 credit facility and our unsecured notes also require us to maintain designated ratios, including but not limited to, total debt-to-assets, debt service coverage and unencumbered assets-to-unsecured debt. these restrictions could adversely affect operations (including reducing our flexibility and our ability to incur additional debt), our ability to pay debt obligations and our ability to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. rising interest rates could adversely affect our cash flow. advances under our 2017 credit facility and certain property-level mortgage debt bear interest at a variable rate. our consolidated variable rate borrowings totaled $2.0 billion at december 31, 2018 . in addition, we could increase the amount of our outstanding variable rate debt in the future, in part by borrowing additional amounts under our 2017 credit facility. borrowings under our revolving credit facility and term loans bore interest at the 30-day libor, plus spreads of 100 basis points, 110 basis points, and 165 basis points, respectively, at december 31, 2018 . as of december 31, 2018 , borrowings under our term loans and junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures totaled $1.5 billion and $100.0 million , respectively. we may incur indebtedness in the future that also bears interest at a variable rate or may be required to refinance our debt at higher rates. at december 31, 2018 , a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates across each of our variable interest rate instruments, including our 16 table of contents variable rate debt and preferred equity investments which mitigate our exposure to interest rate changes, would increase our net annual interest costs by $7.1 million and would increase our share of joint venture annual interest costs by $14.3 million . our joint ventures may also incur variable rate debt and face similar risks. accordingly, increases in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial conditions and our ability to continue to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. the potential phasing out of libor after 2021 may affect our financial results. the chief executive of the united kingdom financial conduct authority ("fca"), which regulates libor, has announced that the fca intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of libor after 2021. it is not possible to predict the effect of these changes or the establishment of alternative reference rates. the alternative reference rate committee ("arrc"), a committee convened by the federal reserve that includes major market participants, and on which the sec staff and other regulators participate, has proposed an alternative rate to replace u.s. dollar libor, the secured overnight financing rate ( sofr ). any changes announced by the fca, arrc, other regulators or any other successor governance or oversight body, or future changes adopted by such body, in the method pursuant to which u.s. dollar libor, sofr, or any other alternative rates are determined may result in a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in the reported libor rates. if that were to occur, the levels of interest payments we incur and interest payments we receive may change. in addition, although certain of our libor based obligations and investments provide for alternative methods of calculating the interest rate if libor is not reported, uncertainty as to the extent and manner of future changes may result in interest rates and/or payments that are higher than, lower than or that do not otherwise correlate over time with the interest rates and/or payments that would have been made on our obligations if libor rate was available in its current form. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect results of operations. the interest rate hedge instruments we use to manage some of our exposure to interest rate volatility involve risk and counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. in addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes and when existing interest rate hedges terminate, we may incur increased costs in putting in place further interest rate hedges. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. increases in our leverage could adversely affect our stock price. our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness we may incur. we consider many factors when making decisions regarding the incurrence of indebtedness, such as the purchase price of properties to be acquired with debt financing, the estimated market value of our properties and the ability of particular properties and our business as a whole to generate cash flow to cover expected debt service. any changes that increase our leverage could be viewed negatively by investors. as a result, our stock price could decrease. a downgrade in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. our credit rating and the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities and our preferred stock could change based upon, among other things, our results of operations and financial condition. these ratings are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and any rating could be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future if, in its judgment, circumstances warrant such action. moreover, these credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our common stock or any other securities. if any of the credit rating agencies that have rated our securities downgrades or lowers its credit rating, or if any credit rating agency indicates that it has placed any such rating on a watch list for a possible downgrading or lowering, or otherwise indicates that its outlook for that rating is negative, such action could have a material adverse effect on our costs and availability of funding, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, the trading price of our securities and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. debt and preferred equity investments could cause us to incur expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we held first mortgages, mezzanine loans, junior participations and preferred equity interests with an aggregate net book value of $2.1 billion at december 31, 2018 . some of these instruments may be recourse to their sponsors, while others are limited to the collateral securing the loan. in the event of a default under these obligations, we may have to take possession of the collateral securing these interests. borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against such enforcement and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce their obligations to us. declines in the value of the property may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our investment upon foreclosure or realization even if we make substantial improvements or repairs to the underlying real estate in order to maximize such property's investment potential. in addition, we may invest in mortgage-backed securities and other marketable securities. 17 table of contents we maintain and regularly evaluate the need for reserves to protect against potential future losses. our reserves reflect management's judgment of the probability and severity of losses and the value of the underlying collateral. we cannot be certain that our judgment will prove to be correct and that our reserves will be adequate over time to protect against future losses because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific properties, assets, tenants, borrowers, industries in which our tenants and borrowers operate or markets in which our tenants and borrowers or their properties are located. if our reserves for credit losses prove inadequate, we could suffer losses which would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, the market prices of our securities and our ability to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. joint investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority and reliance upon a co-venturer's financial condition. we co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures, co-tenancies or other structures, and by acquiring non-controlling interests in, or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of, a property, partnership, joint venture, co-tenancy or other entity. therefore, we may not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding such property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. investments in partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities may involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that our partners, co-tenants or co-venturers might become bankrupt or otherwise fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. additionally, our partners or co-venturers might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals which are competitive or inconsistent with our business interests or goals. these investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions such as a sale, because neither we, nor the partner, co-tenant or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. in addition, we may in specific circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners, co-tenants or co-venturers. as of december 31, 2018 , we had an aggregate cost basis in these joint ventures totaling $3.0 billion . certain of our joint venture agreements contain terms in favor of our partners that could have an adverse effect on the value of our investments in the joint ventures. each of our joint venture agreements has been individually negotiated with our partner in the joint venture and, in some cases, we have agreed to terms that are more favorable to our partner in the joint venture than to us. for example, our partner may be entitled to a specified portion of the profits of the joint venture before we are entitled to any portion of such profits. we may also enter into similar arrangements in the future. these rights may permit our partner in a particular joint venture to obtain a greater benefit from the value or profits of the joint venture than us, which could have an adverse effect on the value of our investment in the joint venture and on our financial condition and results of operations. we may incur costs to comply with governmental laws and regulations. we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental and health and safety laws that can impose liability on current and former property owners or operators for the clean-up of certain hazardous substances released on a property or of contamination at any facility (e.g., a landfill) to which we have sent hazardous substances for treatment or disposal, without regard to fault or whether the release or disposal was in compliance with law. being held responsible for such a clean-up could result in significant cost to us and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our properties may be subject to risks relating to current or future laws, including laws benefiting disabled persons, such as the americans with disabilities act, or ada, and state or local zoning, construction or other regulations. compliance with such laws may require significant property modifications in the future, which could be costly and non-compliance could result in fines being levied against us in the future. such costs could have an adverse impact on our cash flows and ability to pay dividends to stockholders. our charter documents, debt instruments and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us, which could discourage takeover attempts and prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium over the market price of our stock. provisions of our charter and bylaws could inhibit changes in control. a change of control of our company could benefit stockholders by providing them with a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our stock. however, provisions contained in our charter and bylaws may delay or prevent a change in control of our company. these provisions, discussed more fully below, are: staggered board of directors; ownership limitations; and the board of directors' ability to issue additional common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval. our board of directors is currently staggered into three separate classes. at our 2017 annual meeting of stockholders, held on june 1, 2017, our stockholders voted to declassify the board of directors. beginning with the election of the class i directors at the 2018 annual meeting of stockholders, our board of directors 18 table of contents has been elected for terms ending at the next annual meeting of stockholders following their election and until their successors are duly elected and qualify. by the 2020 annual meeting of stockholders, our board of directors will be fully declassified. currently, our board of directors is divided into three classes. the terms of the class i and class ii directors expire in 2019, and the terms of the class iii directors expire in 2020. the nature of the different expiration dates for directors may deter a change in control because of the increased time period necessary for a third-party to acquire control of the board. we have a stock ownership limit. to remain qualified as a reit for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of any taxable year. for this purpose, stock may be "owned" directly, as well as indirectly under certain constructive ownership rules, including, for example, rules that attribute stock held by one shareholder to another shareholder. in part to avoid violating this rule regarding stock ownership limitations and maintain our reit qualification, our charter prohibits ownership by any single stockholder of more than 9.0% in value or number of shares of our common stock. limitations on the ownership of preferred stock may also be imposed by us. our board of directors has the discretion to raise or waive this limitation on ownership for any stockholder if deemed to be in our best interest. our board of directors has granted such waivers from time to time. to obtain a waiver, a stockholder must present the board and our tax counsel with evidence that ownership in excess of this limit will not affect our present or future reit status. absent any exemption or waiver, stock acquired or held in excess of the limit on ownership will be transferred to a trust for the exclusive benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary, and the stockholder's rights to distributions and to vote would terminate. the stockholder would be entitled to receive, from the proceeds of any subsequent sale of the shares transferred to the charitable trust, the lesser of: the price paid for the stock or, if the owner did not pay for the stock, the market price of the stock on the date of the event causing the stock to be transferred to the charitable trust; and the amount realized from the sale. this limitation on ownership of stock could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. maryland takeover statutes may prevent a change of control of our company, which could depress our stock price. under the maryland general corporation law, or the mgcl, "business combinations" between a maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. these business combinations include a merger, consolidation, stock exchange or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. an interested stockholder is defined as: any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation's outstanding voting stock; or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock of the corporation. a person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if the board of directors approves in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. after the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by the board of directors of the corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least: 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation, voting together as a single group; and two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder. the business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer, including potential acquisitions that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. in addition, maryland law provides that holders of "control shares" of a maryland corporation acquired in a "control share acquisition" will not have voting rights with respect to the control shares except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares of stock owned by the acquiror, by officers of the corporation or by directors who are employees of the corporation, under the maryland control share acquisition act. "control shares" means voting shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock owned by the acquiror or in respect of which the acquiror is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of voting power: (i) one-tenth or more but less than one-third; (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority; or (iii) a majority or more of all voting power. a "control share acquisition" 19 table of contents means the acquisition of ownership of, or the power to direct the exercise of voting power with respect to, issued and outstanding control shares, subject to certain exceptions. we have opted out of these provisions of the mgcl, with respect to business combinations and control share acquisitions, by resolution of our board of directors and a provision in our bylaws, respectively. however, in the future, our board of directors may reverse its decision by resolution and elect to opt in to the mgcl's business combination provisions, or amend our bylaws and elect to opt in to the mgcl's control share provisions. additionally, the mgcl permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses, some of which have not been implemented by our board of directors. such takeover defenses, if implemented, may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making us an acquisition proposal or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with an opportunity to realize a premium over the then-current market price. contractual provisions that limit the assumption of certain of our debt may prevent a change in control. certain of our consolidated debt is not assumable and may be subject to significant prepayment penalties. these limitations could deter a change in control of our company. compliance with changing or new regulations applicable to corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses, or affect our operations. changing or new laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including sec regulations and nyse rules, can create uncertainty for public companies. these changed or new laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity. as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. we are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. if our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. in particular, our continued efforts to comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors' audit of that assessment have required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. further, our directors, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. as a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified directors and executive officers, which could harm our business. future issuances of common stock, preferred stock and convertible debt could dilute existing stockholders' interests. our charter authorizes its board of directors to issue additional shares of common stock, preferred stock and convertible equity or debt without stockholder approval and without the requirement to offer rights of pre-emption to existing stockholders. any such issuance could dilute our existing stockholders' interests. also, any future series of preferred stock may have voting provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company. changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. as with other publicly traded equity securities, the value of our common stock depends on various market conditions, which may change from time to time. in addition to the current economic environment and future volatility in the securities and credit markets, the following market conditions may affect the value of our common stock: the general reputation of reits and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies; our financial performance; and general stock and bond market conditions. the market value of our common stock is based on a number of factors including, but not limited to, the market's perception of the current and future value of our assets, our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash dividends. consequently, our common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share of common stock. 20 table of contents the trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. between january 1, 2018 and december 31, 2018 , the closing sale price of our common stock on the new york stock exchange, or the nyse, ranged from $77.63 to $105.86 per share. our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as those described elsewhere in this "risk factors" section. equity issuances or buybacks by us or the perception that such issuances or buybacks may occur may also affect the market price of our common stock. we may in the future pay taxable dividends on our common stock in common stock and cash. in order to qualify as a reit, we are required to annually distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income, excluding net capital gain. in order to avoid taxation of our income, we are required to annually distribute to our stockholders all of our taxable income, including net capital gain. in order to satisfy these requirements, we may make distributions that are payable partly in cash and partly in shares of our common stock. if we pay such a dividend, taxable stockholders would be required to include the entire amount of the dividend, including the portion paid with shares of common stock, as income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, and may be required to pay income taxes with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash dividends received. we are dependent on external sources of capital. we need a substantial amount of capital to operate and grow our business. this need is exacerbated by the distribution requirements imposed on us for sl green to qualify as a reit. we therefore rely on third-party sources of capital, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. in addition, we anticipate raising money in the public equity and debt markets with some regularity and our ability to do so will depend upon the general conditions prevailing in these markets. at any time, conditions may exist which effectively prevent us, or reits in general, from accessing these markets. moreover, additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of our stockholders' interests, and additional debt financing may substantially increase our leverage. our property taxes could increase due to reassessment or property tax rate changes. we are required to pay real property taxes in respect of our properties and such taxes may increase as our properties are reassessed by taxing authorities or as property tax rates change. an increase in the assessed value of our properties or our property tax rates could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our security holders. we face potential conflicts of interest. there are potential conflicts of interest between us and stephen l. green. there is a potential conflict of interest relating to the disposition of certain property contributed to us by stephen l. green and affiliated entities in our initial public offering. mr. green serves as a member and as the chairman emeritus of our board of directors. if we sell a property in a transaction in which a taxable gain is recognized, for tax purposes the built-in gain would be allocated solely to him and not to us. as a result, mr. green has a conflict of interest if the sale of a property he contributed is in our best interest but not his. in addition, mr. green's tax basis includes his share of debt, including mortgage indebtedness, owed by the operating partnership. if the operating partnership were to retire such debt, then he would experience a decrease in his share of liabilities, which, for tax purposes, would be treated as a distribution of cash to him. to the extent the deemed distribution of cash exceeded his tax basis, he would recognize gain. as a result, mr. green has a conflict of interest if the refinancing of indebtedness is in our best interest but not his. members of management may have a conflict of interest over whether to enforce terms of agreements with entities which mr. green, directly or indirectly, has an affiliation. alliance building services, or alliance, and its affiliates are partially owned by gary green, a son of stephen l. green, who serves as a member and as the chairman emeritus of our board of directors, and provide services to certain properties owned by us. alliance's affiliates include first quality maintenance, l.p., or first quality, classic security llc, bright star couriers llc and onyx restoration works, and provide cleaning, extermination, security, messenger, and restoration services, respectively. in addition, first quality has the non-exclusive opportunity to provide cleaning and related services to individual tenants at our properties on a basis separately negotiated with any tenant seeking such additional services. the service corporation has entered into an arrangement with alliance whereby it will receive a profit participation above a certain threshold for services provided by alliance to certain tenants at certain buildings above the base services specified in their lease agreements. our company and our tenants accounted for 24.89% of alliance's 2018 estimated total revenue, based on information provided to us by alliance. while we believe that the contracts pursuant to which these services are provided were the result of arm's length negotiations, there can be no assurance that the terms of such agreements, or dealings between the parties during the performance 21 table of contents of such agreements, will be as favorable to us as those which could be obtained from unaffiliated third parties providing comparable services under similar circumstances. sl green's failure to qualify as a reit would be costly and would have a significant effect on the value of our securities. we believe we have operated in a manner for sl green to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes and intend to continue to so operate. many of the reit compliance requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. the determination that sl green is a reit requires an analysis of factual matters and circumstances. these matters, some of which are not totally within our control, can affect sl green's qualification as a reit. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income must come from designated sources that are listed in the reit tax laws. we are also required to distribute to stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income excluding capital gains. the fact that we hold our assets through the operating partnership and its subsidiaries further complicates the application of the reit requirements. even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our reit status. furthermore, congress and the internal revenue service, or the irs, might make changes to the tax laws and regulations that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified as a reit. if sl green fails to qualify as a reit, the funds available for distribution to our stockholders would be substantially reduced as we would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to our stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates and possibly increased state and local taxes. also, unless the irs grants us relief under specific statutory provisions, sl green would remain disqualified as a reit for four years following the year in which sl green first failed to qualify. if sl green failed to qualify as a reit, sl green would have to pay significant income taxes and would therefore have less money available for investments, to service debt obligations or to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. this would have a significant adverse effect on the value of our securities. in addition, the reit tax laws would no longer obligate us to make any distributions to stockholders. as a result of all these factors, if sl green fails to qualify as a reit, this could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital. changes to u.s. federal income tax laws could materially and adversely affect us and our stockholders. the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act'') signed into law on december 22, 2017, made substantial changes to the code. among those changes are a significant permanent reduction in the generally applicable corporate tax rate, changes in the taxation of individuals and other non-corporate taxpayers that generally but not universally reduce their taxes on a temporary basis subject to sunset'' provisions, the elimination or modification of various currently allowed deductions (including substantial limitations on the deductibility of interest and, in the case of individuals, the deduction for personal state and local taxes), and preferential rates of taxation on most ordinary reit dividends and certain business income derived by non-corporate taxpayers in comparison to other ordinary income recognized by such taxpayers. the tax act also imposes certain additional limitations on the deduction of net operating losses, which may in the future cause us to be required to make distributions that will be taxable to our stockholders to the extent of our current or accumulated earnings and profits in order to comply with the annual reit distribution requirements. the effect of these, and the many other, changes made in the tax act is highly uncertain, both in terms of their direct effect on the taxation of an investment in our common stock and their indirect effect on the value of our assets or market conditions generally. furthermore, many of the provisions of the tax act will require guidance through the issuance of treasury regulations in order to assess their effect. there may be a substantial delay before such regulations are promulgated, increasing the uncertainty as to the ultimate effect of the statutory amendments on us. technical corrections to the tax act were proposed in 2018, and additional corrections may be proposed in 2019, the effect of which cannot be predicted and may be adverse to us or our stockholders. additionally, the rules dealing with u.s. federal income taxation are continually under review by congress, the irs, and the u.s. department of the treasury. any such changes could have an adverse effect on an investment in our shares or on the market value or the resale potential of our assets. loss of our key personnel could harm our operations and our stock price. we are dependent on the efforts of marc holliday, our chairman and chief executive officer, and andrew w. mathias, our president. these officers have employment agreements which expire in january 2022 and december 2021, respectively. a loss of the services of either of these individuals could adversely affect our operations and could be negatively perceived by the market resulting in a decrease in our stock price. our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures or cyber security attacks. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to a number of risks including energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication failures and cyber attacks and intrusions, such as computer viruses, malware, attachments to e-mails, intrusion and unauthorized access, including from persons inside our organization or from persons outside our organization with access to our systems. the risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attacks and intrusions, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and instructions from around the world have increased. our systems are critical 22 table of contents to the operation of our business and any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. we may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. although we make efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our systems and have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. any compromise of our security could also result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, loss or misuse of the information (which may be confidential, proprietary and/or commercially sensitive in nature) and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. forward-looking statements may prove inaccurate. see item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations forward-looking information," for additional disclosure regarding forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 65 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk see item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market rate risk" for additional information regarding our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. the table below presents the principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of our debt obligations and debt and preferred equity investments and the weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates, including as-of-right extension options, as of december 31, 2018 (in thousands): long-term debt debt and preferred equity investments (1) fixed rate average interest rate variable rate average interest rate amount weighted yield 2019 $ 6,241 4.08 % $ 27,500 4.04 % $ 442,557 10.31 % 2020 261,117 3.87 % 315,523 3.79 % 1,273,679 8.21 % 2021 11,636 3.83 % 489,869 3.73 % 26,471 9.54 % 2022 1,008,017 3.82 % 4.00 % 204,790 11.46 % 2023 1,007,301 4.08 % 915,550 4.38 % 42,706 8.55 % thereafter 1,245,405 4.29 % 300,000 4.45 % 109,190 8.46 % total $ 3,539,717 3.92 % $ 2,048,442 3.92 % $ 2,099,393 9.01 % fair value $ 3,230,127 $ 2,057,966 (1) our debt and preferred equity investments had an estimated fair value ranging between $2.1 billion and $2.3 billion at december 31, 2018 . the table below presents the principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of our share of our joint venture debt obligations and the weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates as of december 31, 2018 (in thousands): long term debt fixed rate average interest rate variable rate average interest rate 2019 $ 106,255 4.16 % $ 9,040 4.47 % 2020 11,236 4.16 % 267,555 4.45 % 2021 11,730 4.16 % 506,641 4.41 % 2022 220,779 4.12 % 31 4.70 % 2023 271,064 3.95 % 6,932 5.13 % thereafter 1,719,845 3.91 % 710,353 5.27 % total $ 2,340,909 4.12 % $ 1,500,552 4.55 % fair value $ 2,327,716 $ 1,510,470 65 table of contents the table below lists our consolidated derivative instruments, which are hedging variable rate debt, and their related fair values as of december 31, 2018 (in thousands): asset hedged benchmark rate notional value strike rate effective date expiration date fair value interest rate swap credit facility libor $ 200,000 1.131 % july 2016 july 2023 $ 11,148 interest rate swap credit facility libor 100,000 1.161 % july 2016 july 2023 5,447 interest rate cap mortgage libor 137,500 4.000 % september 2017 september 2019 interest rate swap credit facility libor 100,000 1.928 % december 2017 november 2020 1,045 interest rate swap credit facility libor 100,000 1.934 % december 2017 november 2020 1,035 interest rate swap credit facility libor 150,000 2.696 % january 2019 january 2024 (1,858 ) interest rate swap credit facility libor 150,000 2.721 % january 2019 january 2026 (2,450 ) interest rate swap credit facility libor 200,000 2.740 % january 2019 january 2026 (3,354 ) total consolidated hedges $ 11,013 in addition to these derivative instruments, some of our joint venture loan agreements require the joint venture to purchase interest rate caps on its debt. all such interest rate caps represented in aggregate an asset of $7.0 million at december 31, 2018 . we also swapped certain floating rate debt at some of our joint ventures. these swaps represented in aggregate an asset of $11.1 million at december 31, 2018 . 66 table of contentsrisk factors 12 item 1b . unresolved staff comments 22 item 2. properties 23 item 3. legal proceedings 29 item 4. mine safety disclosures 29 part ii item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities 30 item 6. selected financial data - sl green realty corp. 32 selected financial data - sl green operating partnership, l.p. item 7 . management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations 36 item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data 58 item 9. changes in and disagreements with accountants on accounting and financial disclosure 127 item 9a. controls and procedures 128 item 9b. other information 132 part iii item 10. directors, executive officers and corporate governance 133 item 11. executive compensation 133 item 12. security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters 133 item 13. certain relationships and related transactions, and director independence 133 item 14. principal accounting fees and services 133 part iv item 15. exhibits, financial statements and schedules 134 signatures 140 table of contents part i item 1. business general sl green realty corp. is a self-managed real estate investment trust, or reit, engaged in the acquisition, development, ownership, management and operation of commercial and residential real estate properties, principally office properties, located in the new york metropolitan area. we were formed in june, 1997 for the purpose of continuing the commercial real estate business of s.l. green properties, inc., our predecessor entity. s.l. green properties, inc., which was founded in 1980 by stephen l. green, who serves as a member and the chairman emeritus of the company's board of directors, had been engaged in the business of owning, managing, leasing, and repositioning office properties in manhattan, a borough of new york city. as of december 31, 2019 , we owned the following interests in properties in the new york metropolitan area, primarily in midtown manhattan. our investments located outside of manhattan are referred to as the suburban properties: consolidated unconsolidated total location property type number of properties approximate square feet number of properties approximate square feet number of properties approximate square feet weighted average occupancy (1) commercial: manhattan office 20 12,387,091 10 11,216,183 30 23,603,274 94.5 % retail 6 (2) 320,430 8 289,050 14 609,480 98.4 % development/redevelopment (3) 6 189,538 1 7 189,538 84.9 % fee interest 1 1 % 32 12,897,059 20 11,505,233 52 24,402,292 94.6 % suburban office 8 1,044,800 8 1,044,800 85.7 % retail 1 52,000 1 52,000 100.0 % 9 1,096,800 9 1,096,800 86.4 % total commercial properties 41 13,993,859 20 11,505,233 61 25,499,092 94.2 % residential: manhattan residential 2 (2) 445,105 8 1,663,774 10 2,108,879 95.7 % total residential properties 2 445,105 8 1,663,774 10 2,108,879 95.7 % total portfolio 43 14,438,964 28 13,169,007 71 27,607,971 94.3 % (1) the weighted average occupancy for commercial properties represents the total occupied square feet divided by total square footage at acquisition. the weighted average occupancy for residential properties represents the total occupied units divided by total available units. (2) as of december 31, 2019 , we owned a building at 315 west 33rd street, also known as the olivia, that was comprised of approximately 270,132 square feet of retail space and approximately 222,855 square feet of residential space. for the purpose of this report, we have included the building in the number of retail properties we own. however, we have included only the retail square footage in the retail approximate square footage, and have listed the balance of the square footage as residential square footage. (3) properties in development are included in number of properties and have no approximate square feet. as of december 31, 2019 , we also managed two office buildings owned by third parties encompassing approximately 2.1 million square feet, and held debt and preferred equity investments with a book value of $1.7 billion , including $0.1 billion of debt and preferred equity investments and other financing receivables that are included in balance sheet line items other than the debt and preferred equity investments line item. our corporate offices are located in midtown manhattan at 420 lexington avenue, new york, new york 10170. as of december 31, 2019 , we employed 1,033 employees, 290 of whom were employed in our corporate offices. we can be contacted at (212) 594-2700. we maintain a website at www.slgreen.com . on our website, you can obtain, free of charge, a copy of our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the exchange act as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material electronically with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission, or the sec. we have also made available on our website our audit committee charter, compensation committee charter, nominating and corporate governance committee charter, code of business conduct and ethics and corporate governance principles. we do not intend for information contained on our website to be part of this annual report on form 10-k. the sec maintains a website (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the sec. 4 table of contents unless the context requires otherwise, all references to the "company," "sl green," "we," "our" and "us" in this annual report means sl green realty corp., a maryland corporation, and one or more of its subsidiaries, including the operating partnership, or, as the context may require, sl green only or the operating partnership only, and "s.l. green properties" means s.l. green properties, inc., a new york corporation, as well as the affiliated partnerships and other entities through which stephen l. green historically conducted commercial real estate activities. corporate structure in connection with the company's initial public offering, or ipo, in august 1997, the operating partnership received a contribution of interests in real estate properties as well as a 95% economic, non-voting interest in the management, leasing and construction companies affiliated with s.l. green properties. we refer to these management, leasing and construction entities, which are owned by s.l. green management corp, as the "service corporation." the company is organized so as to qualify, and has elected to qualify as a reit, under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended, or the code. substantially all of our assets are held by, and all of our operations are conducted through, the operating partnership. we are the sole managing general partner of the operating partnership, and as of december 31, 2019 , we owned 94.97% of its economic interests. all of the management and leasing operations with respect to our wholly-owned properties are conducted through sl green management llc, or management llc. the operating partnership owns 100% of management llc. in order to maintain the company's qualification as a reit while realizing income from management, leasing and construction contracts with third parties and joint venture properties, all of these service operations are conducted through the service corporation, a consolidated variable interest entity. we, through our operating partnership, receive substantially all of the cash flow from the service corporation's operations. all of the voting common stock of the service corporation is held by an entity owned and controlled by stephen l. green, who serves as a member and as the chairman emeritus of the company's board of directors. business and growth strategies sl green is manhattan's largest owner of office real estate and an investment-grade, s&amp;p 500 company that is focused primarily on owning, managing and maximizing the value of manhattan commercial properties. our core business is the ownership of high quality commercial properties and our primary business objective is to maximize the total return to stockholders, through growth in net income attributable to common stockholders and funds from operations, or ffo, and through asset value appreciation. the commercial real estate expertise resulting from owning, operating, investing, developing, redeveloping and lending on real estate in manhattan for over 39 years has enabled us to invest in a collection of premier office and retail properties, selected multifamily residential assets, and high quality debt and preferred equity investments. we also own high quality commercial properties in the new york metropolitan area. we are led by a strong, experienced management team that provides a foundation of skills in all aspects of real estate, including acquisitions, dispositions, management, leasing, development, redevelopment, and financing. it is with this team that we have achieved a market leading position in our targeted submarkets. we seek to enhance the value of our company by executing strategies that include the following: leasing and property management, which capitalizes on our extensive presence and knowledge of the marketplaces in which we operate; acquiring office, retail and residential properties and employing our local market skills to reposition these assets to create incremental cash flow and capital appreciation; identifying properties well suited for development/redevelopment and maximizing the value of those properties through development/redevelopment or reconfiguration to match current workplace, retail and housing trends; investing in debt and preferred equity positions that generate consistently strong risk-adjusted returns, increase the breadth of our market insight, foster key market relationships and source potential future investment opportunities; executing dispositions through sales or joint ventures that harvest embedded equity which has been generated through management's value enhancing activities; and maintaining a prudently levered, liquid balance sheet with consistent access to diversified sources of property level and corporate capital. 5 table of contents leasing and property management we seek to capitalize on our management's extensive knowledge of manhattan and the new york metropolitan area and the needs of our tenants through proactive leasing and management programs, which include: (i) use of in-depth market experience resulting from managing and leasing tens of millions of square feet of office, retail and residential space since the company was founded; (ii) careful tenant management, which results in long average lease terms and a manageable lease expiration schedule; (iii) utilization of an extensive network of third-party brokers to supplement our in-house leasing team; (iv) use of comprehensive building management analysis and planning; and (v) a commitment to tenant satisfaction by providing high quality tenant services at competitive rental rates. property acquisitions we acquire properties for long-term value appreciation and earnings growth. this strategy has resulted in capital gains that increase our investment capital base. in implementing this strategy, we continually evaluate potential acquisition opportunities. these opportunities may come from new properties as well as acquisitions in which we already hold a joint venture interest or, from time to time, from our debt and preferred equity investments. through intimate knowledge of our markets we have developed an ability to source transactions with superior risk-adjusted returns by capturing off-market opportunities. in rising markets, we primarily seek to acquire strategic vacancies that provide the opportunity to take advantage of our exceptional leasing and repositioning capabilities to increase cash flow and property value. in stable or falling markets, we primarily target assets featuring credit tenancies with fully escalated in-place rents to provide cash flow stability near-term and the opportunity for increases over time. we believe that we have many advantages over our competitors in acquiring core and non-core properties, both directly and through our joint venture program that includes a predominance of high quality institutional investors. those advantages include: (i) senior management's long-tenured experience leading a full-service, fully-integrated real estate company focused, primarily, on the manhattan market; (ii) the ability to offer tax-efficient structures to sellers through the exchange of ownership interests, including units in our operating partnership; and (iii) the ability to underwrite and close transactions on an expedited basis even when the transaction involves a complicated structure. property dispositions we continually evaluate our portfolio to identify those properties that are most likely to meet our long-term earnings and cash flow growth objectives and contribute to increasing portfolio value. properties that no longer meet our objectives are evaluated for sale, or in certain cases, joint venture to release equity created through management's value enhancement programs or to take advantage of attractive market valuations. we seek to efficiently deploy the capital proceeds generated from these dispositions into property acquisitions and debt and preferred equity investments that we expect will provide enhanced future capital gains and earnings growth opportunities. management may also elect to utilize the capital proceeds from these dispositions to repurchase shares of our common stock, repay existing indebtedness of the company or its subsidiaries, or increase cash liquidity. property repositioning our extensive knowledge of the markets in which we operate and our ability to efficiently plan and execute capital projects provide the expertise to enhance returns by repositioning properties that are underperforming. many of the properties we own or seek to acquire feature unique architectural design elements or other amenities and characteristics that can be appealing to tenants when fully exploited. our strategic investment in these properties, combined with our active management and pro-active leasing, provide the opportunity to creatively meet market needs and generate favorable returns. development / redevelopment our constant interactions with tenants and other market participants keep us abreast of innovations in workplace layout, store design and smart living. we leverage this information to identify properties primed for development or redevelopment to meet these demands and unlock value. the expertise and relationships that we have built from managing complex construction projects in new york city and its surrounding areas allow us to cost efficiently add new and renovated assets of the highest quality and desirability to our operating portfolio. debt and preferred equity investments we invest in well-collateralized debt and preferred equity investments in the markets in which we operate, primarily new york city, that generate attractive yields. see note 5, "debt and preferred equity investments," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. knowledge of our markets and our leasing and asset management expertise provide underwriting capabilities that enable a highly educated assessment of risk and return. the benefits of this investment program, which has a carefully managed aggregate size, include the following: 6 table of contents our typical investments provide high current returns at conservative exposure levels and, in certain cases, the potential for future capital gains. our expertise and operating capabilities provide both insight and operating skills that mitigate risk. in certain instances, these investments serve as a potential source of real estate acquisitions for us when a borrower seeks an efficient off-market transaction. ownership knows that we are fully familiar with the asset through our existing investment, and that we can close more efficiently and quickly than others. property owners may also provide us the opportunity to consider off-market transactions involving other properties because we have previously provided debt or preferred equity financing to them. these investments are concentrated in manhattan, which helps us gain market insight, awareness of upcoming investment opportunities and foster key relationships that may provide access to future investment opportunities. capital resources our objective is to maintain multiple sources of corporate and property level capital to obtain the most appropriate and lowest cost of capital. this objective is supported by: property operations that generally provide stable and growing cash flows through market cycles due to favorable supply/demand metrics in manhattan, long average lease terms, high credit quality tenants and superior leasing, operating and asset management skills; concentration of our activities in a manhattan market that is consistently attractive to property investors and lenders through market cycles relative to other markets; maintaining strong corporate liquidity and careful management of future debt maturities; and maintaining access to corporate capital markets through balanced financing and investment activities that result in strong balance sheet and cash flow metrics. manhattan office market overview manhattan is by far the largest office market in the united states containing more rentable square feet than the next four largest central business district office markets combined. the properties in our portfolio are primarily concentrated in some of manhattan's most prominent midtown locations. according to cushman and wakefield research services as of december 31, 2019, manhattan has a total office inventory of approximately 408.9 million square feet, including approximately 250.7 million square feet in midtown. we estimate that approximately 13.6 million square feet of new construction class-a buildings over 250,000 square feet will become available between 2020 and 2024 in manhattan, approximately 43.7% of which is pre-leased. we estimate that this increase is partially offset by approximately 5.5 million square feet which will be converted from office use to an alternative use. this will add only approximately 0.4% per year to manhattan's total inventory, net of conversions, over the next five years. while the addition of new supply to the manhattan office inventory is nominal relative to the size of the overall market, we view any additional supply as a positive to the manhattan office market given the older vintage of the majority of manhattan's office inventory and the desire of certain tenants to occupy new, high quality, efficient office space, which often isn't available in older vintage properties. in addition, manhattan's office inventory has only grown by approximately 8.6 million square feet over the last 25 years. according to cushman and wakefield research services the total volume of leases signed in manhattan for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018 was 34.7 million and 35.9 million , respectively. manhattan's diverse tenant base is exemplified by the following tables, which show the percentage of leasing volume attributable to each industry: 7 table of contents percent of manhattan leasing volume (1) industry 2019 2018 technology, advertising, media, and information ("tami") 38.1 % 15.7 % financial services 19.7 % 25.6 % real estates 12.1 % 17.5 % legal services 7.4 % 8.5 % professional services 6.1 % 7.4 % retail/wholesale 4.6 % 5.9 % public sector 3.9 % 6.2 % other 8.1 % 13.2 % (1) source: cushman and wakefield research services general terms of leases in the manhattan markets leases entered into for space in manhattan typically contain terms that may not be contained in leases in other u.s. office markets. the initial term of leases entered into for space in manhattan is generally seven to fifteen years. tenants leasing space in excess of 10,000 square feet for an initial term of 10 years or longer often will negotiate an option to extend the term of the lease for one or two renewal periods, typically for a term of five years each. the base rent during the initial term often will provide for agreed-upon periodic increases over the term of the lease. base rent for renewal terms is most often based upon the then fair market rental value of the premises as of the commencement date of the applicable renewal term (generally determined by binding arbitration in the event the landlord and the tenant are unable to mutually agree upon the fair market value), though base rent for a renewal period may be set at 95% of the then fair market rent. very infrequently, leases may contain termination options whereby a tenant can terminate the lease obligation before the lease expiration date upon payment of a penalty together with repayment of the unamortized portion of the landlord's transaction costs (e.g., brokerage commissions, free rent periods, tenant improvement allowances, etc.). in addition to base rent, a tenant will generally also pay its pro rata share of increases in real estate taxes and operating expenses for the building over a base year, which is typically the year during which the term of the lease commences, based upon the tenant's proportionate occupancy of the building. in some smaller leases (generally less than 10,000 square feet), in lieu of paying additional rent based upon increases in building operating expenses, base rent will be increased each year during the lease term by a set percentage on a compounding basis (though the tenant will still pay its pro rata share of increases in real estate taxes over a base year). tenants typically receive a free rent period following commencement of the lease term, which in some cases may coincide with the tenant's construction period. the landlord most often supplies electricity either on a sub-metered basis at the landlord's cost plus a fixed percentage or on a rent inclusion basis (i.e., a fixed fee is added to the base rent for electricity, which amount may increase based upon increases in electricity rates or increases in electrical usage by the tenant). base building services, other than electricity, such as heat, air conditioning, freight elevator service during business hours and base building cleaning typically are provided at no additional cost, but are included in the building's operating expenses. the tenant will typically pay additional rent only for services which exceed base building services or for services which are provided other than during normal business hours. in a typical lease for a new tenant renting in excess of 10,000 square feet, the landlord will deliver the premises with existing improvements demolished. in such instances, the landlord will typically provide a tenant improvement allowance, which is a fixed sum that the landlord makes available to the tenant to reimburse the tenant for all or a portion of the tenant's initial construction of its premises. such sum typically is payable as work progresses, upon submission by the tenant of invoices for the cost of construction and lien waivers. however, in certain leases (most often for relatively small amounts of space), the landlord will construct the premises for the tenant at a cost to the landlord not to exceed an agreed upon amount with the tenant paying any amount in excess of the agreed upon amount. in addition, landlords may rent space to a tenant that is "pre-built" (i.e., space that was constructed by the landlord in advance of lease signing and is ready to for the tenant to move in with the tenant selecting paint and carpet colors). 8 table of contents occupancy the following table sets forth the weighted average occupancy rates at our office properties based on space leased for properties owned by us as of december 31, 2019 : percent occupied as of december 31, property 2019 2018 same-store office properties - manhattan (1) 96.2% 96.0% manhattan office properties 94.5% 94.5% suburban office properties 85.7% 91.3% unconsolidated joint venture office properties 93.9% 95.4% portfolio (2) 94.3% 94.2% (1) all office properties located in manhattan owned by us at january 1, 2018 and still owned by us in the same manner at december 31, 2019 . percent occupied includes leases signed but not yet commenced. (2) excludes properties under development. rent growth we are constantly evaluating our schedule of future lease expirations to mitigate occupancy risk while maximizing rent growth. we proactively manage future lease expirations based on our view of estimated current and future market conditions and asking rents. the following table sets forth our future lease expirations, excluding triple net leases, and management's estimates of market asking rents. taking rents are typically lower than asking rents and may vary from building to building. there can be no assurances that our estimates of market rents are accurate or that market rents currently prevailing will not erode or outperform in the future. annual lease expirations - manhattan operating properties consolidated properties joint venture properties year of lease expiration number of expiring leases (2) rentable square footage of expiring leases percentage of total sq. ft. annualized cash rent of expiring leases annualized cash rent per square foot of expiring leases $/psf (3) current weighted average asking rent $/psf (4) number of expiring leases (2) rentable square footage of expiring leases percentage of total sq. ft. annualized cash rent of expiring leases annualized cash rent per square foot of expiring leases $/psf (3) current weighted average asking rent $/psf (4) 2019 (1) 14 422,686 3.42 % $35,203,898 $83.29 $69.38 2 1,714 0.02 % $54,600 $31.86 $32.47 1st quarter 2020 14 108,121 0.87 % $7,418,586 $68.61 $65.41 4 132,676 1.23 % $8,212,220 $61.90 $75.46 2nd quarter 2020 15 44,882 0.36 % 2,965,824 66.08 76.41 5 56,941 0.53 % 4,337,388 76.17 83.37 3rd quarter 2020 19 243,599 1.97 % 15,140,069 62.15 62.17 4 30,098 0.28 % 2,196,793 72.99 73.26 4th quarter 2020 28 1,478,732 11.95 % 100,725,841 91.21 (5) 80.68 (5) 5 30,276 0.28 % 3,011,293 99.46 86.37 total 2020 76 1,875,334 15.15 % $126,250,320 $76.69 $72.02 18 249,991 2.32 % $17,757,694 $71.03 $78.32 2021 108 1,259,079 10.18 % $77,936,064 $61.90 $67.88 26 291,807 2.70 % $22,156,933 $75.93 $79.20 2022 97 822,698 6.65 % 67,030,173 81.48 82.72 31 894,293 8.28 % 83,342,706 93.19 95.10 2023 76 883,272 7.14 % 57,648,722 65.27 65.99 16 438,826 4.06 % 38,216,366 87.09 80.68 2024 60 399,467 3.23 % 28,380,429 71.05 71.32 24 1,003,426 9.29 % 106,754,273 106.39 87.20 2025 45 591,666 4.78 % 53,408,872 90.27 82.35 12 426,938 3.95 % 34,135,739 79.95 84.97 2026 30 781,269 6.32 % 55,151,891 70.59 68.48 20 499,312 4.62 % 50,595,762 101.33 103.74 2027 35 602,943 4.87 % 46,184,007 76.60 71.71 17 375,697 3.48 % 33,260,546 88.53 94.16 2028 38 599,486 4.85 % 44,180,538 73.70 76.07 18 206,956 1.92 % 21,542,167 104.09 100.76 thereafter 91 4,132,832 33.41 % 242,723,273 58.73 66.56 47 6,408,455 59.36 % 427,998,688 66.79 82.80 670 12,370,732 100.00 % $834,098,187 68.05 (5) 70.23 (5) 231 10,797,415 100.00 % $835,815,474 $77.41 $85.72 (1) includes month to month holdover tenants that expired prior to december 31, 2019. (2) tenants may have multiple leases. (3) represents in place annualized rent allocated by year of expiration. (4) management's estimate of current average asking rents for currently occupied space as of december 31, 2019. taking rents are typically lower than asking rents and may vary from property to property. (5) excludes credit suisse at one madison avenue. in january 2020, credit suisse entered into a lease termination agreement with the company and vacated its space at the property. industry segments the company is a reit that is engaged in the acquisition, development, ownership, management and operation of commercial and residential real estate properties, principally office properties, located in the new york metropolitan area and has two reportable segments: real estate and debt and preferred equity investments. our industry segments are discussed in note 21, "segment information," in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 9 table of contents at december 31, 2019 , our real estate portfolio was primarily located in one geographical market, the new york metropolitan area. the primary sources of revenue are generated from tenant rents and escalations and reimbursement revenue. real estate property operating expenses consist primarily of cleaning, security, maintenance, utility costs, real estate taxes and, at certain properties, ground rent expense. as of december 31, 2019 , one tenant in our office portfolio, credit suisse, contributed 8.2% of our share of annualized cash rent. in january 2020, credit suisse executed a lease termination agreement with the company and vacated its space at the property, thereby reducing its share of annualized cash rent to approximately 3.3% . no other tenant contributed more than 5.0% of our share of annualized cash rent. no property contributed in excess of 10.0% of our consolidated total revenue for 2019 . at december 31, 2019 , we held debt and preferred equity investments with a book value of $1.7 billion , including $0.1 billion of debt and preferred equity investments and other financing receivables that are included in balance sheet line items other than the debt and preferred equity investments line item. at december 31, 2019 , the assets underlying our debt and preferred equity investments were located in the new york metropolitan area. the primary sources of revenue are generated from interest and fee income. employees at december 31, 2019 , we employed 1,033 employees, 290 of whom were employed in our corporate offices. there are currently six collective bargaining agreements which cover the workforce that services substantially all of our properties. highlights from 2019 our significant achievements from 2019 included: corporate repurchased 4.6 million shares of our common stock under our share repurchase program at an average price of $83.62 per share and increased the size of our share repurchase program by $500 million to $3.0 billion. from program inception through december 31, 2019, we have repurchased a cumulative total of 22.7 million shares of our common stock under the program at an average price of $95.66 per share. leasing signed 163 manhattan office leases covering approximately 2.5 million square feet. the mark-to-market on signed manhattan office leases was 38.1% higher in 2019 than the previously fully escalated rents on the same spaces. reached 65% leased at one vanderbilt avenue after signing new leases with kps capital partners lp; sentinel capital partners; and oak hill advisors and lease expansions with the carlyle group and mcdermott will &amp; emery. reached 96.2% leased at 410 tenth avenue after signing new leases with first republic bank and amazon. signed a lease renewal with bmw of manhattan for 227,000 square feet at 555 west 57th street. signed a new retail lease with ulta beauty for 12,040 square feet at 2 herald square. acquisitions entered into a contract to acquire 707 eleventh avenue for a gross purchase price of $90.0 million. the 160,000-square-foot office property will be redeveloped into a modern, class-a building. the acquisition was closed in january 2020. closed on the acquisition of a majority and controlling interest in 410 tenth avenue at a gross purchase price of $440 million. closed on the acquisition from our joint venture partner of the remaining 10% interest in 110 greene street that we did not already own at a gross asset valuation of $256.5 million. took possession of the retail co-op at 106 spring street in soho. this property previously served as collateral for a debt and preferred equity investment and was acquired through a negotiated transaction with the sponsor of the investment. dispositions closed on the sale of 360 hamilton avenue in white plains, new york and 100, 200 and 500 summit lake drive in valhalla, new york. closed on the sale of the development site at 562 fifth avenue for a sale price of $52.4 million. closed on the sale of the development site at 1640 flatbush avenue in brooklyn for a sale price of $16.2 million. closed on the sale of 1010 washington boulevard in stamford, connecticut for a sale price of $23.1 million. 10 table of contents entered into a contract to sell 220 east 42nd street, also known as the news building, for total consideration of $815.0 million. sold a 49% interest in the prime retail condominium at 115 spring street in soho at a gross asset valuation of $66.6 million. together with our joint venture partner, closed on the sale of 521 fifth avenue for a sale price of $381.0 million. closed on the sale of our 20.0% interest in 131-137 spring street to the owner of the remaining 80.0% interest. the transaction generated net cash proceeds to the company of $15.2 million. debt and preferred equity investments originated and retained, or acquired, $0.7 billion in debt and preferred equity investments, inclusive of advances under future funding obligations, discount and fee amortization, and paid-in-kind interest, net of premium amortization, and recorded $1.2 billion of proceeds from sales, repayments and participations. finance together with our joint venture partner, closed on the refinancing of 55 west 46th street, also known as tower 46. the new $198.0 million mortgage replaces the previous $195.0 million mortgage, has a 3-year term, with two one-year extension options, and bears interest at a floating rate of 1.25% over libor. together with our joint venture partner, closed on a $75.0 million upsize of our existing financing at 2 herald square to $225.0 million and reduced the interest rate on the loan by 10 basis points to a floating rate of 1.45% over libor. entered into an agreement to reduce the interest rate spread by 65 basis points on the company's $200.0 million, 7-year term loan that matures in 2024. closed on a $465.0 million construction facility for the redevelopment of 410 tenth avenue. the floating rate facility has a term of three years, with two one-year extension options, and bears interest at an initial floating rate of 2.225% over libor. closed on a new $85.0 million financing of the office portion of 609 fifth avenue. the new mortgage has a 5-year term and bears interest at a floating rate of 2.40% over libor. 11 table of contents item 1a. risk factors declines in the demand for office space in the new york metropolitan area, and in particular midtown manhattan, could adversely affect the value of our real estate portfolio and our results of operations and, consequently, our ability to service current debt and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. the majority of our property holdings are comprised of commercial office properties located in midtown manhattan. our property holdings also include some retail properties and multifamily residential properties. as a result of the concentration of our holdings, our business is dependent on the condition of the new york metropolitan area economy in general and the market for office space in midtown manhattan in particular. future weakness and uncertainty in the new york metropolitan area economy could materially reduce the value of our real estate portfolio and our rental revenues, and thus adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to service current debt and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. we may be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases expire. if tenants decide not to renew their leases upon expiration, we may not be able to relet the space. even if tenants do renew or we can relet the space, the terms of a renewal or new lease, taking into account among other things, the cost of improvements to the property and leasing commissions, may be less favorable than the terms in the expired leases. as of december 31, 2019 , approximately 46.3% and approximately 26.7% of the rentable square feet, are scheduled to expire by december 31, 2024 at our consolidated properties and unconsolidated joint venture properties, respectively, and as of december 31, 2019 , these leases had annualized escalated rent totaling $408.6 million and $268.3 million , respectively. in addition, changes in space utilization by tenants may impact our ability to renew or relet space without the need to incur substantial costs in renovating or redesigning the internal configuration of the relevant property. if we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet the space at similar rates or if we incur substantial costs in renewing or reletting the space, our cash flow and ability to service debt obligations and pay dividends and distributions to security holders could be adversely affected. we face significant competition for tenants. the leasing of real estate is highly competitive. the principal competitive factors are rent, location, lease term, lease concessions, services provided and the nature and condition of the property to be leased. we directly compete with all owners, developers and operators of similar space in the areas in which our properties are located. our commercial office properties are concentrated in highly developed areas of the new york metropolitan area. manhattan is the largest office market in the united states. the number of competitive office properties in the new york metropolitan area, which may be newer or better located than our properties, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease office space at our properties, and on the effective rents we are able to charge. the expiration of long term leases or operating sublease interests where we do not own a fee interest in the land could adversely affect our results of operations. our interests in certain properties are entirely or partially comprised of either long-term leasehold or operating sublease interests in the land and the improvements, rather than by ownership of fee interest in the land. as of december 31, 2019 , the expiration dates of these long-term leases range from 2043 to 2115 , including the effect of our unilateral extension rights on each of these properties. pursuant to the leasehold arrangements, we, as tenant under the operating sublease, perform the functions traditionally performed by landlords with respect to our subtenants. we are responsible for not only collecting rent from our subtenants, but also maintaining the property and paying expenses relating to the property. annualized cash rents, including our share of joint venture annualized cash rents, from properties held through long-term leases or operating sublease interests at december 31, 2019 totaled $337.4 million , or 23.7% , of our share of total portfolio annualized cash rent. unless we purchase a fee interest in the underlying land or extend the terms of these leases prior to expiration, we will lose our right to operate these properties upon expiration of the leases, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. rent payments under leasehold or operating sublease interests are adjusted, within the parameters of the contractual arrangements, at certain intervals. rent adjustments may result in higher rents that could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. we rely on five large properties for a significant portion of our revenue. five of our properties, 1185 avenue of the americas, 11 madison avenue, 420 lexington avenue, 1515 broadway, and one madison avenue accounted for 33.7% of our portfolio annualized cash rent, which includes our share of joint venture annualized cash rent, as of december 31, 2019 . our revenue and cash available to service debt obligations and for distribution to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected if any of these properties were materially damaged or destroyed. additionally, our revenue and cash available to service debt obligations and for distribution to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected if tenants at these properties fail to timely make rental payments due to adverse financial conditions or otherwise, default under their leases or file for bankruptcy or become insolvent. 12 table of contents our results of operations rely on major tenants and insolvency or bankruptcy of these or other tenants could adversely affect our results of operations. giving effect to leases in effect as of december 31, 2019 for consolidated properties and unconsolidated joint venture properties, as of that date, our five largest tenants, based on annualized cash rent, accounted for 19.0% of our share of portfolio annualized cash rent, with one tenant, credit suisse securities (usa) llc, accounting for 8.2% of our share of portfolio annualized cash rent, respectively. in january 2020, credit suisse entered into a lease termination agreement with the company and vacated its space at the property, thereby reducing its share of annualized cash rent to approximately 3.3% . our business and results of operations would be adversely affected if any of our major tenants became insolvent, declared bankruptcy, or otherwise refused to pay rent in a timely fashion or at all. in addition, if business conditions in the industries in which our tenants are concentrated deteriorate, or economic volatility has a disproportionate impact on our clients, we may experience increases in past due accounts, defaults, lower occupancy and reduced effective rents across tenants in such industries, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. construction is in progress at our development projects the company's development projects are subject to internal and external factors which may affect construction progress. unforeseen matters could delay completion, result in increased costs or otherwise have a material effect on our results of operations. in addition, the extended time frame to complete these projects could cause them to be subject to shifts and trends in the real estate market which may not be consistent with our current business plans for the properties. we are subject to risks that affect the retail environment. while only 6.0% of our portfolio annualized cash rent is generated by retail properties, principally in manhattan, we are subject to risks that affect the retail environment generally, including the level of consumer spending and preferences, consumer confidence, electronic retail competition and levels of tourism in manhattan. these factors could adversely affect the financial condition of our retail tenants and the willingness of retailers to lease space in our retail properties, which could in turn have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. we are subject to the risk of adverse changes in economic and geopolitical conditions in general and the commercial office markets in particular our business may be affected by volatility in the financial and credit markets and other market, economic, or political challenges experienced by the u.s. economy or the real estate industry as a whole, including changes in law and policy and uncertainty in connection with any such changes. future periods of economic weakness or volatility could result in reduced access to credit and/or wider credit spreads. economic or political uncertainty, including concern about growth and the stability of the markets generally and changes in the federal interest rates, may lead many lenders and institutional investors to reduce and, in some cases, cease to provide funding to borrowers, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our tenants. specifically, our business may be affected by the following conditions: significant job losses or declining rates of job creation which may decrease demand for office space, causing market rental rates and property values to be negatively impacted; our ability to borrow on terms and conditions that we find acceptable, which could reduce our ability to pursue acquisition and development opportunities and refinance existing debt, reducing our returns from both our existing operations and our acquisition and development activities and increasing our future interest expense; and reduced values of our properties, which may limit our ability to dispose of assets at attractive prices or to obtain debt financing secured by our properties and may reduce the availability of unsecured loans. leasing office space to smaller and growth-oriented businesses could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. some of the tenants in our properties are smaller, growth-oriented businesses that may not have the financial strength of larger corporate tenants. smaller companies generally experience a higher rate of failure than larger businesses. growth-oriented firms may also seek other office space as they develop. leasing office space to these companies could create a higher risk of tenant defaults, turnover and bankruptcies, which could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. we may suffer adverse consequences if our revenues decline since our operating costs do not necessarily decline in proportion to our revenue. we earn a significant portion of our income from renting our properties. our operating costs, however, do not necessarily fluctuate in direct proportion to changes in our rental revenue. if revenues decline more than expenses, we may be forced to borrow to cover our costs, we may incur losses or we may not have cash available to service our debt and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. 13 table of contents competition for acquisitions may reduce the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and increase the costs of those acquisitions. we may acquire properties when we are presented with attractive opportunities. we may face competition for acquisition opportunities from other investors, particularly those investors who are willing to incur more leverage, and this competition may adversely affect us by subjecting us to the following risks: an inability to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well-capitalized real estate investors, including publicly traded and privately held reits, private real estate funds, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, pension trusts, partnerships and individual investors; and an increase in the purchase price for such acquisition property. if we are unable to successfully acquire additional properties, our ability to grow our business could be adversely affected. we face risks associated with property acquisitions. our acquisition activities may not be successful if we are unable to meet required closing conditions or unable to finance acquisitions and developments of properties on favorable terms or at all. additionally, we have less visibility into the future performance of acquired properties than properties that we have owned for a period of time, and therefore, recently acquired properties may not be as profitable as our existing portfolio. further, we may acquire properties subject to both known and unknown liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse to the seller. as a result, if a liability were asserted against us arising from our ownership of those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. unknown liabilities with respect to properties acquired might include: claims by tenants, vendors or other persons arising from dealing with the former owners of the properties; liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties; and liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination. limitations on our ability to sell or reduce the indebtedness on specific properties could adversely affect the value of our common stock. in connection with past and future acquisitions of interests in properties, we have or may agree to restrictions on our ability to sell or refinance the acquired properties for certain periods. these limitations could result in us holding properties which we would otherwise sell, or prevent us from paying down or refinancing existing indebtedness, any of which may have adverse consequences on our business and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. potential losses may not be covered by insurance. we maintain all-risk property and rental value coverage (including coverage regarding the perils of flood, earthquake and terrorism, excluding nuclear, biological, chemical, and radiological terrorism ("nbcr")), within three property insurance programs and liability insurance. separate property and liability coverage may be purchased on a stand-alone basis for certain assets, such as the development of one vanderbilt. additionally, one of our captive insurance companies, belmont insurance company, or belmont, provides coverage for nbcr terrorist acts above a specified trigger. belmont's retention is reinsured by our other captive insurance company, ticonderoga insurance company ("ticonderoga"). if belmont or ticonderoga are required to pay a claim under our insurance policies, we would ultimately record the loss to the extent of required payments. however, there is no assurance that in the future we will be able to procure coverage at a reasonable cost. further, if we experience losses that are uninsured or that exceed policy limits, we could lose the capital invested in the damaged properties as well as the anticipated future cash flows from those properties. additionally, our debt instruments contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance and we could default under our debt instruments if the cost and/or availability of certain types of insurance make it impractical or impossible to comply with such covenants relating to insurance. belmont and ticonderoga provide coverage solely on properties owned by the company or its affiliates. furthermore, with respect to certain of our properties, including properties held by joint ventures or subject to triple net leases, insurance coverage is obtained by a third-party and we do not control the coverage. while we may have agreements with such third parties to maintain adequate coverage and we monitor these policies, such coverage ultimately may not be maintained or adequately cover our risk of loss. 14 table of contents the occurrence of a terrorist attack may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to generate cash flow. our operations are primarily concentrated in the new york metropolitan area. in the aftermath of a terrorist attack or other acts of terrorism or war, tenants in the new york metropolitan area may choose to relocate their business to less populated, lower-profile areas of the united states that those tenants believe are not as likely to be targets of future terrorist activity. in addition, economic activity could decline as a result of terrorist attacks or other acts of terrorism or war, or the perceived threat of such acts. each of these impacts could in turn trigger a decrease in the demand for space in the new york metropolitan area, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease our properties on less favorable terms. while under the terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization act of 2015, insurers must make terrorism insurance available under their property and casualty insurance policies, this legislation does not regulate the pricing of such insurance. the absence of affordable terrorism insurance coverage may adversely affect the general real estate lending market, lending volume and the market's overall liquidity and, in the event of an uninsured loss, we could lose all or a portion of our assets. furthermore, we may also experience increased costs in relation to security equipment and personnel. as a result, the value of our properties and our results of operations could materially decline. we face possible risks associated with the natural disasters and the physical effects of climate change. we are subject to risks associated with natural disasters and the physical effects of climate change, which can include storms, hurricanes and flooding, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations and business. to the extent climate change causes changes in weather patterns, our markets could experience increases in storm intensity and rising sea-levels. over time, these conditions could result in declining demand for office space in our buildings or the inability of us to operate the buildings at all. climate change may also have indirect effects on our business by increasing the cost of (or making unavailable) property insurance on terms we find acceptable, increasing the cost of energy at our properties and requiring us to expend funds as we seek to repair and protect our properties against such risks. there can be no assurance that climate change will not have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations or business. we depend on dividends and distributions from our direct and indirect subsidiaries. substantially all of our assets are held through subsidiaries of our operating partnership. our operating partnership's cash flow is dependent on cash distributions from its subsidiaries, and in turn, substantially all of our cash flow is dependent on cash distributions from our operating partnership. the creditors of each of our direct and indirect subsidiaries are entitled to payment of that subsidiary's obligations to them, when due and payable, before distributions may be made by that subsidiary to its equity holders. therefore, our operating partnership's ability to make distributions to holders of its partnership units depends on its subsidiaries' ability first to satisfy their obligations to their creditors and then to make distributions to our operating partnership. likewise, our ability to pay dividends to holders of common stock and preferred stock depends on our operating partnership's ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions payable to holders of preferred units and then to make distributions to us. furthermore, the holders of preferred partnership units of our operating partnership are entitled to receive preferred distributions before payment of distributions to holders of common units of our operating partnership, including us. thus, our ability to pay cash dividends to our shareholders and satisfy our debt obligations depends on our operating partnership's ability first to satisfy its obligations to its creditors and make distributions to holders of its preferred partnership units and then to holders of its common units, including us. in addition, our participation in any distribution of the assets of any of our direct or indirect subsidiaries upon any liquidation, reorganization or insolvency is only after the claims of the creditors, including trade creditors and preferred security holders, are satisfied. 15 table of contents debt financing, financial covenants, degree of leverage, and increases in interest rates could adversely affect our economic performance. scheduled debt payments could adversely affect our results of operations. cash flow could be insufficient to meet the payments of principal and interest required under our current mortgages, our 2017 credit facility, our senior unsecured notes, our debentures and indebtedness outstanding at our joint venture properties. the total principal amount of our outstanding consolidated indebtedness was $5.6 billion as of december 31, 2019 , consisting of $1.5 billion in unsecured bank term loans (or "term loan a" and "term loan b"), $1.5 billion under our senior unsecured notes, $0.1 billion of junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures, $2.2 billion of non-recourse mortgages and loans payable on certain of our properties and debt and preferred equity investments, $240.0 million drawn under our revolving credit facility, and $11.8 million of outstanding letters of credit. in addition, we could increase the amount of our outstanding consolidated indebtedness in the future, in part by borrowing under the revolving credit facility portion of our 2017 credit facility. as of december 31, 2019 , the total principal amount of non-recourse indebtedness outstanding at the joint venture properties was $9.0 billion , of which our proportionate share was $4.0 billion . as of december 31, 2019 , we had no recourse indebtedness outstanding at our unconsolidated joint venture properties. if we are unable to make payments under our 2017 credit facility, all amounts due and owing at such time shall accrue interest at a rate equal to 2% higher than the rate at which each draw was made. if we are unable to make payments under our senior unsecured notes, the principal and unpaid interest will become immediately payable. if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property, resulting in loss of income and asset value. foreclosure on mortgaged properties or an inability to make payments under our 2017 credit facility or our senior unsecured notes could trigger defaults under the terms of our other financings, making such financings at risk of being declared immediately payable, and would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to refinance existing indebtedness, which may require substantial principal payments at maturity. $55.0 million of consolidated mortgage debt and $105.0 million of unconsolidated joint venture debt is scheduled to mature in 2020 after giving effect to our as-of-right extension options and repayments and refinancing of consolidated and joint venture debt between december 31, 2019 and february 27, 2020 as discussed in the "financial statements and supplementary data" section. at the present time, we intend to repay, refinance, or exercise extension options on the debt associated with our properties on or prior to their respective maturity dates. at the time of refinancing, prevailing interest rates or other factors, such as the possible reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans, may result in higher interest rates. increased interest expense on the extended or refinanced debt would adversely affect cash flow and our ability to service debt obligations and pay dividends and distributions to security holders. if any principal payments due at maturity cannot be repaid, refinanced or extended, our cash flow will not be sufficient to repay maturing or accelerated debt. financial covenants could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. the mortgages and mezzanine loans on our properties generally contain customary negative covenants that limit our ability to further mortgage the properties, to enter into material leases without lender consent or materially modify existing leases, among other things. in addition, our 2017 credit facility and senior unsecured notes contain restrictions and requirements on our method of operations. our 2017 credit facility and our unsecured notes also require us to maintain designated ratios, including but not limited to, total debt-to-assets, debt service coverage and unencumbered assets-to-unsecured debt. these restrictions could adversely affect operations (including reducing our flexibility and our ability to incur additional debt), our ability to pay debt obligations and our ability to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. rising interest rates could adversely affect our cash flow. advances under our 2017 credit facility and certain property-level mortgage debt bear interest at a variable rate. our consolidated variable rate borrowings totaled $2.0 billion at december 31, 2019 . in addition, we could increase the amount of our outstanding variable rate debt in the future, in part by borrowing additional amounts under our 2017 credit facility. borrowings under our revolving credit facility and term loans bore interest at the 30-day libor, plus spreads of 100 basis points, 110 basis points, and 100 basis points, respectively, at december 31, 2019 . as of december 31, 2019 , borrowings under our term loans and junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures totaled $1.5 billion and $100.0 million , respectively. we may incur indebtedness in the future that also bears interest at a variable rate or may be required to refinance our debt at higher rates. at december 31, 2019 , a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates across each of our variable interest rate instruments, including our variable rate debt and preferred equity investments which mitigate our exposure to interest rate changes, would increase our net annual interest costs by $13.3 million and would increase our share of joint venture annual interest costs by $17.0 million . our joint ventures may also incur variable rate debt and face similar risks. accordingly, increases in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial conditions and our ability to continue to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. 16 table of contents the potential phasing out of libor after 2021 may affect our financial results. the chief executive of the united kingdom financial conduct authority ("fca"), which regulates libor, has announced that the fca intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of libor after 2021. it is not possible to predict the effect of these changes or the establishment of alternative reference rates. the alternative reference rate committee ("arrc"), a committee convened by the federal reserve that includes major market participants, and on which the sec staff and other regulators participate, has proposed an alternative rate, the secured overnight financing rate ( sofr ), to replace u.s. dollar libor. any changes announced by the fca, arrc, other regulators or any other successor governance or oversight body, or future changes adopted by such body, in the method pursuant to which u.s. dollar libor, sofr, or any other alternative rates are determined may result in a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in the reported libor rates. if that were to occur, the levels of interest payments we incur and interest payments we receive may change. it is also uncertain whether sofr or any other alternative rate will gain market acceptance. in addition, although certain of our libor based obligations and investments provide for alternative methods of calculating the interest rate if libor is not reported, uncertainty as to the extent and manner of future changes may result in interest rates and/or payments that are higher than, lower than or that do not otherwise correlate over time with the interest rates and/or payments that would have been made on our obligations if libor rate was available in its current form. we may also need to renegotiate our libor based obligations, which we may not be successful in doing on a timely basis or on terms acceptable to us. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect results of operations. the interest rate hedge instruments we use to manage some of our exposure to interest rate volatility involve risk and counterparties may fail to perform under these arrangements. in addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes and when existing interest rate hedges terminate, we may incur increased costs in putting in place further interest rate hedges. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. increases in our leverage could adversely affect our stock price. our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness we may incur. we consider many factors when making decisions regarding the incurrence of indebtedness, such as the purchase price of properties to be acquired with debt financing, the estimated market value of our properties and the ability of particular properties and our business as a whole to generate cash flow to cover expected debt service. any changes that increase our leverage could be viewed negatively by investors. as a result, our stock price could decrease. a downgrade in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. our credit rating and the credit ratings assigned to our debt securities and our preferred stock could change based upon, among other things, our results of operations and financial condition. these ratings are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and any rating could be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future if, in its judgment, circumstances warrant such action. if any of the credit rating agencies that have rated our securities downgrades or lowers its credit rating, or if any credit rating agency indicates that it has placed any such rating on a watch list for a possible downgrading or lowering, or otherwise indicates that its outlook for that rating is negative, such action could have a material adverse effect on our costs and availability of funding, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, the trading price of our securities and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. debt and preferred equity investments could cause us to incur expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we held first mortgages, mezzanine loans, junior participations and preferred equity interests with an aggregate net book value of $1.7 billion at december 31, 2019 . some of these instruments may have some recourse to their sponsors, while others are limited to the collateral securing the loan. in the event of a default under these obligations, we may have to take possession of the collateral securing these interests. borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against such enforcement and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce their obligations to us. declines in the value of the property may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our investment upon foreclosure or realization even if we make substantial improvements or repairs to the underlying real estate in order to maximize such property's investment potential. in addition, we may invest in mortgage-backed securities and other marketable securities. we maintain and regularly evaluate the need for reserves to protect against potential future losses. our reserves reflect management's judgment of the probability and severity of losses and the value of the underlying collateral. we cannot be certain that our judgment will prove to be correct and that our reserves will be adequate over time to protect against future losses because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific properties, assets, tenants, borrowers, industries in which our tenants and borrowers operate or markets in which our tenants and borrowers or their properties are located. 17 table of contents if our reserves for credit losses prove inadequate, we could suffer losses which would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, the market prices of our securities and our ability to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. joint investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority and reliance upon a co-venturer's financial condition. we co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures, co-tenancies or other structures, and by acquiring non-controlling interests in, or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of, a property, partnership, joint venture, co-tenancy or other entity. therefore, we may not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding such property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. investments in partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities may involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that our partners, co-tenants or co-venturers might become bankrupt or otherwise fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. additionally, our partners or co-venturers might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals which are competitive or inconsistent with our business interests or goals. these investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions such as a sale, because neither we, nor the partner, co-tenant or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. in addition, we may in specific circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners, co-tenants or co-venturers. as of december 31, 2019 , we had an aggregate cost basis in joint ventures totaling $2.9 billion . certain of our joint venture agreements contain terms in favor of our partners that could have an adverse effect on the value of our investments in the joint ventures. each of our joint venture agreements has been individually negotiated with our partner in the joint venture and, in some cases, we have agreed to terms that are more favorable to our partner in the joint venture than to us. for example, our partner may be entitled to a specified portion of the profits of the joint venture before we are entitled to any portion of such profits. we may also enter into similar arrangements in the future. we may incur costs to comply with governmental laws and regulations. we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental and health and safety laws that can impose liability on current and former property owners or operators for the clean-up of certain hazardous substances released on a property or of contamination at any facility (e.g., a landfill) to which we have sent hazardous substances for treatment or disposal, without regard to fault or whether the release or disposal was in compliance with law. being held responsible for such a clean-up could result in significant cost to us and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our properties may be subject to risks relating to current or future laws, including laws benefiting disabled persons, such as the americans with disabilities act, or ada, and state or local zoning, construction or other regulations. compliance with such laws may require significant property modifications in the future, which could be costly and non-compliance could result in fines being levied against us in the future. such costs could have an adverse impact on our cash flows and ability to pay dividends to stockholders. our charter documents, debt instruments and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us, which could discourage takeover attempts and prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium over the market price of our stock. provisions of our charter and bylaws could inhibit changes in control. a change of control of our company could benefit stockholders by providing them with a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our stock. however, provisions contained in our charter and bylaws may delay or prevent a change in control of our company. these provisions, discussed more fully below, are: ownership limitations maryland takeover statutes that may prevent a change of control of our company; and contractual provisions that limit the assumption of certain of our debt we have a stock ownership limit. to remain qualified as a reit for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of any taxable year. for this purpose, stock may be "owned" directly, as well as indirectly under certain constructive ownership rules, including, for example, rules that attribute stock held by one shareholder to another shareholder. in part to avoid violating this rule regarding stock ownership limitations and maintain our reit qualification, our charter prohibits ownership by any single stockholder of more than 9.0% in value or number of shares of our common stock. limitations on the ownership of preferred stock may also be imposed by us. our board of directors has the discretion to raise or waive this limitation on ownership for any stockholder if deemed to be in our best interest. our board of directors has granted such waivers from time to time. to obtain a waiver, a stockholder must 18 table of contents present the board and our tax counsel with evidence that ownership in excess of this limit will not affect our present or future reit status. absent any exemption or waiver, stock acquired or held in excess of the limit on ownership will be transferred to a trust for the exclusive benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary, and the stockholder's rights to distributions and to vote would terminate. the stockholder would be entitled to receive, from the proceeds of any subsequent sale of the shares transferred to the charitable trust, the lesser of: the price paid for the stock or, if the owner did not pay for the stock, the market price of the stock on the date of the event causing the stock to be transferred to the charitable trust; and the amount realized from the sale. this limitation on ownership of stock could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. maryland takeover statutes may prevent a change of control of our company, which could depress our stock price. under the maryland general corporation law, or the mgcl, "business combinations" between a maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. these business combinations include a merger, consolidation, stock exchange or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. an interested stockholder is defined as: any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation's outstanding voting stock; or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock of the corporation. a person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if the board of directors approves in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. after the five year prohibition, any business combination between the maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by the board of directors of the corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least: 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation, voting together as a single group; and two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder. the business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer, including potential acquisitions that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. in addition, maryland law provides that holders of "control shares" of a maryland corporation acquired in a "control share acquisition" will not have voting rights with respect to the control shares except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares of stock owned by the acquiror, by officers of the corporation or by directors who are employees of the corporation, under the maryland control share acquisition act. "control shares" means voting shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock owned by the acquiror or in respect of which the acquiror is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of voting power: (i) one-tenth or more but less than one-third; (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority; or (iii) a majority or more of all voting power. a "control share acquisition" means the acquisition of ownership of, or the power to direct the exercise of voting power with respect to, issued and outstanding control shares, subject to certain exceptions. we have opted out of these provisions of the mgcl, with respect to business combinations and control share acquisitions, by resolution of our board of directors and a provision in our bylaws, respectively. however, in the future, our board of directors may reverse its decision by resolution and elect to opt in to the mgcl's business combination provisions, or amend our bylaws and elect to opt in to the mgcl's control share provisions. additionally, the mgcl permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses, some of which have not been implemented by our board of directors. such takeover defenses, if implemented, may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making us an acquisition proposal or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with an opportunity to realize a premium over the then-current market price. contractual provisions that limit the assumption of certain of our debt may prevent a change in control. certain of our consolidated debt is not assumable and may be subject to significant prepayment penalties. these limitations could deter a change in control of our company. 19 table of contents compliance with changing or new regulations applicable to corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses, or affect our operations. changing or new laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including sec regulations and nyse rules, can create uncertainty for public companies. these changed or new laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity. as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. we are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. if our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. in particular, our continued efforts to comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors' audit of that assessment have required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. further, our directors, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. as a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified directors and executive officers, which could harm our business. future issuances of common stock, preferred stock and convertible debt could dilute existing stockholders' interests. our charter authorizes our board of directors to issue additional shares of common stock, preferred stock and convertible equity or debt without stockholder approval and without the requirement to offer rights of pre-emption to existing stockholders. any such issuance could dilute our existing stockholders' interests. also, any future series of preferred stock may have voting provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company. changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. as with other publicly traded equity securities, the value of our common stock depends on various market conditions, which may change from time to time. in addition to the current economic environment and future volatility in the securities and credit markets, the following market conditions may affect the value of our common stock: the general reputation of reits and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies; our financial performance; and general stock and bond market conditions. the market value of our common stock is based on a number of factors including, but not limited to, the market's perception of the current and future value of our assets, our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash dividends. consequently, our common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share of common stock. the trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. between january 1, 2019 and december 31, 2019 , the closing sale price of our common stock on the new york stock exchange, or the nyse, ranged from $76.79 to $93.47 per share. our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as those described elsewhere in this "risk factors" section. equity issuances or buybacks by us or the perception that such issuances or buybacks may occur may also affect the market price of our common stock. we may in the future pay taxable dividends on our common stock in common stock and cash. in order to qualify as a reit, we are required to annually distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income, excluding net capital gains. in order to avoid taxation of our income, we are required to annually distribute to our stockholders all of our taxable income, including net capital gains. in order to satisfy these requirements, we may make distributions that are payable partly in cash and partly in shares of our common stock. if we pay such a dividend, taxable stockholders would be required to include the entire amount of the dividend, including the portion paid with shares of common stock, as income to the extent of our current and accumulated earnings and profits, and may be required to pay income taxes with respect to such dividends in excess of the cash dividends received. we are dependent on external sources of capital. we need a substantial amount of capital to operate and grow our business. this need is exacerbated by the distribution requirements imposed on us for sl green to qualify as a reit. we therefore rely on third-party sources of capital, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the 20 table of contents market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. in addition, we may raise money in the public equity and debt markets and our ability to do so will depend upon the general conditions prevailing in these markets. at any time, conditions may exist which effectively prevent us, or reits in general, from accessing these markets. moreover, additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of our stockholders' interests, and additional debt financing may substantially increase our leverage. our property taxes could increase due to reassessment or property tax rate changes. we are required to pay real property taxes or payments in lieu of taxes in respect of our properties and such taxes may increase as our properties are reassessed by taxing authorities or as property tax rates change. an increase in the assessed value of our properties or our property tax rates could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends and distributions to our security holders. we face potential conflicts of interest. there are potential conflicts of interest between us and stephen l. green. there is a potential conflict of interest relating to the disposition of certain property contributed to us by stephen l. green and affiliated entities in our initial public offering. mr. green serves as a member and as the chairman emeritus of our board of directors. if we sell a property in a transaction in which a taxable gain is recognized, for tax purposes the built-in gain would be allocated solely to him and not to us. as a result, mr. green has a conflict of interest if the sale of a property he contributed is in our best interest but not his. in addition, mr. green's tax basis includes his share of debt, including mortgage indebtedness, owed by the operating partnership. if the operating partnership were to retire such debt, then he would experience a decrease in his share of liabilities, which, for tax purposes, would be treated as a distribution of cash to him. to the extent the deemed distribution of cash exceeded his tax basis, he would recognize gain. as a result, mr. green has a conflict of interest if the refinancing of indebtedness is in our best interest but not his. members of management may have a conflict of interest over whether to enforce terms of agreements with entities which mr. green, directly or indirectly, has an affiliation. alliance building services, or alliance, and its affiliates are partially owned by gary green, a son of stephen l. green, who serves as a member and as the chairman emeritus of our board of directors, and provide services to certain properties owned by us. alliance's affiliates include first quality maintenance, l.p., or first quality, classic security llc, bright star couriers llc and onyx restoration works, and provide cleaning, extermination, security, messenger, and restoration services, respectively. in addition, first quality has the non-exclusive opportunity to provide cleaning and related services to individual tenants at our properties on a basis separately negotiated with any tenant seeking such additional services. the service corporation has entered into an arrangement with alliance whereby it will receive a profit participation above a certain threshold for services provided by alliance to certain tenants at certain buildings above the base services specified in their lease agreements. our company and our tenants accounted for 22.70% of alliance's 2019 estimated total revenue, based on information provided to us by alliance. while we believe that the contracts pursuant to which these services are provided were the result of arm's length negotiations, there can be no assurance that the terms of such agreements, or dealings between the parties during the performance of such agreements, will be as favorable to us as those which could be obtained from unaffiliated third parties providing comparable services under similar circumstances. sl green's failure to qualify as a reit would be costly and would have a significant effect on the value of our securities. we believe we have operated in a manner for sl green to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes and intend to continue to so operate. many of the reit compliance requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. the determination that sl green is a reit requires an analysis of factual matters and circumstances. these matters, some of which are not totally within our control, can affect sl green's qualification as a reit. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income must come from designated sources that are listed in the reit tax laws. we are also required to distribute to stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income excluding capital gains. the fact that we hold our assets through the operating partnership and its subsidiaries further complicates the application of the reit requirements. even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our reit status. furthermore, congress and the internal revenue service, or the irs, might make changes to the tax laws and regulations that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified as a reit. if sl green fails to qualify as a reit, the funds available for distribution to our stockholders would be substantially reduced as we would not be allowed a deduction for dividends paid to our stockholders in computing our taxable income and would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates and possibly increased state and local taxes. also, unless the irs grants us relief under specific statutory provisions, sl green would remain disqualified as a reit for four years following the year in which sl green first failed to qualify. if sl green failed to qualify as a reit, sl green would 21 table of contents have to pay significant income taxes and would therefore have less money available for investments, to service debt obligations or to pay dividends and distributions to security holders. this would have a significant adverse effect on the value of our securities. in addition, the reit tax laws would no longer obligate us to make any distributions to stockholders. as a result of all these factors, if sl green fails to qualify as a reit, this could impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital. changes to u.s. federal income tax laws could materially and adversely affect us and our stockholders. the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act''), signed into law on december 22, 2017, made substantial changes to the code. the tax act did not have a material impact on our financial statements for the years ended december 31, 2019 or december 31, 2018 and we do not expect that it will have significant direct impact on us. however, it is possible that it could impact us indirectly, for example, because the overall investment thesis for reits may be impacted in positive or negative ways that are difficult to predict. in addition, while some treasury regulations have been issued with respect to the tax act, there may be a substantial delay before additional regulations are promulgated. additionally, the rules dealing with u.s. federal income taxation are continually under review by congress, the irs, and the u.s. department of the treasury. any such changes could have an adverse effect on an investment in our shares or on the market value or the resale potential of our assets. loss of our key personnel could harm our operations and our stock price. we are dependent on the efforts of marc holliday, our chairman and chief executive officer, and andrew w. mathias, our president. these officers have employment agreements which expire in january 2022 and december 2021, respectively. a loss of the services of either of these individuals could adversely affect our operations and could be negatively perceived by the market resulting in a decrease in our stock price. our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures or cyber security attacks. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to a number of risks including energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication failures and cyber attacks and intrusions, such as computer viruses, malware, attachments to e-mails, intrusion and unauthorized access, including from persons inside our organization or from persons outside our organization with access to our systems. the risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attacks and intrusions, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and instructions from around the world have increased. our systems are critical to the operation of our business and any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. we may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. although we make efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our systems and have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. any compromise of our security could also result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, loss or misuse of the information (which may be confidential, proprietary and/or commercially sensitive in nature) and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. forward-looking statements may prove inaccurate. see item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations forward-looking information," for additional disclosure regarding forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk see item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market rate risk" for additional information regarding our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. the table below presents the principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of our debt obligations and debt and preferred equity investments and the weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates, including as-of-right extension options, as of december 31, 2019 (in thousands): long-term debt debt and preferred equity investments (1) fixed rate average interest rate variable rate average interest rate amount weighted yield 2020 $ 261,118 3.93 % $ 207,706 3.16 % $ 769,661 8.26 % 2021 11,638 3.85 % 589,908 2.95 % 258,325 8.09 % 2022 1,007,985 3.86 % 330,820 2.97 % 226,448 11.23 % 2023 1,007,301 4.17 % 590,000 3.13 % 207,672 8.02 % 2024 278,781 4.25 % 200,000 3.37 % 12,950 9.41 % thereafter 966,626 4.31 % 100,000 3.64 % 105,250 7.77 % total $ 3,533,449 3.95 % $ 2,018,434 3.08 % $ 1,580,306 8.60 % fair value $ 3,642,770 $ 2,018,714 (1) our debt and preferred equity investments had an estimated fair value ranging between $1.6 billion and $1.7 billion at december 31, 2019 . the table below presents the principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of our share of our joint venture debt obligations and the weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates as of december 31, 2019 (in thousands): long term debt fixed rate average interest rate variable rate average interest rate 2020 $ 11,180 4.15 % $ 800,448 3.52 % 2021 11,715 4.16 % 793,561 3.39 % 2022 220,806 4.11 % 48,146 3.58 % 2023 271,090 3.94 % 40,346 4.21 % 2024 17,006 3.88 % 16 4.31 % thereafter 1,703,667 3.93 % 110,154 4.37 % total $ 2,235,464 4.07 % $ 1,792,671 3.66 % fair value $ 2,304,813 $ 1,796,808 56 table of contents the table below lists our consolidated derivative instruments, which are hedging variable rate debt, and their related fair values as of december 31, 2019 (in thousands): asset hedged benchmark rate notional value strike rate effective date expiration date fair value interest rate cap mortgage libor $ 300,000 3.750 % may 2019 may 2020 $ interest rate swap credit facility libor 100,000 1.928 % december 2017 november 2020 (281 ) interest rate swap mortgage libor 100,000 1.934 % december 2017 november 2020 (286 ) interest rate cap mortgage libor 111,869 3.500 % december 2019 december 2020 interest rate cap mortgage libor 85,000 4.000 % march 2019 march 2021 interest rate swap credit facility libor 200,000 1.131 % july 2016 july 2023 3,015 interest rate swap credit facility libor 100,000 1.161 % july 2016 july 2023 1,404 interest rate swap credit facility libor 150,000 2.696 % january 2019 january 2024 (6,570 ) interest rate swap credit facility libor 150,000 2.721 % january 2019 january 2026 (9,344 ) interest rate swap credit facility libor 200,000 2.740 % january 2019 january 2026 (12,629 ) total consolidated hedges $ (24,691 ) in addition to these derivative instruments, some of our joint venture loan agreements require the joint venture to purchase interest rate caps on its debt. all such interest rate caps represented an asset of $0.1 million in the aggregate at december 31, 2019 . we also swapped certain floating rate debt at some of our joint ventures. these swaps represented a liability of $0.2 million in the aggregate at december 31, 2019 . 57 table of contentsrisk factors declines in the demand for office space in new york city, and in particular, in midtown manhattan, as well as our suburban markets, including westchester county, connecticut, new jersey and long island, resulting from general economic conditions could adversely affect the value of our real estate portfolio and our results of operations and, consequently, our ability to service current debt and to pay dividends to stockholders. most of our commercial office properties are located in midtown manhattan. as a result, our business is dependent on the condition of the new york city economy in general and the market for office space in midtown manhattan, in particular. weakness in the new york city economy could materially reduce the value of our real estate portfolio and our rental revenues, and thus adversely affect our ability to service current debt and to pay dividends to stockholders. the manhattan vacancy rate continues to rise and is expected to exceed 10% by the end of 2009. we could also be impacted by weakness in our suburban markets, including westchester county, connecticut, new jersey and long island. we may be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases expire. when our tenants decide not to renew their leases upon their expiration, we may not be able to relet the space. even if tenants do renew or we can relet the space, the terms of renewal or reletting, including the cost of required renovations, may be less favorable than current lease terms. over the next five years, through the end of 2013, leases will expire on approximately 40.2% and 21.7% of the rentable square feet at our consolidated properties and unconsolidated joint venture properties, respectively. as of december 31, 2008, approximately 7.2 million and 2.5 million square feet are scheduled to expire by december 31, 2013 at our consolidated properties and unconsolidated joint venture properties, respectively, and these leases currently have annualized escalated rental income totaling approximately $305.9 million and $120.8 million, respectively. if we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet this space at similar rates, our cash flow and ability to service debt and pay dividends to stockholders would be adversely affected. the expiration of long term leases or operating sublease interests could adversely affect our results of operations. our interest in six of our commercial office properties is through either long-term leasehold or operating sublease interests in the land and the improvements, rather than by a fee interest in the land. unless we can purchase a fee interest in the underlying land or extend the terms of these leases before their expiration, we will lose our right to operate these properties and our interest in the improvements upon expiration of the leases, which would significantly adversely affect our results of operations. these properties are 673 first avenue, 420 lexington avenue, 461 fifth avenue, 711 third avenue, 625 madison avenue and 1185 avenue of the americas. the average remaining term of these long-term leases, including our unilateral extension rights on each of the properties, is approximately 34 years. pursuant to the operating sublease arrangements, we, as tenant under the operating sublease, perform the functions traditionally performed by landlords with respect to our subtenants. we are responsible for not only collecting rent from our subtenants, but also maintaining the property and paying expenses relating to the property. our share of annualized escalated rents of these properties at december 31, 2008 totaled approximately $227.2 million, or 21.8%, of our share of total portfolio annualized revenue associated with these properties. we have the ability to acquire the fee position at 461 fifth avenue for a fixed price on a specific date. 10 table of contents our results of operations rely on major tenants, including in the financial services sector, and insolvency, bankruptcy or receivership of these and other tenants could adversely affect our results of operations. giving effect to leases in effect as of december 31, 2008 for consolidated properties and unconsolidated joint venture properties as of that date, our five largest tenants, based on square footage leased, accounted for approximately 22.7% of our share of portfolio annualized rent, and, other than three tenants, citigroup inc. (and its affiliates), viacom international inc. and credit suisse securities (usa) llc who accounted for approximately 9.4%, 4.6% and 5.8% of our share of portfolio annualized rent, respectively, no tenant accounted for more than 2.2% of that total. in addition, the financial services sector accounted for approximately 41.0% of our total annualized revenues and 39.0% of our square feet leased of our portfolio. this sector is currently experiencing significant turmoil which has resulted in significant job losses. of our 30 largest tenants based on square feet leased, which accounted for approximately 47.2% of our share of portfolio annualized rent, 60.0% (inclusive of lease guarantors) carry an investment grade credit rating. if current economic conditions persist or deteriorate, we may experience increases in past due accounts, defaults, lower occupancy and reduced effective rents, particularly in respect of our financial service tenants. our business would be adversely affected if any of our major tenants or any other tenants became insolvent, declared bankruptcy, are put into receivership or otherwise refused to pay rent in a timely fashion or at all. adverse economic and geopolitical conditions in general and the northeastern commercial office markets in particular could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. our business may be affected by the unprecedented volatility and illiquidity in the financial and credit markets, the general global economic recession, and other market or economic challenges experienced by the u.s. economy or real estate industry as a whole. our business may also be adversely affected by local economic conditions, as substantially all of our revenues are derived from our properties located in the northeast, particularly in new york, westchester county and connecticut. because our portfolio consists primarily of commercial office buildings (as compared to a more diversified real estate portfolio) located principally in manhattan, if economic conditions persist or deteriorate, then our results of operations, financial condition and ability to service current debt and to pay distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected by the following, among other potential conditions: significant job losses in the financial and professional services industries have occurred and may continue to occur, which may decrease demand for our office space, causing market rental rates and property values to be negatively impacted; our ability to borrow on terms and conditions that we find acceptable, or at all, may be limited, which could reduce our ability to pursue acquisition and development opportunities and refinance existing debt, reduce our returns from both our existing operations and our acquisition and development activities and increase our future interest expense; reduced values of our properties may limit our ability to dispose of assets at attractive prices or to obtain debt financing secured by our properties and may reduce the availability of unsecured loans; and reduced liquidity in debt markets and increased credit risk premiums for certain market participants may impair our ability to access capital. these conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions, may continue or worsen in the future. 11 table of contents there can be no assurance that the actions of the u.s. government, federal reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets, or market response to those actions, will achieve the intended effect, our business may not benefit from these actions and further government or market developments could adversely impact us. in response to the financial issues affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, the emergency economic stabilization act of 2008, or the eesa, was enacted in october 2008. the eesa authorized the u.s. secretary of treasury to create a troubled asset relief program, or tarp, to, among other things, purchase from financial institutions up to $700 billion of residential or commercial mortgages and any securities, obligations, or other instruments that are based on, or related to, such mortgages, that in each case was originated or issued on or before march 14, 2008. the essa also provides for a program that would allow companies to insure their troubled assets. the u.s. treasury has announced the establishment of the following programs under tarp: the capital purchase program, the targeted investment program, the systemically failing institutions program and the asset guarantee program. in addition, the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009, or arra, was signed into law on february 17, 2009. arra includes a wide variety of programs intended to stimulate the economy and provide for extensive infrastructure, energy, health and education needs. arra also imposes certain new executive compensation and corporate expenditure limits on all current and future tarp recipients. there can be no assurance that these programs will have a beneficial impact on the financial markets, generally, or on our business in particular. in addition, the u.s. government, federal reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to address the financial crisis. we cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur or what impact, if any, such actions could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may suffer adverse consequences if our revenues decline since our operating costs do not necessarily decline in proportion to our revenue. we earn a significant portion of our income from renting our properties. our operating costs, however, do not necessarily fluctuate in relation to changes in our rental revenue. this means that our costs will not necessarily decline even if our revenues do. our operating costs could also increase while our revenues do not. if our operating costs increase but our rental revenues do not, we may be forced to borrow to cover our costs, we may incur losses and we may not have cash available for distributions to our stockholders. we face risks associated with property acquisitions. we may acquire individual properties and portfolios of properties, including large portfolios that could significantly increase our size and alter our capital structure. our acquisition activities and their success may be exposed to the following risks: we may be unable to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well capitalized real estate investors, including publicly traded reits, private real estate funds, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, pension trusts, partnerships and individual investors; even if we enter into an acquisition agreement for a property, it is usually subject to customary conditions to closing, including due diligence investigations to our satisfaction; even if we are able to acquire a desired property, competition from other real estate investors may significantly increase the purchase price; 12 table of contents we may be unable to finance acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; acquired properties may fail to perform as we expected; our estimates of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping acquired properties may be inaccurate; we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for new properties; acquired properties may be located in new markets where we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, lack of business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures; and we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and as a result our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. as a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. unknown liabilities with respect to properties acquired might include: liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination; claims by tenants, vendors or other persons dealing with the former owners of the properties; liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. competition for acquisitions may reduce the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and increase the costs of those acquisitions. we plan to continue to acquire properties as we are presented with attractive opportunities. we may face competition for acquisition opportunities with other investors, particularly private investors who can incur more leverage, and this competition may adversely affect us by subjecting us to the following risks: an inability to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well-capitalized real estate investors, including publicly traded and privately held reits, private real estate funds, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, pension trusts, partnerships and individual investors; and an increase in the purchase price for such acquisition property, in the event we are able to acquire such desired property. we rely on eight large properties for a significant portion of our revenue. as of december 31, 2008, eight of our properties, 420 lexington avenue, 220 east 42 nd street, one madison avenue, 485 lexington avenue, 1185 avenue of the americas, 1221 avenue of the americas, 1515 broadway and 388/390 greenwich street, accounted for approximately 46% of our portfolio annualized rent, including our share of joint venture annualized rent, and no single property accounted for more than approximately 7% of our portfolio annualized rent, including our share of joint venture annualized rent. our revenue and cash available for distribution to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected if the ground lease for the 420 lexington avenue or 1185 avenue of the americas property were terminated for any reason or if one or all of these properties were materially damaged or destroyed. additionally, our revenue and cash available for distribution to 13 table of contents our stockholders would be materially adversely affected if our tenants at these properties experienced a downturn in their business which may weaken their financial condition and result in their failure to timely make rental payments, defaulting under their leases or filing for bankruptcy. the continuing threat of terrorist attacks may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to generate cash flow. there may be a decrease in demand for space in new york city because it is considered at risk for future terrorist attacks, and this decrease may reduce our revenues from property rentals. in the aftermath of a terrorist attack, tenants in the new york city area may choose to relocate their business to less populated, lower-profile areas of the united states that are not as likely to be targets of future terrorist activity. this in turn would trigger a decrease in the demand for space in the new york city area, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease our properties on less favorable terms. as a result, the value of our properties and the level of our revenues could materially decline. a terrorist attack could cause insurance premiums to increase significantly. we maintain "all-risk" property and rental value coverage (including coverage regarding the perils of flood, earthquake and terrorism) within two property insurance portfolios and liability insurance. the first property portfolio maintains a blanket limit of $600.0 million per occurrence for the majority of the new york city properties in our portfolio with a sub-limit of $450.0 million for acts of terrorism. the second portfolio maintains a limit of $600.0 million per occurrence, including terrorism, for a few new york city properties and the majority of the suburban properties. both property policies expire on december 31, 2009. additional coverage may be purchased on a stand-alone basis for certain assets. the liability policies cover all our properties and provide limits of $200.0 million per property. the liability policies expire on october 31, 2009. in october 2006, we formed a wholly-owned taxable reit subsidiary, belmont insurance company, or belmont, to act as a captive insurance company and be one of the elements of our overall insurance program. belmont was formed in an effort to, among other reasons, stabilize to some extent the fluctuations of insurance market conditions. belmont is licensed in new york to write terrorism, nbcr (nuclear, biological, chemical, and radiological), general liability and d&amp;o coverage. terrorism: belmont acts as a direct property insurer with respect to a portion of our terrorism coverage for the new york city properties. effective december 31, 2008, belmont increased its terrorism coverage from $50 million to $250 million in an upper layer. in addition, belmont purchased reinsurance to reinsure the retained insurable risk not otherwise covered under terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization and extension act of 2007, or tripra, as detailed below. nbcr: belmont acts as a direct insurer of nbcr coverage up to $250 million on the entire property portfolio. general liability: belmont insures a deductible on the general liability insurance with a $250,000 deductible per occurrence and a $2.4 million annual aggregate stop loss limit. we have secured an excess insurer to protect against catastrophic liability losses above the $250,000 deductible per occurrence and a stop loss if aggregate claims exceed $2.4 million. belmont has retained a third party administrator to manage all claims within the deductible and we anticipate that direct management of liability claims will improve loss experience and ultimately lower the cost of liability insurance in future years. in addition, we have an umbrella liability policy of $200.0 million. 14 table of contents d&amp;o: effective august 10, 2008, a directors and officers liability policy was added by belmont to provide reimbursement for sec claims reducing the deductible from $2,500,000 to $1,000,000. as long as we own belmont, we are responsible for its liquidity and capital resources, and the accounts of belmont are part of our consolidated financial statements. if we experience a loss and belmont is required to pay under its insurance policy, we would ultimately record the loss to the extent of belmont's required payment. therefore, insurance coverage provided by belmont should not be considered as the equivalent of third-party insurance, but rather as a modified form of self-insurance. tria, which was enacted in november 2002, was renewed on december 31, 2007. congress extended tria, now called tripra (terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization and extension act of 2007) until december 31, 2014. the law extends the federal terrorism insurance program that requires insurance companies to offer terrorism coverage and provides for compensation for insured losses resulting from acts of foreign and domestic terrorism. our debt instruments, consisting of mortgage loans secured by our properties (which are generally non-recourse to us), mezzanine loans, ground leases and our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility, contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance. there can be no assurance that the lenders or ground lessors under these instruments will not take the position that a total or partial exclusion from "all-risk" insurance coverage for losses due to terrorist acts is a breach of these debt and ground lease instruments that allows the lenders or ground lessors to declare an event of default and accelerate repayment of debt or recapture of ground lease positions. in addition, if lenders insist on full coverage for these risks and prevail in asserting that we are required to maintain such coverage, it could result in substantially higher insurance premiums. we have a 45% interest in the property at 1221 avenue of the americas, where we participate with the rockefeller group inc., which carries a blanket policy providing $1.0 billion of "all-risk" property insurance, including terrorism coverage, and a 49.9% interest in the property at 100 park avenue, where we participate with prudential, which carries a blanket policy of $500.0 million of "all-risk" property insurance, including terrorism coverage. we own one madison avenue, which is under a triple net lease with insurance provided by the tenant, credit suisse securities (usa) llc, or cs. we monitor the coverage provided by cs to make sure that our asset is adequately protected. we own 388 and 390 greenwich street, which is leased on a triple net basis to citigroup, n.a, which provides insurance coverage directly. we monitor all triple net leases to ensure that tenants are providing adequate coverage. although we consider our insurance coverage to be appropriate, in the event of a major catastrophe, such as an act of terrorism, we may not have sufficient coverage to replace certain properties. our dependence on smaller and growth-oriented businesses to rent our office space could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. many of the tenants in our properties are smaller, growth-oriented businesses that may not have the financial strength of larger corporate tenants. smaller companies generally experience a higher rate of failure than large businesses. growth-oriented firms may also seek other office space, including class a space, as they develop. dependence on these companies could create a higher risk of tenant defaults, turnover and bankruptcies, which could adversely affect our distributable cash flow and results of operations. debt financing, financial covenants, degree of leverage, and increases in interest rates could adversely affect our economic performance. scheduled debt payments could adversely affect our results of operations. the total principal amount of our outstanding consolidated indebtedness was approximately $5.6 billion as of december 31, 2008, consisting of approximately $1.4 billion under our 2007 unsecured 15 table of contents revolving credit facility, $1.5 billion under our senior unsecured notes, $100.0 million under our junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures and approximately $2.6 billion of non-recourse mortgage loans on seventeen of our properties. in addition, we could increase the amount of our outstanding indebtedness in the future, in part by borrowing under our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility, which had $55.5 million available for draw as of december 31, 2008. our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility matures in june 2011 and has a one-year as-of-right extension option. as of december 31, 2008, the total principal amount of non-recourse indebtedness outstanding at the joint venture properties was approximately $4.4 billion, of which our proportionate share was approximately $1.9 billion. cash flow could be insufficient to pay distributions at expected levels and meet the payments of principal and interest required under our current mortgage indebtedness, 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility, senior unsecured notes, debentures and indebtedness outstanding at our joint venture properties. if we are unable to make payments under our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility, all amounts due and owing at such time shall accrue interest at a rate equal to 4% higher than the rate at which each draw was made. if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property, resulting in loss of income and asset value. foreclosure on mortgaged properties or an inability to make payments under our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to refinance existing indebtedness, which in all cases requires substantial principal payments at maturity. in 2009, approximately $200.0 million of corporate indebtedness, and $823.1 million of debt on our unconsolidated joint venture properties will mature. there are no debt maturities in 2009 on our consolidated properties. we have an as-of-right extension option on $625.0 million of our unconsolidated joint venture debt included in the 2009 maturities. at the present time, we intend to exercise extension options or refinance the debt associated with our properties on or prior to their respective maturity dates. if any principal payments due at maturity cannot be refinanced, extended or paid with proceeds of other capital transactions, such as new equity capital, our cash flow will not be sufficient in all years to repay all maturing debt. at the time of refinancing, prevailing interest rates or other factors, such as the possible reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans, may result in higher interest rates. increased interest expense on the refinanced debt would adversely affect cash flow and our ability to service debt and make distributions to stockholders. financial covenants could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. the mortgages and mezzanine loans on our properties contain customary negative covenants that limit our ability to further mortgage the property, to enter into new leases or materially modify existing leases, and to discontinue insurance coverage. in addition, our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility contains customary restrictions and requirements on our method of operations. our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility and senior unsecured bonds also require us to maintain designated ratios of total debt-to-assets, debt service coverage and unencumbered assets-to-unsecured debt. these restrictions could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. rising interest rates could adversely affect our cash flow. advances under our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility and certain property-level mortgage debt bear interest at a variable rate. these variable rate borrowings totaled approximately $1.6 billion at december 31, 2008. in addition, we could increase the amount of our outstanding variable rate debt in the future, in part by borrowing under our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility, which had $55.5 million available for draw as of december 31, 2008. borrowings under our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility bear interest at a spread equal to the 30-day libor, plus 90 basis points. as of 16 table of contents december 31, 2008, borrowings under our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility and junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures totaled $1.4 billion, and $100.0 million, respectively, and bore interest at 3.58% and 5.61%, respectively. we may incur indebtedness in the future that also bears interest at a variable rate or may be required to refinance our debt at higher rates. accordingly, increases in interest rates above that which we anticipated based upon historical trends could adversely affect our ability to continue to make distributions to stockholders. at december 31, 2008, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates along the entire interest rate curve would increase our annual interest costs by approximately $15.3 million and would increase our share of joint venture annual interest costs by approximately $7.4 million. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect results of operations. the interest rate hedge instruments we use to manage some of our exposure to interest rate volatility involve risk, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. in addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. no limitation on debt could adversely affect our cash flow. our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness we may incur. as of december 31, 2008, assuming the conversion of all outstanding units of the operating partnership into shares of our common stock, our combined debt-to-market capitalization ratio, including our share of joint venture debt of approximately $1.9 billion, was approximately 81.0%. we have historically targeted a debt-to-market capitalization less than this. however, due to the significant decrease in our stock price we are currently operating in excess of that threshold. we are currently undertaking steps aimed at reducing our debt. any changes that increase our debt to market capitalization percentage could be viewed negatively by investors. as a result, our stock price could decrease. our market capitalization is variable and does not necessarily reflect the fair market value of our assets at all times. we also consider factors other than market capitalization in making decisions regarding the incurrence of indebtedness, such as the purchase price of properties to be acquired with debt financing, the estimated market value of our properties upon refinancing and the ability of particular properties and our business as a whole to generate cash flow to cover expected debt service. structured finance investments could cause us to incur expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we owned mezzanine loans, junior participations and preferred equity interests in 29 investments with an aggregate book value of approximately $747.9 million at december 31, 2008. such investments may or may not be recourse obligations of the borrower and are not insured or guaranteed by governmental agencies or otherwise. in the event of a default under these obligations, we may have to realize upon our collateral and thereafter make substantial improvements or repairs to the underlying real estate in order to maximize the property's investment potential. borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against such enforcement and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce their obligation to us. relatively high loan-to-value ratios and declines in the value of the property may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our investment upon foreclosure or realization. in addition, under the origination agreement with gramercy, we are precluded from making certain types of structured finance investments. 17 table of contents we maintain and regularly evaluate financial reserves to protect against potential future losses. our reserves reflect management's judgment of the probability and severity of losses. we cannot be certain that our judgment will prove to be correct and that reserves will be adequate over time to protect against potential future losses because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific properties, assets, tenants, borrowers, industries in which our tenants and borrowers operate or markets in which our tenants and borrowers or their properties are located. we believe the increase in our non-performing loans has been driven by the worsening economy and the seizure of the credit markets, which have adversely impacted the ability of many of our borrowers to service their debt and refinance our loans to them at maturity. we have significantly increased our provision for loan losses in 2008 based upon the performance of our assets and conditions in the financial markets and overall economy, which deteriorated precipitously in the fourth quarter of 2008. if our reserves for credit losses prove inadequate, we could suffer losses which would have a material adverse affect on our financial performance, the market prices of our securities and our ability to pay dividends. joint investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority and reliance upon a co-venturer's financial condition. we co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures, co-tenancies or other entities, acquiring non-controlling interests in, or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of, a property, partnership, joint venture, co-tenancy or other entity. therefore, we will not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding that property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. investments in partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities may involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that our partners, co-tenants or co-venturers might become bankrupt or otherwise fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. additionally, our partners or co-venturers might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals, which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals. these investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions such as a sale, because neither we nor the partner, co-tenant or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. consequently, actions by such partner, co-tenant or co-venturer might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. in addition, we may in specific circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners, co-tenants or co-venturers. as of december 31, 2008, our unconsolidated joint ventures owned 19 properties and we had an aggregate cost basis in the joint ventures totaling approximately $1.0 billion. as of december 31, 2008, our share of joint venture debt totaled approximately $1.9 billion. our joint venture agreements may contain terms in favor of our partners that could have an adverse effect on the value of our investments in the joint ventures. each of our joint venture agreements has been individually negotiated with our partner in the joint venture and, in some cases, we have agreed to terms that are favorable to our partner in the joint venture. for example, our partner may be entitled to a specified portion of the profits of the joint venture before we are entitled to any portion of such profits and our partner may have rights to buy our interest in the joint venture, to force us to buy the partner's interest in the joint venture or to compel the sale of the property owned by such joint venture. these rights may permit our partner in a particular joint venture to obtain a greater benefit from the value or profits of the joint venture than us, which could have an adverse effect on the value of our investment in the joint venture and on our financial condition and results of operations. we may also enter into similar arrangements in the future. 18 table of contents we are subject to possible environmental liabilities and other possible liabilities. we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws. these laws regulate our use, storage, disposal and management of hazardous substances and wastes and can impose liability on property owners or operators for the clean-up of certain hazardous substances released on a property and any associated damage to natural resources without regard to whether the release was legal or whether it was caused by the property owner or operator. the presence of hazardous substances on our properties may adversely affect occupancy and our ability to develop or sell or borrow against those properties. in addition to potential liability for clean-up costs, private plaintiffs may bring claims for personal injury, property damage or for similar reasons. various laws also impose liability for the clean-up of contamination at any facility (e.g., a landfill) to which we have sent hazardous substances for treatment or disposal, without regard to whether the materials were transported, treated and disposed in accordance with law. we may incur significant costs complying with the americans with disabilities act and similar laws. our properties may be subject to other risks relating to current or future laws including laws benefiting disabled persons, and other state or local zoning, construction or other regulations. these laws may require significant property modifications in the future for which we may not have budgeted and could result in fines being levied against us. the occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse impact on our cash flows and ability to make distributions to stockholders. under the americans with disabilities act, or ada, all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. additional federal, state and local laws also may require modifications to our properties, or restrict our ability to renovate our properties. we have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance. if one or more of our properties is not in compliance with the ada or other legislation, then we would be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance. we cannot predict the ultimate amount of the cost of compliance with ada or other legislation. if we incur substantial costs to comply with the ada and any other legislation, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and/or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders could be adversely affected. our charter documents and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us, which could discourage takeover attempts and prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium over the market price of our stock. provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws could inhibit changes in control. a change of control of our company could benefit stockholders by providing them with a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our stock. however, provisions contained in our articles of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent a change in control of our company. these provisions, discussed more fully below, are: staggered board of directors; ownership limitations; the board of director's ability to issue additional common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval; and stockholder rights plan. 19 table of contents our board of directors is staggered into three separate classes. the board of directors of our company is divided into three classes. the terms of the class i, class ii and class iii directors expire in 2010, 2011 and 2009, respectively. our staggered board may deter changes in control because of the increased time period necessary for a third party to acquire control of the board. we have a stock ownership limit. to remain qualified as a reit for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of any taxable year. for this purpose, stock may be "owned" directly, as well as indirectly under certain constructive ownership rules, including, for example, rules that attribute stock held by one family member to another family member. in part, to avoid violating this rule regarding stock ownership limitations and maintain our reit qualification, our articles of incorporation prohibit ownership by any single stockholder of more than 9.0% in value or number of shares of our common stock. limitations on the ownership of preferred stock may also be imposed by us. the board of directors has the discretion to raise or waive this limitation on ownership for any stockholder if deemed to be in our best interest. to obtain a waiver, a stockholder must present the board and our tax counsel with evidence that ownership in excess of this limit will not affect our present or future reit status. absent any exemption or waiver, stock acquired or held in excess of the limit on ownership will be transferred to a trust for the exclusive benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary, and the stockholder's rights to distributions and to vote would terminate. the stockholder would be entitled to receive, from the proceeds of any subsequent sale of the shares transferred to the charitable trust, the lesser of: the price paid for the stock or, if the owner did not pay for the stock, the market price of the stock on the date of the event causing the stock to be transferred to the charitable trust; and the amount realized from the sale. this limitation on ownership of stock could delay or prevent a change in control. we have a stockholder rights plan. we adopted a stockholder rights plan which provides, among other things, that when specified events occur, our stockholders will be entitled to purchase from us a newly created series of junior preferred shares, subject to our ownership limit described above. the preferred share purchase rights are triggered by the earlier to occur of (1) ten days after the date of a public announcement that a person or group acting in concert has acquired, or obtained the right to acquire, beneficial ownership of 17% or more of our outstanding shares of common stock or (2) ten business days after the commencement of or announcement of an intention to make a tender offer or exchange offer, the consummation of which would result in the acquiring person becoming the beneficial owner of 17% or more of our outstanding common stock. the preferred share purchase rights would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors. debt may not be assumable. we have approximately $3.0 billion in unsecured corporate debt. this debt may be unassumable by a potential purchaser and may be subject to significant prepayment penalties. 20 table of contents maryland takeover statutes may prevent a change of control of our company, which could depress our stock price. under maryland law, "business combinations" between a maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. these business combinations include a merger, consolidation, stock exchange, or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. an interested stockholder is defined as: any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation's outstanding shares; or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock of the corporation. a person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if the board of directors approves in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. after the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by the board of directors of the corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least: 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation, voting together as a single group; and two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder. the business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer, including potential acquisitions that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. in addition, maryland law provides that "control shares" of a maryland corporation acquired in a "control share acquisition" will have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares of stock owned by the acquiror, by officers of the target corporation or by directors who are employees of the corporation, under the maryland control share acquisition act. "control shares" means voting shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock owned by the acquiror or in respect of which the acquiror is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of voting power: (i) one-tenth or more but less than one-third, (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority, or (iii) a majority or more of all voting power. a "control share acquisition" means the acquisition of ownership of, or the power to direct the exercise of voting power with respect to, issued and outstanding control shares, subject to certain exceptions. we have opted out of these provisions of the maryland general corporation law, or the mgcl, with respect to business combinations and control share acquisitions by resolution of our board of directors and a provision in our bylaws, respectively. however, in the future, our board of directors may reverse its decision by resolution and elect to opt in to the mgcl's business combination provisions, or amend our bylaws and elect to opt in to the mgcl's control share provisions. additionally, title 8, subtitle 3 of the mgcl permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses, some of which we do not have. such takeover defenses, if implemented, may have the effect of 21 table of contents inhibiting a third party from making us an acquisition proposal or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with an opportunity to realize a premium over the then-current market price. future issuances of common stock and preferred stock could dilute existing stockholders' interests. our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue additional shares of common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval. any such issuance could dilute our existing stockholders' interests. also, any future series of preferred stock may have voting provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control. changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. as with other publicly traded equity securities, the value of our common stock depends on various market conditions, which may change from time to time. among the market conditions that may affect the value of our common stock are the following: the extent of your interest in us; the general reputation of reits and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies; our financial performance; and general stock and bond market conditions. the market value of our common stock is based primarily upon the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash dividends. consequently, our common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share of common stock. if our future earnings or cash dividends are less than expected, it is likely that the market price of our common stock will diminish. market interest rates may have an effect on the value of our common stock. if market interest rates go up, prospective purchasers of shares of our common stock may expect a higher distribution rate on our common stock. higher market interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for us to distribute and, to the contrary, would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of our common stock to go down. there are potential conflicts of interest between us and mr. green. there is a potential conflict of interest relating to the disposition of the property contributed to us by stephen l. green, and his family. mr. green serves as the chairman of our board of directors and is an executive officer. as part of our formation, mr. green contributed appreciated property, with a net book value of $73.5 million, to the operating partnership in exchange for units of limited partnership interest in the operating partnership. he did not recognize any taxable gain as a result of the contribution. the operating partnership, however, took a tax basis in the contributed property equal to that of the contributing unitholder. the fair market value of the property contributed by him exceeded his tax basis by approximately $34.0 million at the time of contribution. the difference between fair market value and tax basis at the time of contribution represents a built-in gain. if we sell a property in a transaction in which a taxable gain is recognized, for tax purposes the built-in gain would be allocated solely to him and not to us. as a result, mr. green has a conflict of interest if the sale of a property, which he contributed, is in our best interest but not his. 22 table of contents there is a potential conflict of interest relating to the refinancing of indebtedness specifically allocated to mr. green. mr. green would recognize gain if he were to receive a distribution of cash from the operating partnership in an amount that exceeds his tax basis in his partnership units. his tax basis includes his share of debt, including mortgage indebtedness, owed by our operating partnership. if our operating partnership were to retire such debt, then he would experience a decrease in his share of liabilities, which, for tax purposes, would be treated as a distribution of cash to him. to the extent the deemed distribution of cash exceeded his tax basis, he would recognize gain. limitations on our ability to sell or reduce the indebtedness on specific mortgaged properties could adversely affect the value of the stock. we have agreed to restrictions relating to future transactions involving 673 first avenue. during the period of time that these restrictions apply, our ability to manage or use this property in a manner that is in our overall best interests may be impaired. in particular, these restrictions could preclude us from participating in major transactions otherwise favorable to us if a disposition of this restricted asset is required. these restrictions may also inhibit a change in control of our company even though a disposition or change in control might be in the best interests of the stockholders. specifically, we have agreed not to sell our interest in 673 first avenue until august 20, 2009 without the approval of unitholders holding at least 75% of the units issued in consideration for this property. the current gross carrying value of the commercial real estate of this property totaled approximately $49.8 million at december 31, 2008. we have also agreed not to reduce the mortgage indebtedness (approximately $32.4 million at december 31, 2008), other than pursuant to scheduled amortization, on 673 first avenue until one year prior to its maturity date without the same consent. in addition, we are obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to refinance this mortgage prior to its maturity date in an amount not less than the principal amount outstanding on the maturity date. with respect to 673 first avenue, mr. green controls at least 75% of the units whose approval is necessary. finally, during this period, we may not incur debt secured by this property if the amount of our new debt would exceed the greater of 75% of the value of the property securing the debt or the amount of existing debt being refinanced plus associated costs. the maturity date for the mortgage loan for 673 first avenue is february 11, 2013. in addition, on may 15, 2002, we acquired the property located at 1515 broadway, new york, new york. under a tax protection agreement established to protect the limited partners of the partnership that transferred 1515 broadway to us, we have agreed not to take certain action that would adversely affect the limited partners' tax positions before december 31, 2011. we also acquired the property located at 220 east 42nd street, new york, new york, on february 13, 2003. we have agreed not to take certain action that would adversely affect the tax positions of certain of the partners who held interests in this property prior to the acquisition for a period of seven years after the acquisition. we also acquired the property located at 625 madison avenue, new york, new york, on october 19, 2004 and have agreed not to take certain action that would adversely affect the tax positions of certain of the partners who held interests in this property prior to the acquisition, for a period of seven years after the acquisition. in connection with future acquisitions of interests in properties, we may agree to similar restrictions on our ability to sell or refinance the acquired properties with similar potential adverse consequences. 23 table of contents we face potential conflicts of interest. members of management may have a conflict of interest over whether to enforce terms of agreements with entities in which senior management, directly or indirectly, has an interest. through alliance building services, or alliance, first quality maintenance, l.p., or first quality, provides cleaning, extermination and related services, classic security llc provides security services, bright star couriers llc provides messenger services, and onyx restoration works provides restoration services with respect to certain properties owned by us. alliance is owned by gary green, a son of stephen l. green, the chairman of our board of directors. our company and our tenants accounted for approximately 28% of alliance's 2008 estimated total revenue. the contracts pursuant to which these services are provided are not the result of arm's length negotiations and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the terms and conditions are not less favorable than those which could be obtained from third parties providing comparable services. in addition, to the extent that we choose to enforce our rights under any of these agreements, we may determine to pursue available remedies, such as actions for damages or injunctive relief, less vigorously than we otherwise might because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with the individual involved. members of management may have a conflict of interest over whether to enforce terms of senior management's employment and noncompetition agreements. stephen green, marc holliday, gregory f. hughes, andrew levine and andrew mathias entered into employment and noncompetition agreements with us pursuant to which they have agreed not to actively engage in the acquisition, development or operation of office real estate in the new york city metropolitan area. for the most part, these restrictions apply to the executive both during his employment and for a period of time thereafter. each executive is also prohibited from otherwise disrupting or interfering with our business through the solicitation of our employees or clients or otherwise. to the extent that we choose to enforce our rights under any of these agreements, we may determine to pursue available remedies, such as actions for damages or injunctive relief, less vigorously than we otherwise might because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with the individual involved. additionally, the non-competition provisions of these agreements despite being limited in scope and duration, could be difficult to enforce, or may be subject to limited enforcement, should litigation arise over them in the future. mr. green has interests in two properties in manhattan, which are exempt from the non-competition provisions of his employment and non-competition agreement. our failure to qualify as a reit would be costly. we believe we have operated in a manner to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes and intend to continue to so operate. many of these requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. the determination that we are a reit requires an analysis of factual matters and circumstances. these matters, some of which may not be totally within our control, can affect our qualification as a reit. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income must come from designated sources that are listed in the reit tax laws. we are also required to distribute to stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income excluding capital gains. the fact that we hold our assets through the operating partnership and its subsidiaries further complicates the application of the reit requirements. even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our reit status. furthermore, congress and the internal revenue service, which we refer to as the irs, might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified as a reit. if we fail to qualify as a reit, we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. also, unless the irs grants us relief under specific statutory provisions, we would remain disqualified as a reit for four years following the year we first failed to qualify. if we failed to qualify as a reit, we would have to pay significant income taxes and would therefore have less money 24 table of contents available for investments or for distributions to stockholders. this would likely have a significant adverse effect on the value of our securities. in addition, the reit tax laws would no longer require us to make any distributions to stockholders. previously enacted tax legislation reduces tax rates for dividends paid by non-reit corporations. under certain previously enacted tax legislation, the maximum tax rate on dividends to individuals has generally been reduced from 38.6% to 15% (from january 1, 2003 through december 31, 2010). the reduction in rates on dividends is generally not applicable to dividends paid by a reit except in limited circumstances that we do not contemplate. although this legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of reits or dividends paid by reits, the favorable treatment of regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals to consider stock of non-reit corporations that pay dividends as relatively more attractive than stocks of reits. it is not possible to determine whether such a change in perceived relative value has occurred or what the effect, if any, this legislation has had or will have in the future on the market price of our stock. we are dependent on external sources of capital. because of distribution requirements imposed on us to qualify as a reit, it is not likely that we will be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisitions, from income from operations. we therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. in addition, we anticipate having to raise money in the public equity and debt markets with some regularity and our ability to do so will depend upon the general conditions prevailing in these markets. at any time conditions may exist which effectively prevent us, and reits in general, from accessing these markets. moreover, additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of our stockholders' interests, and additional debt financing may substantially increase our leverage. due to the current financial crisis and the lack of liquidity in the market, such capital may not be available. we face significant competition for tenants. the leasing of real estate is highly competitive. the principal means of competition are rent charged, location, services provided and the nature and condition of the facility to be leased. we directly compete with all lessors and developers of similar space in the areas in which our properties are located. demand for retail space has been impacted by the recent bankruptcy of a number of retail companies and a general trend toward consolidation in the retail industry, which could adversely affect the ability of our company to attract and retain tenants. our commercial office properties are concentrated in highly developed areas of midtown manhattan and certain suburban central business districts, or cbd's. manhattan is the largest office market in the united states. the number of competitive office properties in manhattan and cbd's in which our suburban properties are located (which may be newer or better located than our properties) could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease office space at our properties, and on the effective rents we are able to charge. loss of our key personnel could harm our operations. we are dependent on the efforts of stephen l. green, the chairman of our board of directors and an executive officer, marc holliday, our chief executive officer, andrew mathias, our president and chief investment officer and gregory f. hughes, our chief operating officer and chief financial officer. these officers have employment agreements which expire in december 2009, january 2010, december 2010, and december 2009, respectively. a loss of the services of any of these individuals could adversely affect our operations. 25 table of contents our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. we may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. compliance with changing regulation applicable to corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses, affect our operations and affect our reputation. changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and new sec regulations and new york stock exchange rules, are creating uncertainty for public companies. these new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. we are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. as a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. in particular, our efforts to comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors' audit of that assessment has required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. in addition, it has become more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. further, our directors, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. as a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified directors and executive officers, which could harm our business. if our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. forward-looking statements may prove inaccurate see item 7 "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations forward-looking information" for additional disclosure regarding forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk see item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market rate risk" for additional information regarding our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. 68 table of contents the table below presents principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of our debt obligations and structured finance investments and the related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates, excluding extension options, as of december 31, 2008 (in thousands): long-term debt structured finance investments date fixed rate average interest rate variable rate average interest rate amount weighted yield 2009 $ 226,750 5.28 % $ 1,374 3.80 % $ 138,209 9.14 % 2010 132,779 5.23 % 129,473 3.75 % 164,676 11.55 % 2011 453,461 5.10 % 1,351,829 3.92 % % 2012 29,845 5.04 % 1,692 6.22 % % 2013 332,536 5.02 % 118,737 6.22 % % thereafter 2,837,897 3.86 % % 444,998 9.68 % total $ 4,013,268 3.86 % $ 1,603,105 3.92 % $ 747,883 (1) 9.99 % fair value $ 3,002,800 $ 1,474,100 (1) our structured finance investments had an estimated fair value ranging between $408.0 million and $612.0 million at december 31, 2008. the table below presents the gross principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of our share of our joint venture debt obligations and the related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates as of december 31, 2008 (in thousands): long term debt date fixed rate average interest rate variable rate average interest rate 2009(1) $ 438 4.44 % $ 398,576 4.08 % 2010 29,955 4.44 % 86,239 4.54 % 2011 1,702 4.41 % 169,583 4.97 % 2012 13,330 4.40 % 20,862 3.98 % 2013 1,677 4.40 % % thereafter 1,203,175 4.02 % 8,095 3.51 % total $ 1,250,277 4.31 % $ 683,355 4.30 % fair value $ 1,053,200 $ 639,600 (1) included in this item is $343,750 based on the contractual maturity date of the debt on 1515 broadway. this loan has a one-year as-of-right extension option. the table below lists all of our derivative instruments, which are hedging variable rate debt, including joint ventures, and their related fair value as of december 31, 2008 (in thousands): asset hedged benchmark rate notional value strike rate effective date expiration date fair value interest rate swap credit facility libor $ 60,000 4.364 % 1/2007 5/2010 $ (2,703 ) interest rate swap anticipated debt 10-year treasury 105,000 4.910 % 12/2009 12/2019 (18,586 ) interest rate swap anticipated debt 10-year treasury 100,000 4.705 % 12/2009 12/2019 (15,998 ) interest rate cap mortgage libor 128,000 6.000 % 1/2007 2/2009 total consolidated hedges $ 393,000 $ (37,287 ) in addition to these derivative instruments, some of our joint venture loan agreements require the joint venture to purchase interest rate caps on its debt. all such interest rate caps were out of the money and had no value at december 31, 2008. one of our joint ventures had a libor swap in place on a national amount of $560.0 million. this hedge, which matures in december 2017, had a fair value of approximately $(48.0) million at december 31, 2008. 69 table of contentsrisk factors declines in the demand for office space in new york city, and in particular, in midtown manhattan, as well as our suburban markets, including westchester county, connecticut, new jersey and long island, resulting from general economic conditions could adversely affect the value of our real estate portfolio and our results of operations and, consequently, our ability to service current debt and to pay dividends to stockholders. most of our commercial office properties are located in midtown manhattan. as a result, our business is dependent on the condition of the new york city economy in general and the market for office space in midtown manhattan, in particular. weakness in the new york city economy could materially reduce the value of our real estate portfolio and our rental revenues, and thus adversely affect our ability to service current debt and to pay dividends to stockholders. the manhattan vacancy rate continues to exceed 11% although we expect that to moderate slightly by the end of 2010. we could also be impacted by weakness in our suburban markets, including westchester county, connecticut, new jersey and long island. we may be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases expire. when our tenants decide not to renew their leases upon their expiration, we may not be able to relet the space. even if tenants do renew or we can relet the space, the terms of renewal or reletting, including the cost of required renovations, may be less favorable than current lease terms. over the next five years, through the end of 2014, leases will expire on approximately 41.9% and 24.5% of the rentable square feet at our consolidated properties and unconsolidated joint venture properties, respectively. as of december 31, 2009, approximately 7.0 million and 2.9 million square feet are scheduled to expire by december 31, 2014 at our consolidated properties and unconsolidated joint venture properties, respectively, and these leases currently have annualized escalated rental income totaling approximately $306.1 million and $154.6 million, respectively. we also have some leases with termination options beyond 2014. if we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet this space at similar rates, our cash flow and ability to service debt and pay dividends to stockholders would be adversely affected. the expiration of long term leases or operating sublease interests could adversely affect our results of operations. our interest in seven of our commercial office properties is through either long-term leasehold or operating sublease interests in the land and the improvements, rather than by a fee interest in the land. unless we can purchase a fee interest in the underlying land or extend the terms of these leases before their expiration, we will lose our right to operate these properties and our interest in the improvements upon expiration of the leases, which would significantly adversely affect our results of operations. these properties are 673 first avenue, 420 lexington avenue, 461 fifth avenue, 711 third avenue, 625 madison avenue, 1185 avenue of the americas, all in manhattan and 1055 washington avenue, connecticut. the average remaining term of these long-term leases, including our unilateral extension rights on each of the properties, is approximately 38 years. pursuant to the operating sublease arrangements, we, as tenant under the operating sublease, perform the functions traditionally performed by landlords with respect to our subtenants. we are responsible for not only collecting rent from our subtenants, but also maintaining the property and paying expenses relating to the property. our share of annualized escalated rents of these properties at december 31, 2009 totaled approximately $240.7 million, or 23.2%, of our share of total portfolio annualized revenue associated with these properties. we have the ability to acquire the fee position at 461 fifth avenue for a fixed price on a specific date. our results of operations rely on major tenants, including in the financial services sector, and insolvency, bankruptcy or receivership of these and other tenants could adversely affect our results of operations. giving effect to leases in effect as of december 31, 2009 for consolidated properties and unconsolidated joint venture properties as of that date, our five largest tenants, based on square footage leased, accounted for approximately 21.9% of our share of portfolio annualized rent, and, other than three tenants, citigroup, inc. (and its affiliates), viacom international inc. and credit suisse securities (usa) llc who accounted for approximately 8.2%, 4.7% and 5.8% of our share of portfolio annualized rent, respectively, no tenant accounted for more than 9 table of contents 2.1% of that total. in addition, the financial services sector accounted for approximately 41.0% of our total annualized revenues and 39.0% of our square feet leased of our portfolio as of december 31, 2009. this sector continues to experience significant turmoil which has resulted in significant job losses. of our 30 largest tenants based on square feet leased, which accounted for approximately 45.8% of our share of portfolio annualized rent, 57.0% (inclusive of lease guarantors) carry an investment grade credit rating. if current economic conditions persist or deteriorate, we may experience increases in past due accounts, defaults, lower occupancy and reduced effective rents, particularly in respect of our financial service tenants. our business would be adversely affected if any of our major tenants or any other tenants became insolvent, declared bankruptcy, are put into receivership or otherwise refused to pay rent in a timely fashion or at all. adverse economic and geopolitical conditions in general and the northeastern commercial office markets in particular could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. our business may be affected by the unprecedented volatility and illiquidity in the financial and credit markets, the general global economic recession, and other market or economic challenges experienced by the u.s. economy or real estate industry as a whole. our business may also be adversely affected by local economic conditions, as substantially all of our revenues are derived from our properties located in the northeast, particularly in new york, westchester county and connecticut. because our portfolio consists primarily of commercial office buildings (as compared to a more diversified real estate portfolio) located principally in manhattan, if economic conditions persist or deteriorate, then our results of operations, financial condition and ability to service current debt and to pay distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected by the following, among other potential conditions: significant job losses in the financial and professional services industries have occurred and may continue to occur, which may decrease demand for our office space, causing market rental rates and property values to be negatively impacted; our ability to borrow on terms and conditions that we find acceptable, or at all, may be limited, which could reduce our ability to pursue acquisition and development opportunities and refinance existing debt, reduce our returns from both our existing operations and our acquisition and development activities and increase our future interest expense; reduced values of our properties may limit our ability to dispose of assets at attractive prices or to obtain debt financing secured by our properties and may reduce the availability of unsecured loans; and reduced liquidity in debt markets and increased credit risk premiums for certain market participants may impair our ability to access capital. these conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions, may continue or worsen in the future. there can be no assurance that the actions of the u.s. government, federal reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies for the purpose of stabilizing the financial markets, or market response to those actions, will achieve the intended effect, and our business may not benefit from and may be adversely impacted by these actions and further government or market developments could adversely impact us. since mid-2007, and particularly during the second half of 2008, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. this was initially triggered by declines in the value of subprime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all asset classes, including equities. the global markets have been characterized by substantially increased volatility and short-selling and an overall loss of investor confidence, initial in financial institutions, but more recently in companies in a number of other industries and in the broader markets. the decline in asset values has caused increases in margin calls for investors, requirements that derivatives counterparties post additional collateral and 10 table of contents redemptions by mutual and hedge fund investors, all of which have increased the downward pressure on asset values and outflows of client funds across the financial services industry. in addition, the increased redemptions and unavailability of credit have required hedge funds and others to rapidly reduce leverage, which has increased volatility and further contributed to the decline in asset values. in response to the recent unprecedented financial issues affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions, the emergency economic stabilization act of 2008 ("eesa"), was signed into law on october 3, 2008. the eesa provides the u.s. secretary of treasury with the authority to establish a troubled asset relief program ("tarp"), to purchase from financial institutions up to $700 billion of residential or commercial mortgages and any securities, obligations, or other instruments based on, or related to, such mortgages, that in each case was originated or issued on or before march 14, 2008. eesa also provides for a program that would allow companies to insure their troubled assets. on february 17, 2009, president obama signed the american recovery and reinvestment act of 2009 ("arra"), a $787 billion stimulus bill for the purpose of stabilizing the economy by creating jobs among other things. as of february 12 , 2010, the u.s. treasury is managing or overseeing the following programs under tarp: the capital purchase program ("ccp"), the systemically significant failing institutions program ("ssfip"), the auto industry financing program ("aifp"), the legacy public-private investment program ("-ppip"), and the homeowner affordability and stability plan ("hasp") which is partially financed by tarp. there can be no assurance that the eesa, tarp or other programs will have a beneficial impact on the financial markets, including current extreme levels of volatility. in addition, the u.s. government, federal reserve and other governmental and regulatory bodies have taken or are considering taking other actions to address the financial crisis. we cannot predict whether or when such actions may occur or what impact, if any, such actions could have on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may suffer adverse consequences if our revenues decline since our operating costs do not necessarily decline in proportion to our revenue. we earn a significant portion of our income from renting our properties. our operating costs, however, do not necessarily fluctuate in relation to changes in our rental revenue. this means that our costs will not necessarily decline even if our revenues do. our operating costs could also increase while our revenues do not. if our operating costs increase but our rental revenues do not, we may be forced to borrow to cover our costs, we may incur losses and we may not have cash available for distributions to our stockholders. we face risks associated with property acquisitions. we may acquire individual properties and portfolios of properties, including large portfolios that could significantly increase our size and alter our capital structure. our acquisition activities and their success may be exposed to the following risks: even if we enter into an acquisition agreement for a property, it is usually subject to customary conditions to closing, including due diligence investigations to our satisfaction; we may be unable to finance acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; acquired properties may fail to perform as we expected; our estimates of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping acquired properties may be inaccurate; we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for new properties; acquired properties may be located in new markets where we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, lack of business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures; and 11 table of contents we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and as a result our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. as a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. unknown liabilities with respect to properties acquired might include: liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination; claims by tenants, vendors or other persons dealing with the former owners of the properties; liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. competition for acquisitions may reduce the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and increase the costs of those acquisitions. we plan to continue to acquire properties as we are presented with attractive opportunities. we may face competition for acquisition opportunities with other investors, particularly private investors who can incur more leverage, and this competition may adversely affect us by subjecting us to the following risks: an inability to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well-capitalized real estate investors, including publicly traded and privately held reits, private real estate funds, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, pension trusts, partnerships and individual investors; and an increase in the purchase price for such acquisition property, in the event we are able to acquire such desired property. we rely on seven large properties for a significant portion of our revenue. as of december 31, 2009, seven of our properties, 420 lexington avenue, one madison avenue, 485 lexington avenue, 1185 avenue of the americas, 1221 avenue of the americas, 1515 broadway and 388-390 greenwich street, accounted for approximately 42.0% of our portfolio annualized rent, including our share of joint venture annualized rent, and no single property accounted for more than approximately 7% of our portfolio annualized rent, including our share of joint venture annualized rent. our revenue and cash available for distribution to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected if the ground lease for the 420 lexington avenue or 1185 avenue of the americas property were terminated for any reason or if one or all of these properties were materially damaged or destroyed. additionally, our revenue and cash available for distribution to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected if our tenants at these properties experienced a downturn in their business which may weaken their financial condition and result in their failure to timely make rental payments, defaulting under their leases or filing for bankruptcy. the continuing threat of terrorist attacks may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to generate cash flow. there may be a decrease in demand for space in new york city because it is considered at risk for future terrorist attacks, and this decrease may reduce our revenues from property rentals. in the aftermath of a terrorist attack, tenants in the new york city area may choose to relocate their business to less populated, lower-profile areas of the united states that are not as likely to be targets of future terrorist activity. this in turn would trigger a decrease in the demand for space in the new york city area, which could increase vacancies in our properties 12 table of contents and force us to lease our properties on less favorable terms. as a result, the value of our properties and the level of our revenues could materially decline. a terrorist attack could cause insurance premiums to increase significantly. we maintain "all-risk" property and rental value coverage (including coverage regarding the perils of flood, earthquake and terrorism) within two property insurance portfolios and liability insurance. the first property portfolio maintains a blanket limit of $600.0 million per occurrence for the majority of the new york city properties in our portfolio with a sub-limit of $450.0 million for acts of terrorism. this policy expires on december 31, 2010. the second portfolio maintains a limit of $600.0 million per occurrence, including terrorism, for a few new york city properties and the majority of the suburban properties. the second property policy expires on december 31, 2010. additional coverage may be purchased on a stand-alone basis for certain assets. the liability policies cover all our properties and provide limits of $200.0 million per property. the liability policies expire on october 31, 2010. in october 2006, we formed a wholly-owned taxable reit subsidiary, belmont insurance company, or belmont, to act as a captive insurance company and be one of the elements of our overall insurance program. belmont was formed in an effort to, among other reasons; stabilize to some extent the fluctuations of insurance market conditions. belmont is licensed in new york to write terrorism, nbcr (nuclear, biological, chemical, and radiological), general liability, environmental liability and d&amp;o coverage. terrorism: belmont acts as a direct property insurer with respect to a portion of our terrorism coverage for the new york city properties. effective september 1, 2009, belmont increased its terrorism coverage from $250 million to $400 million in an upper layer. in addition belmont purchased reinsurance to reinsure the retained insurable risk not otherwise covered under terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization and extension act of 2007, or tripra, as detailed below. nbcr: belmont acts as a direct insurer of nbcr coverage up to $250 million on the entire property portfolio. general liability: belmont insures a deductible on the general liability insurance with a $150,000 deductible per occurrence and a $2.2 million annual aggregate stop loss limit. we have secured an excess insurer to protect against catastrophic liability losses above the $150,000 deductible per occurrence and a stop loss if aggregate claims exceed $2.2 million. belmont has retained a third party administrator to manage all claims within the deductible and we anticipate that direct management of liability claims will improve loss experience and ultimately lower the cost of liability insurance in future years. in addition, we have an umbrella liability policy of $200.0 million. environmental liability: belmont insures a deductible of $1 million per occurrence on a $30 million environmental liability policy covering the entire portfolio. as long as we own belmont, we are responsible for its liquidity and capital resources, and the accounts of belmont are part of our consolidated financial statements. if we experience a loss and belmont is required to pay under its insurance policy, we would ultimately record the loss to the extent of belmont's required payment. therefore, insurance coverage provided by belmont should not be considered as the equivalent of third-party insurance, but rather as a modified form of self-insurance. tria, which was enacted in november 2002, was renewed on december 31, 2007. congress extended tria, now called tripra (terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization and extension act of 2007) until december 31, 2014. the law extends the federal terrorism insurance program that requires insurance companies to offer terrorism coverage and provides for compensation for insured losses resulting from acts of foreign and domestic terrorism. our debt instruments, consisting of mortgage loans secured by our properties (which are generally non-recourse to us), mezzanine loans, ground leases and our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility, contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance. there can be no assurance that the lenders or ground lessors under these instruments will not take the position that a total or partial exclusion from "all-risk" 13 table of contents insurance coverage for losses due to terrorist acts is a breach of these debt and ground lease instruments that allows the lenders or ground lessors to declare an event of default and accelerate repayment of debt or recapture of ground lease positions. in addition, if lenders insist on full coverage for these risks and prevail in asserting that we are required to maintain such coverage, it could result in substantially higher insurance premiums. we have a 45% interest in the property at 1221 avenue of the americas, where we participate with the rockefeller group inc., which carries a blanket policy providing $1.0 billion of "all-risk" property insurance, including terrorism coverage, and a 49.9% interest in the property at 100 park avenue, where we participate with prudential, which carries a blanket policy of $500.0 million of "all-risk" property insurance, including terrorism coverage. we own one madison avenue, which is under a triple net lease with insurance provided by the tenant, credit suisse securities (usa) llc, or cs. we monitor the coverage provided by cs to make sure that our asset is adequately protected. we have a 50.6% interest in the property at 388-390 greenwich street, where we participate with sitq immobilier, which is leased on a triple net basis to citigroup, n.a., which provides insurance coverage directly. we monitor all triple net leases to ensure that tenants are providing adequate coverage. although we consider our insurance coverage to be appropriate, in the event of a major catastrophe, such as an act of terrorism, we may not have sufficient coverage to replace certain properties. our dependence on smaller and growth-oriented businesses to rent our office space could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. many of the tenants in our properties are smaller, growth-oriented businesses that may not have the financial strength of larger corporate tenants. smaller companies generally experience a higher rate of failure than large businesses. growth-oriented firms may also seek other office space, including class a space, as they develop. dependence on these companies could create a higher risk of tenant defaults, turnover and bankruptcies, which could adversely affect our distributable cash flow and results of operations. debt financing, financial covenants, degree of leverage, and increases in interest rates could adversely affect our economic performance. scheduled debt payments could adversely affect our results of operations. the total principal amount of our outstanding consolidated indebtedness was approximately $4.9 billion as of december 31, 2009, consisting of approximately $1.37 billion under our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility, $823.0 million under our senior unsecured notes, $100.0 million under our junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures and approximately $2.6 billion of non-recourse mortgage loans on sixteen of our properties. in addition, we could increase the amount of our outstanding indebtedness in the future, in part by borrowing under our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility, which had $50.8 million available for draw as of december 31, 2009. our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility matures in june 2011 and has a one-year as-of-right extension option. as of december 31, 2009, the total principal amount of non-recourse indebtedness outstanding at the joint venture properties was approximately $4.2 billion, of which our proportionate share was approximately $1.8 billion. cash flow could be insufficient to pay distributions at expected levels and meet the payments of principal and interest required under our current mortgage indebtedness, 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility, senior unsecured notes, debentures and indebtedness outstanding at our joint venture properties. if we are unable to make payments under our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility, all amounts due and owing at such time shall accrue interest at a rate equal to 4% higher than the rate at which each draw was made. if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property, resulting in loss of income and asset value. foreclosure on mortgaged properties or an inability to make payments under our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to refinance existing indebtedness, which in all cases requires substantial principal payments at maturity. in 2010, approximately $114.8 million of corporate indebtedness, and $258.6 million of debt on our unconsolidated joint venture properties will mature. there are no debt maturities in 2010 on our 14 table of contents consolidated properties. at the present time, we intend to exercise extension options or refinance the debt associated with our properties on or prior to their respective maturity dates. if any principal payments due at maturity cannot be refinanced, extended or paid with proceeds of other capital transactions, such as new equity capital, our cash flow will not be sufficient in all years to repay all maturing debt. at the time of refinancing, prevailing interest rates or other factors, such as the possible reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans may result in higher interest rates. increased interest expense on the refinanced debt would adversely affect cash flow and our ability to service debt and make distributions to stockholders. financial covenants could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. the mortgages and mezzanine loans on our properties contain customary negative covenants that limit our ability to further mortgage the property, to enter into new leases or materially modify existing leases, and to discontinue insurance coverage. in addition, our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility contains customary restrictions and requirements on our method of operations. our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility and senior unsecured bonds also require us to maintain designated ratios of total debt-to-assets, debt service coverage and unencumbered assets-to-unsecured debt. these restrictions could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. rising interest rates could adversely affect our cash flow. advances under our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility and certain property-level mortgage debt bear interest at a variable rate. these consolidated variable rate borrowings totaled approximately $1.6 billion at december 31, 2009. in addition, we could increase the amount of our outstanding variable rate debt in the future, in part by borrowing under our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility, which had $50.8 million available for draw as of december 31, 2009. borrowings under our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility currently bear interest at a spread equal to the 30-day libor, plus 90 basis points. as of december 31, 2009, borrowings under our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility and junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures totaled $1.37 billion, and $100.0 million, respectively, and bore interest at 1.23% and 5.61%, respectively. we may incur indebtedness in the future that also bears interest at a variable rate or may be required to refinance our debt at higher rates. accordingly, increases in interest rates above that which we anticipated based upon historical trends could adversely affect our ability to continue to make distributions to stockholders. at december 31, 2009, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates along the entire interest rate curve would increase our annual interest costs by approximately $15.2 million and would increase our share of joint venture annual interest costs by approximately $6.4 million. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect results of operations. the interest rate hedge instruments we use to manage some of our exposure to interest rate volatility involve risk, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. in addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. no limitation on debt could adversely affect our cash flow. our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness we may incur. as of december 31, 2009, assuming the conversion of all outstanding units of the operating partnership into shares of our common stock, our combined debt-to-market capitalization ratio, including our share of joint venture debt of approximately $1.8 billion, was approximately 61.4%. we have historically targeted a debt-to-market capitalization less than this. however, due to the significant decrease in our stock price we are currently operating in excess of that threshold. we are currently undertaking steps aimed at reducing our debt. any changes that increase our debt to market capitalization percentage could be viewed negatively by investors. as a result, our stock price could decrease. our market capitalization is variable and does not necessarily reflect the fair market value of our assets at all times. we also consider factors other than market capitalization in making decisions regarding the 15 table of contents incurrence of indebtedness, such as the purchase price of properties to be acquired with debt financing, the estimated market value of our properties upon refinancing and the ability of particular properties and our business as a whole to generate cash flow to cover expected debt service. structured finance investments could cause us to incur expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we owned mezzanine loans, junior participations and preferred equity interests in 27 investments with an aggregate book value of approximately $785.6 million at december 31, 2009. such investments may or may not be recourse obligations of the borrower and are not insured or guaranteed by governmental agencies or otherwise. in the event of a default under these obligations, we may have to realize upon our collateral and thereafter make substantial improvements or repairs to the underlying real estate in order to maximize the property's investment potential. borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against such enforcement and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce their obligation to us. relatively high loan-to-value ratios and declines in the value of the property may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our investment upon foreclosure or realization. we maintain and regularly evaluate financial reserves to protect against potential future losses. our reserves reflect management's judgment of the probability and severity of losses. we cannot be certain that our judgment will prove to be correct and that reserves will be adequate over time to protect against potential future losses because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific properties, assets, tenants, borrowers, industries in which our tenants and borrowers operate or markets in which our tenants and borrowers or their properties are located. we believe the increase in our non-performing loans has been driven by the recent credit crisis, which have adversely impacted the ability of many of our borrowers to service their debt and refinance our loans to them at maturity. we have significantly increased our provision for loan losses to $93.8 million and our direct write-offs to $69.1 million in 2009 based upon the performance of our assets and conditions in the financial markets and overall economy, which continued to deteriorate in 2009. if our reserves for credit losses prove inadequate, we could suffer losses which would have a material adverse affect on our financial performance, the market prices of our securities and our ability to pay dividends. special servicing activities could result in liability to us. we provide special servicing activities on behalf of third parties. we have been rated by fitch and s&amp;p to provide such services. an intended or unintended breach of the servicing standards and/or our fiduciary duties to bondholders could result in material liability to us. joint investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority and reliance upon a co-venturer's financial condition. we co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures, co-tenancies or other entities, acquiring non-controlling interests in, or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of, a property, partnership, joint venture, co-tenancy or other entity. therefore, we will not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding that property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. investments in partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities may involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that our partners, co-tenants or co-venturers might become bankrupt or otherwise fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. additionally, our partners or co-venturers might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals, which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals. these investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions such as a sale, because neither we nor the partner, co-tenant or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. consequently, actions by such partner, co-tenant or co-venturer might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. in addition, we may in specific circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners, co-tenants or co-venturers. as of december 31, 2009, our unconsolidated joint ventures owned 11 16 table of contents properties and we had an aggregate cost basis in the joint ventures totaling approximately $1.1 billion. as of december 31, 2009, our share of joint venture debt totaled approximately $1.8 billion. our joint venture agreements may contain terms in favor of our partners that could have an adverse effect on the value of our investments in the joint ventures. each of our joint venture agreements has been individually negotiated with our partner in the joint venture and, in some cases, we have agreed to terms that are favorable to our partner in the joint venture. for example, our partner may be entitled to a specified portion of the profits of the joint venture before we are entitled to any portion of such profits and our partner may have rights to buy our interest in the joint venture, to force us to buy the partner's interest in the joint venture or to compel the sale of the property owned by such joint venture. these rights may permit our partner in a particular joint venture to obtain a greater benefit from the value or profits of the joint venture than us, which could have an adverse effect on the value of our investment in the joint venture and on our financial condition and results of operations. we may also enter into similar arrangements in the future. we are subject to possible environmental liabilities and other possible liabilities. we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws. these laws regulate our use, storage, disposal and management of hazardous substances and wastes and can impose liability on property owners or operators for the clean-up of certain hazardous substances released on a property and any associated damage to natural resources without regard to whether the release was legal or whether it was caused by the property owner or operator. the presence of hazardous substances on our properties may adversely affect occupancy and our ability to develop or sell or borrow against those properties. in addition to potential liability for clean-up costs, private plaintiffs may bring claims for personal injury, property damage or for similar reasons. various laws also impose liability for the clean-up of contamination at any facility (e.g., a landfill) to which we have sent hazardous substances for treatment or disposal, without regard to whether the materials were transported, treated and disposed in accordance with law. we may incur significant costs complying with the americans with disabilities act and similar laws. our properties may be subject to other risks relating to current or future laws including laws benefiting disabled persons, and other state or local zoning, construction or other regulations. these laws may require significant property modifications in the future for which we may not have budgeted and could result in fines being levied against us. the occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse impact on our cash flows and ability to make distributions to stockholders. under the americans with disabilities act, or ada, all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. additional federal, state and local laws also may require modifications to our properties, or restrict our ability to renovate our properties. we have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance. if one or more of our properties is not in compliance with the ada or other legislation, then we would be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance. we cannot predict the ultimate amount of the cost of compliance with ada or other legislation. if we incur substantial costs to comply with the ada and any other legislation, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and/or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders could be adversely affected. our charter documents and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us, which could discourage takeover attempts and prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium over the market price of our stock. provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws could inhibit changes in control. a change of control of our company could benefit stockholders by providing them with a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our stock. however, provisions contained in our articles of incorporation and 17 table of contents bylaws may delay or prevent a change in control of our company. these provisions, discussed more fully below, are: staggered board of directors; ownership limitations; the board of director's ability to issue additional common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval; and stockholder rights plan. our board of directors is staggered into three separate classes. the board of directors of our company is divided into three classes. the terms of the class i, class ii and class iii directors expire in 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively. our staggered board may deter changes in control because of the increased time period necessary for a third party to acquire control of the board. 18 table of contents we have a stock ownership limit. to remain qualified as a reit for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of any taxable year. for this purpose, stock may be "owned" directly, as well as indirectly under certain constructive ownership rules, including, for example, rules that attribute stock held by one family member to another family member. in part, to avoid violating this rule regarding stock ownership limitations and maintain our reit qualification, our articles of incorporation prohibit ownership by any single stockholder of more than 9.0% in value or number of shares of our common stock. limitations on the ownership of preferred stock may also be imposed by us. the board of directors has the discretion to raise or waive this limitation on ownership for any stockholder if deemed to be in our best interest. to obtain a waiver, a stockholder must present the board and our tax counsel with evidence that ownership in excess of this limit will not affect our present or future reit status. absent any exemption or waiver, stock acquired or held in excess of the limit on ownership will be transferred to a trust for the exclusive benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary, and the stockholder's rights to distributions and to vote would terminate. the stockholder would be entitled to receive, from the proceeds of any subsequent sale of the shares transferred to the charitable trust, the lesser of: the price paid for the stock or, if the owner did not pay for the stock, the market price of the stock on the date of the event causing the stock to be transferred to the charitable trust; and the amount realized from the sale. this limitation on ownership of stock could delay or prevent a change in control. we have a stockholder rights plan. we adopted a stockholder rights plan which provides, among other things, that when specified events occur, our stockholders will be entitled to purchase from us a newly created series of junior preferred shares, subject to our ownership limit described above. the preferred share purchase rights are triggered by the earlier to occur of (1) ten days after the date of a public announcement that a person or group acting in concert has acquired, or obtained the right to acquire, beneficial ownership of 17% or more of our outstanding shares of common stock or (2) ten business days after the commencement of or announcement of an intention to make a tender offer or exchange offer, the consummation of which would result in the acquiring person becoming the beneficial owner of 17% or more of our outstanding common stock. the preferred share purchase rights would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors. debt may not be assumable. we have approximately $2.3 billion in unsecured corporate debt. this debt may be unassumable by a potential purchaser and may be subject to significant prepayment penalties. maryland takeover statutes may prevent a change of control of our company, which could depress our stock price. under maryland law, "business combinations" between a maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. these business combinations include a merger, consolidation, stock exchange, or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. an interested stockholder is defined as: any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation's outstanding shares; or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock of the corporation. 19 table of contents a person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if the board of directors approves in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. after the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by the board of directors of the corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least: 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation, voting together as a single group; and two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder. the business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer, including potential acquisitions that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. in addition, maryland law provides that "control shares" of a maryland corporation acquired in a "control share acquisition" will have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares of stock owned by the acquiror, by officers of the target corporation or by directors who are employees of the corporation, under the maryland control share acquisition act. "control shares" means voting shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock owned by the acquiror or in respect of which the acquiror is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of voting power: (i) one-tenth or more but less than one-third, (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority, or (iii) a majority or more of all voting power. a "control share acquisition" means the acquisition of ownership of, or the power to direct the exercise of voting power with respect to, issued and outstanding control shares, subject to certain exceptions. we have opted out of these provisions of the maryland general corporation law, or the mgcl, with respect to business combinations and control share acquisitions by resolution of our board of directors and a provision in our bylaws, respectively. however, in the future, our board of directors may reverse its decision by resolution and elect to opt in to the mgcl's business combination provisions, or amend our bylaws and elect to opt in to the mgcl's control share provisions. additionally, title 8, subtitle 3 of the mgcl permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses, some of which we do not have. such takeover defenses, if implemented, may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making us an acquisition proposal or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with an opportunity to realize a premium over the then-current market price. future issuances of common stock, preferred stock and convertible debt could dilute existing stockholders' interests. our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue additional shares of common stock, preferred stock and convertible debt without stockholder approval. any such issuance could dilute our existing stockholders' interests. also, any future series of preferred stock may have voting provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control. 20 table of contents changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. as with other publicly traded equity securities, the value of our common stock depends on various market conditions, which may change from time to time. among the market conditions that may affect the value of our common stock are the following: the extent of your interest in us; the general reputation of reits and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies; our financial performance; and general stock and bond market conditions. the market value of our common stock is based primarily upon the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash dividends. consequently, our common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share of common stock. if our future earnings or cash dividends are less than expected, it is likely that the market price of our common stock will diminish. market interest rates may have an effect on the value of our common stock. if market interest rates go up, prospective purchasers of shares of our common stock may expect a higher distribution rate on our common stock. higher market interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for us to distribute and, to the contrary, would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of our common stock to go down. there are potential conflicts of interest between us and mr. green. there is a potential conflict of interest relating to the disposition of certain property contributed to us by stephen l. green, and his family in our initial public offering. mr. green serves as the chairman of our board of directors and is an executive officer. as part of our formation, mr. green contributed appreciated property, with a net book value of $73.5 million, to the operating partnership in exchange for units of limited partnership interest in the operating partnership. he did not recognize any taxable gain as a result of the contribution. the operating partnership, however, took a tax basis in the contributed property equal to that of the contributing unitholder. the fair market value of the property contributed by him exceeded his tax basis by approximately $34.0 million at the time of contribution. the difference between fair market value and tax basis at the time of contribution represents a built-in gain. if we sell a property in a transaction in which a taxable gain is recognized, for tax purposes the built-in gain would be allocated solely to him and not to us. as a result, mr. green has a conflict of interest if the sale of a property, which he contributed, is in our best interest but not his. there is a potential conflict of interest relating to the refinancing of indebtedness specifically allocated to mr. green. mr. green would recognize gain if he were to receive a distribution of cash from the operating partnership in an amount that exceeds his tax basis in his partnership units. his tax basis includes his share of debt, including mortgage indebtedness, owed by our operating partnership. if our operating partnership were to retire such debt, then he would experience a decrease in his share of liabilities, which, for tax purposes, would be treated as a distribution of cash to him. to the extent the deemed distribution of cash exceeded his tax basis, he would recognize gain. limitations on our ability to sell or reduce the indebtedness on specific mortgaged properties could adversely affect the value of the stock. on may 15, 2002, we acquired the property located at 1515 broadway, new york, new york. under a tax protection agreement established to protect the limited partners of the partnership that transferred 1515 broadway to us, we have agreed not to take certain action that would adversely affect the limited partners' tax positions 21 table of contents before december 31, 2011. we also acquired the property located at 220 east 42nd street, new york, new york on february 13, 2003. we have agreed not to take certain action that would adversely affect the tax positions of certain of the partners who held interests in this property prior to the acquisition for a period of seven years after the acquisition. we also acquired the property located at 625 madison avenue, new york, new york, on october 19, 2004 and have agreed not to take certain action that would adversely affect the tax positions of certain of the partners who held interests in this property prior to the acquisition, for a period of seven years after the acquisition. in connection with future acquisitions of interests in properties, we may agree to similar restrictions on our ability to sell or refinance the acquired properties with similar potential adverse consequences. we face potential conflicts of interest. members of management may have a conflict of interest over whether to enforce terms of agreements with entities with which senior management, directly or indirectly, has an affiliation. through alliance building services, or alliance, first quality maintenance, l.p., or first quality, provides cleaning, extermination and related services, classic security llc provides security services, bright star couriers llc provides messenger services, and onyx restoration works provides restoration services with respect to certain properties owned by us. alliance is owned by gary green, a son of stephen l. green, the chairman of our board of directors. our company and our tenants accounted for approximately 23.7% of alliance's 2009 estimated total revenue. the contracts pursuant to which these services are provided are not the result of arm's length negotiations and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the terms and conditions are not less favorable than those which could be obtained from third parties providing comparable services. in addition, to the extent that we choose to enforce our rights under any of these agreements, we may determine to pursue available remedies, such as actions for damages or injunctive relief, less vigorously than we otherwise might because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with the individual involved. members of management may have a conflict of interest over whether to enforce terms of senior management's employment and noncompetition agreements. stephen green, marc holliday, gregory f. hughes, andrew levine and andrew mathias entered into employment and noncompetition agreements with us pursuant to which they have agreed not to actively engage in the acquisition, development or operation of office real estate in the new york city metropolitan area. for the most part, these restrictions apply to the executive both during his employment and for a period of time thereafter. each executive is also prohibited from otherwise disrupting or interfering with our business through the solicitation of our employees or clients or otherwise. to the extent that we choose to enforce our rights under any of these agreements, we may determine to pursue available remedies, such as actions for damages or injunctive relief, less vigorously than we otherwise might because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with the individual involved. additionally, the non-competition provisions of these agreements despite being limited in scope and duration, could be difficult to enforce, or may be subject to limited enforcement, should litigation arise over them in the future. mr. green has interests in two properties in manhattan, which are exempt from the non-competition provisions of his employment and non-competition agreement. our failure to qualify as a reit would be costly. we believe we have operated in a manner to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes and intend to continue to so operate. many of these requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. the determination that we are a reit requires an analysis of factual matters and circumstances. these matters, some of which may not be totally within our control, can affect our qualification as a reit. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income must come from designated sources that are listed in the reit tax laws. we are also required to distribute to stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income excluding capital gains. the fact that we hold our assets through the operating partnership and its subsidiaries further complicates 22 table of contents the application of the reit requirements. even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our reit status. furthermore, congress and the internal revenue service, which we refer to as the irs, might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified as a reit. if we fail to qualify as a reit, we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. also, unless the irs grants us relief under specific statutory provisions, we would remain disqualified as a reit for four years following the year we first failed to qualify. if we failed to qualify as a reit, we would have to pay significant income taxes and would therefore have less money available for investments or for distributions to stockholders. this would likely have a significant adverse effect on the value of our securities. in addition, the reit tax laws would no longer require us to make any distributions to stockholders. we may change the dividend policy for our common stock in the future. recent internal revenue service revenue procedures allow us to satisfy the reit income distribution requirements with respect to our 2009, 2010 and 2011 taxable years by distributing up to 90% of our dividends for any such year on our common stock in shares of our common stock in lieu of paying dividends entirely in cash, so long as we follow a process allowing our stockholders to elect cash or stock subject to a cap that we impose on the maximum amount of cash that will be paid. although we reserve the right to utilize this procedure in the future, we did not utilize it for 2009 and we currently have no intent to do so in the future. in the event that we pay a portion of a dividend in shares of our common stock, taxable u.s. stockholders would be required to pay tax on the entire amount of the dividend, including the portion paid in shares of common stock, in which case such stockholders might have to pay the tax using cash from other sources. if a u.s. stockholder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. furthermore, with respect to non-u.s. stockholders, we may be required to withhold u.s. tax with respect to such dividend, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. in addition, if a significant number of our stockholders sell shares of our common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, such sales could put downward pressure on the market price of our common stock. our board of directors will continue to evaluate our distribution policy on a quarterly basis as they monitor the capital markets and the impact of the economy on our operations. the decision to authorize and pay dividends on our common stock in the future, as well as the timing, amount and composition of any such future dividends, will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors in light of conditions then existing, including the company's earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, debt maturities, the availability of capital, applicable reit and legal restrictions and the general overall economic conditions and other factors. previously enacted tax legislation reduces tax rates for dividends paid by non-reit corporations. under certain previously enacted tax legislation, the maximum tax rate on dividends to individuals has generally been reduced to 15% (from january 1, 2003 through december 31, 2010). the reduction in rates on dividends is generally not applicable to dividends paid by a reit except in limited circumstances that we do not contemplate. although this legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of reits or dividends paid by reits, the favorable treatment of regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals to consider stock of non-reit corporations that pay dividends as relatively more attractive than stocks of reits. it is not possible to determine whether such a change in perceived relative value has occurred or what the effect, if any, this legislation has had or will have in the future on the market price of our stock. we are dependent on external sources of capital. because of distribution requirements imposed on us to qualify as a reit, it is not likely that we will be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisitions, from income from operations. we therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. our access 23 table of contents to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. in addition, we anticipate having to raise money in the public equity and debt markets with some regularity and our ability to do so will depend upon the general conditions prevailing in these markets. at any time conditions may exist which effectively prevent us, and reits in general, from accessing these markets. moreover, additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of our stockholders' interests, and additional debt financing may substantially increase our leverage. due to the current financial crisis and the lack of liquidity in the market, such capital may not be available. we face significant competition for tenants. the leasing of real estate is highly competitive. the principal means of competition are rent charged, location, services provided and the nature and condition of the facility to be leased. we directly compete with all lessors and developers of similar space in the areas in which our properties are located. demand for retail space has been impacted by the recent bankruptcy of a number of retail companies and a general trend toward consolidation in the retail industry, which could adversely affect the ability of our company to attract and retain tenants. our commercial office properties are concentrated in highly developed areas of midtown manhattan and certain suburban central business districts, or cbd's. manhattan is the largest office market in the united states. the number of competitive office properties in manhattan and cbd's in which our suburban properties are located (which may be newer or better located than our properties) could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease office space at our properties, and on the effective rents we are able to charge. loss of our key personnel could harm our operations. we are dependent on the efforts of stephen l. green, the chairman of our board of directors and an executive officer, marc holliday, our chief executive officer, andrew mathias, our president and chief investment officer and gregory f. hughes, our chief operating officer and chief financial officer. these officers have employment agreements which expire in december 2010, january 2013, december 2010, and june 2010, respectively. a loss of the services of any of these individuals could adversely affect our operations. our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. we may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. compliance with changing regulation applicable to corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses, affect our operations and affect our reputation. changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and new sec regulations and new york stock exchange rules, can create uncertainty for public companies. these new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. we are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. as a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. in particular, our efforts to comply with 24 table of contents section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors' audit of that assessment has required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. in addition, it has become more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. further, our directors, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. as a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified directors and executive officers, which could harm our business. if our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. forward-looking statements may prove inaccurate see item 7 "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations forward-looking information" for additional disclosure regarding forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk see item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market rate risk" for additional information regarding our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. the table below presents principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of our debt obligations and structured finance investments and the related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates, including as-of-right extension options, as of december 31, 2009 (in thousands): long-term debt structured finance investments date fixed rate average interest rate variable rate average interest rate amount weighted yield 2010 $ 141,905 5.91 % $ 1,473 1.24 % $ 413,733 7.72 % 2011 368,680 5.90 % 24,112 1.23 % 7,000 11.71 % 2012 251,672 5.88 % 1,432,286 2.29 % 56,020 8.87 % 2013 335,660 5.90 % 118,736 2.29 % 23,455 13.50 % 2014 180,052 5.94 % % 41,791 12.22 % thereafter 2,038,112 5.96 % % 243,613 8.03 % total $ 3,316,081 5.96 % $ 1,576,607 1.33 % $ 785,612 (1) 8.80 % fair value $ 2,917,553 $ 1,463,825 (1) our structured finance investments had an estimated fair value ranging between $471.8 million and $707.2 million at december 31, 2009. the table below presents the gross principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of our share of our joint venture debt obligations and the related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates as of december 31, 2009 (in thousands): long term debt date fixed rate average interest rate variable rate average interest rate 2010 $ 29,410 4.49 % $ 85,720 2.94 % 2011 405 4.46 % 206,546 3.31 % 2012 12,870 4.45 % 47,889 2.88 % 2013 1,182 4.45 % 5,502 3.03 % 2014 97,334 4.42 % 237,166 3.03 % thereafter 1,108,698 3.88 % 16,000 1.39 % total $ 1,249,899 4.31 % $ 598,823 3.00 % fair value $ 1,002,071 $ 588,574 63 table of contents the table below lists all of our derivative instruments, which are hedging variable rate debt, including joint ventures, and their related fair value as of december 31, 2009 (in thousands): asset hedged benchmark rate notional value strike rate effective date expiration date fair value interest rate swap credit facility libor $ 60,000 4.364 % 1/2007 5/2010 $ (844 ) interest rate swap anticipated debt 10-year treasury 105,000 4.910 % 12/2009 12/2019 (8,271 ) interest rate swap anticipated debt 10-year treasury 100,000 4.705 % 12/2009 12/2019 (6,186 ) interest rate cap mortgage libor 128,000 6.000 % 2/2009 2/2010 interest rate cap mortgage libor 128,000 6.000 % 2/2010 2/2011 5 total consolidated hedges $ 393,000 $ (15,296 ) in addition to these derivative instruments, some of our joint venture loan agreements require the joint venture to purchase interest rate caps on its debt. all such interest rate caps were out of the money and had a value of $4,100 at december 31, 2009. one of our joint ventures had a libor swap in place on a national amount of $560.0 million. this hedge, which matures in december 2017, had a fair value obligation of approximately $17.1 million at december 31, 2009. 64 table of contentsrisk factors declines in the demand for office space in new york city, and in particular midtown manhattan, as well as our suburban markets, including westchester county, connecticut, new jersey and long island, resulting from general economic conditions could adversely affect the value of our real estate portfolio and our results of operations and, consequently, our ability to service current debt and to pay dividends to stockholders. most of our commercial office properties are located in midtown manhattan. as a result, our business is dependent on the condition of the new york city economy in general and the market for office space in midtown manhattan in particular. weakness in the new york city economy could materially reduce the value of our real estate portfolio and our rental revenues, and thus adversely affect our cash flow and ability to service current debt and to pay dividends to stockholders. we could also be affected by similar weakness in our suburban markets. we may be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases expire. when our tenants decide not to renew their leases upon their expiration, we may not be able to relet the space. even if tenants do renew or we can relet the space, the terms of renewal or reletting, including the cost of required renovations, may be less favorable than current lease terms. as of december 31, 2010, approximately 6.0 million and 3.1 million square feet, representing approximately 34.7% and 32.1% of the rentable square feet, are scheduled to expire by december 31, 2015 at our consolidated properties and unconsolidated joint venture properties, respectively, and as of december 31, 2010, these leases had annualized escalated rental income totaling approximately $283.8 million and $157.4 million, respectively. we also have leases with termination options beyond 2015. if we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet the space at similar rates, our cash flow and ability to service debt and pay dividends to stockholders could be adversely affected. the expiration of long term leases or operating sublease interests could adversely affect our results of operations. our interests in seven commercial office properties are through either long-term leasehold or operating sublease interests in the land and the improvements, rather than by ownership of fee interest in the land. these properties are 673 first avenue, 420 lexington avenue, 461 fifth avenue, 711 third avenue, 625 madison avenue, 1185 avenue of the americas, all in manhattan, and 1055 washington avenue, stamford, connecticut. we have the ability to acquire the fee position at 461 fifth avenue for a fixed price on a specific date. unless we can purchase a fee interest in the underlying land or extend the terms of these leases before their expiration, we will lose our right to operate these properties upon expiration of the leases, which would significantly adversely affect our results of operations. the average remaining term of these long-term leases as of december 31, 2010, including our unilateral extension rights on each of the properties, is approximately 42 years. our share of annualized escalated rents of these properties at december 31, 2010 totaled approximately $240.2 million, or 24%, of our share of total portfolio annualized revenue. our results of operations rely on major tenants, including in the financial services sector, and insolvency, bankruptcy or receivership of these or other tenants could adversely affect our results of operations. giving effect to leases in effect as of december 31, 2010 for consolidated properties and unconsolidated joint venture properties, as of that date, our five largest tenants, based on square footage leased, accounted for approximately 22.3% of our share of portfolio annualized rent, with three tenants, citigroup, inc. (and its affiliates), viacom international inc. and credit suisse securities (usa) llc accounting for approximately 8.0%, 5.3% and 5.9% of our share of portfolio annualized rent, respectively. in addition, the financial services sector accounted for approximately 39% of our total annualized revenues and 38% of our square feet leased of our portfolio as of december 31, 2010. this sector continues to experience significant turmoil. if current economic conditions persist or deteriorate, we may experience increases in past due accounts, defaults, lower occupancy and reduced effective rents, particularly in respect of our financial service tenants. our business would be adversely affected if any of our major tenants became insolvent, declared bankruptcy, are put into receivership or otherwise refused to pay rent in a timely fashion or at all. 10 table of contents adverse economic and geopolitical conditions in general and the northeastern commercial office markets in particular could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. our business may be affected by the unprecedented volatility and illiquidity in the financial and credit markets and other market or economic challenges experienced by the u.s. economy or real estate industry as a whole. as a result of the economic downturn that began in the second half of 2007, demand for office and retail space declined nationwide due to bankruptcies, downsizing, layoffs and cost cutting. real estate transactions and development opportunities lessened compared to the period prior to the current economic downturn and capitalization rates rose. as a result, the cost and availability of credit was, and may in down markets be, adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led, and in downturn periods may lead, many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide funding to borrowers, and this may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our tenants. our business may also be adversely affected by local economic conditions, as substantially all of our revenues are derived from our properties located in the northeast, particularly in new york, westchester county and connecticut. because our portfolio consists primarily of commercial office buildings (as compared to a more diversified real estate portfolio) located principally in manhattan, if negative economic conditions persist or deteriorate, then our results of operations, financial condition and ability to service current debt and to pay distributions to our stockholders may be adversely affected. specifically, our business may be affected by the following conditions: significant job losses in the financial and professional services industries, which may decrease demand for our office space, causing market rental rates and property values to be negatively impacted; our ability to borrow on terms and conditions that we find acceptable, or at all, may be limited, which could reduce our ability to pursue acquisition and development opportunities and refinance existing debt, reduce our returns from both our existing operations and our acquisition and development activities and increase our future interest expense; reduced values of our properties, which may limit our ability to dispose of assets at attractive prices or to obtain debt financing secured by our properties and may reduce the availability of unsecured loans; and reduced liquidity in debt markets and increased credit risk premiums for certain market participants, which may impair our ability to access capital. these conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to pay distributions, may continue or worsen in the future. we may suffer adverse consequences if our revenues decline since our operating costs do not necessarily decline in proportion to our revenue. we earn a significant portion of our income from renting our properties. our operating costs, however, do not fluctuate in relation to changes in our rental revenue. as a result, our costs will not necessarily decline even if our revenues do. similarly, our operating costs could increase while our revenues stay flat or decline. in either such event, we may be forced to borrow to cover our costs, we may incur losses or we may not have cash available for distributions to our stockholders. we face risks associated with property acquisitions. we may acquire individual properties and portfolios of properties, including large portfolios that could significantly increase our size and alter our capital structure. our acquisition activities may be exposed to, and their success may be adversely affected by, the following risks: even if we enter into an acquisition agreement for a property, it is usually subject to customary conditions to closing, including due diligence investigations to our satisfaction; 11 table of contents we may be unable to finance acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; acquired properties may fail to perform as we expected; our estimates of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping acquired properties may be inaccurate; we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for new properties; acquired properties may be located in new markets where we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, lack of business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures; and we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and therefore our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. as a result, if a liability were asserted against us arising from our ownership of those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. unknown liabilities with respect to properties acquired might include: liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination; claims by tenants, vendors or other persons arising from dealing with the former owners of the properties; liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. competition for acquisitions may reduce the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and increase the costs of those acquisitions. we plan to continue to acquire properties as we are presented with attractive opportunities. we may face competition for acquisition opportunities from other investors, particularly private investors who can incur more leverage, and this competition may adversely affect us by subjecting us to the following risks: an inability to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well-capitalized real estate investors, including publicly traded and privately held reits, private real estate funds, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, pension trusts, partnerships and individual investors; and an increase in the purchase price for such acquisition property, in the event we are able to acquire such desired property. we rely on seven large properties for a significant portion of our revenue. as of december 31, 2010, seven of our properties, 420 lexington avenue, 220 east 42 nd street, one madison avenue, 485 lexington avenue, 1185 avenue of the americas, 1515 broadway and 388-390 greenwich street, accounted for approximately 41% of our portfolio annualized rent, including our share of joint venture annualized rent. our revenue and cash available for distribution to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected if any of these properties were materially damaged or destroyed. additionally, our revenue and cash available for distribution to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected if tenants at these properties fail to timely make rental payments due to adverse financial conditions or otherwise, default under their leases or file for bankruptcy. 12 table of contents the continuing threat of terrorist attacks may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to generate cash flow. there may be a decrease in demand for space in new york city because it is considered at risk for future terrorist attacks, and this decrease may reduce our revenues from property rentals. in the aftermath of a terrorist attack, tenants in the new york city area may choose to relocate their business to less populated, lower-profile areas of the united states that are not as likely to be targets of future terrorist activity. this in turn could trigger a decrease in the demand for space in the new york city area, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease our properties on less favorable terms. as a result, the value of our properties and the level of our revenues could materially decline. a terrorist attack could cause insurance premiums to increase significantly. we maintain "all-risk" property and rental value coverage (including coverage regarding the perils of flood, earthquake and terrorism) within two property insurance portfolios and liability insurance. the first property portfolio maintains a blanket limit of $750.0 million per occurrence, including terrorism, for the majority of the new york city properties in our portfolio. this policy expires on december 31, 2011. the second portfolio maintains a limit of $600.0 million per occurrence, including terrorism, for some new york city properties and the majority of the suburban properties. the second property policy expires on december 31, 2011. additional coverage may be purchased on a stand-alone basis for certain assets. we maintain liability policies which cover all our properties and provide limits of $201.0 million per occurrence and in the aggregate per location. the liability policies expire on october 31, 2011. in october 2006, we formed a wholly-owned taxable reit subsidiary, belmont insurance company, or belmont, to act as a captive insurance company and be one of the elements of our overall insurance program. belmont was formed in an effort to, among other reasons, stabilize to some extent the fluctuations of insurance market conditions. belmont is licensed in new york to write terrorism, nbcr (nuclear, biological, chemical, and radiological), general liability, environmental liability and d&amp;o coverage. terrorism: belmont acts as a direct property insurer with respect to a portion of our terrorism coverage for the new york city properties. effective december 31, 2010, belmont increased its terrorism coverage from $400 million to $650 million in a layer in excess of $100.0 million. in addition belmont purchased reinsurance to reinsure the retained insurable risk not otherwise covered under terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization and extension act of 2007, or tripra, as detailed below. nbcr: since december 31, 2010, belmont acts as a direct insurer of nbcr coverage up to $600 million on the entire property portfolio for certified acts of terrorism above a program trigger of $100.0 million. belmont is responsible for a small deductible and 15% of a loss, with the remaining 85% covered by the federal government. general liability: for the period commencing october 31, 2010, belmont insures a retention on the general liability insurance of $150,000 per occurrence and a $2.1 million annual aggregate stop loss limit. we have secured excess insurance to protect against catastrophic liability losses above the $150,000 retention. prior policy years carried a higher per occurrence deductible and/or higher aggregate stop loss. belmont has retained a third party administrator to manage all claims within the retention and we anticipate that direct management of liability claims will improve loss experience and ultimately lower the cost of liability insurance in future years. in addition, we have an umbrella liability policy of $200.0 million per occurrence and in the aggregate on a per location basis. environmental liability: belmont insures a deductible of $975,000 per occurrence in excess of $25,000 on a $25 million per occurrence/$30 million aggregate environmental liability policy covering the entire portfolio. as long as we own belmont, we are responsible for its liquidity and capital resources, and the accounts of belmont are part of our consolidated financial statements. if we experience a loss and belmont is required to pay under its insurance policy, we would ultimately record the loss to the extent of belmont's required payment. 13 table of contents therefore, insurance coverage provided by belmont should not be considered as the equivalent of third-party insurance, but rather as a modified form of self-insurance. the terrorism risk insurance act, or tria, which was enacted in november 2002, was renewed on december 31, 2007. congress extended tria, now called tripra (terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization and extension act of 2007) until december 31, 2014. the law extends the federal terrorism insurance program that requires insurance companies to offer terrorism coverage and provides for compensation for insured losses resulting from acts of certified terrorism, subject to the current program trigger of $100.0 million. our debt instruments, consisting of mortgage loans secured by our properties (which are generally non-recourse to us), mezzanine loans, ground leases, our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility and other corporate obligations, contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance. although we believe that we currently maintain sufficient insurance coverage to satisfy these obligations, there is no assurance that in the future we will be able to procure coverage at a reasonable cost. in such instances, there can be no assurance that the lenders or ground lessors under these instruments will not take the position that a total or partial exclusion from "all-risk" insurance coverage for losses due to terrorist acts is a breach of these debt and ground lease instruments allowing the lenders or ground lessors to declare an event of default and accelerate repayment of debt or recapture of ground lease positions. in addition, if lenders prevail in asserting that we are required to maintain full coverage for these risks, it could result in substantially higher insurance premiums. we have a 49.9% interest in the property at 100 park avenue, where we participate with prudential, which carries a blanket policy of $500.0 million of "all-risk" property insurance, including terrorism coverage. we own one madison avenue, which is under a triple net lease with insurance provided by the tenant, credit suisse securities (usa) llc, or cs. we have a 50.6% interest in the property at 388 and 390 greenwich street, where we participate with sitq, which is leased on a triple net basis to citigroup, n.a., which provides insurance coverage directly. we monitor all triple net leases to ensure that tenants are providing adequate coverage. other joint ventures may be covered under policies separate from our policies, at coverage limits which we deem to be adequate. we continually monitor these policies. although we consider our insurance coverage to be appropriate, in the event of a major catastrophe, such as an act of terrorism, we may not have sufficient coverage to replace certain properties. our dependence on smaller and growth-oriented businesses to rent our office space could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. many of the tenants in our properties are smaller, growth-oriented businesses that may not have the financial strength of larger corporate tenants. smaller companies generally experience a higher rate of failure than large businesses. growth-oriented firms may also seek other office space as they develop. dependence on these companies could create a higher risk of tenant defaults, turnover and bankruptcies, which could adversely affect our distributable cash flow and results of operations. debt financing, financial covenants, degree of leverage, and increases in interest rates could adversely affect our economic performance. scheduled debt payments could adversely affect our results of operations. cash flow could be insufficient to pay dividends and meet the payments of principal and interest required under our current mortgage and other indebtedness, 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility, senior unsecured notes, debentures and indebtedness outstanding at our joint venture properties. the total principal amount of our outstanding consolidated indebtedness was approximately $5.3 billion as of december 31, 2010, consisting of approximately $650.0 million under our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility, $1.1 billion under our senior unsecured notes, $100.0 million under our junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures and approximately $3.4 billion of non-recourse mortgages and loans payable on 21 of our investments and a recourse loan on one of our investments. in addition, we could increase the amount of our outstanding indebtedness in the future, in part by borrowing under our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility, which had $776.9 million available for draw as of 14 table of contents december 31, 2010. our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility matures in june 2011 and has a one-year as-of-right extension option. as of december 31, 2010, the total principal amount of non-recourse indebtedness outstanding at the joint venture properties was approximately $3.7 billion, of which our proportionate share was approximately $1.6 billion. if we are unable to make payments under our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility, all amounts due and owing at such time shall accrue interest at a rate equal to 4% higher than the rate at which each draw was made. if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property, resulting in loss of income and asset value. foreclosure on mortgaged properties or an inability to make payments under our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility or our senior unsecured notes would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to refinance existing indebtedness, which may require substantial principal payments at maturity. in 2011, approximately $84.8 million of corporate indebtedness, $216.7 million of debt on our consolidated properties and $589.0 million of debt on our unconsolidated joint venture properties will mature. at the present time we intend to exercise extension options, repay, or refinance the debt associated with our properties on or prior to their respective maturity dates. at the time of refinancing, prevailing interest rates or other factors, such as the possible reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans may result in higher interest rates. increased interest expense on the refinanced debt would adversely affect cash flow and our ability to service debt and make distributions to stockholders. if any principal payments due at maturity cannot be repaid, refinanced or extended, our cash flow will not be sufficient in all years to repay all maturing debt. financial covenants could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. the mortgages and mezzanine loans on our properties generally contain customary negative covenants that limit our ability to further mortgage the properties, to enter into new leases without lender consent or materially modify existing leases, and to discontinue insurance coverage. in addition, our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility contains customary restrictions and requirements on our method of operations. our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility and senior unsecured bonds also require us to maintain designated ratios, including but not limited to, total debt-to-assets, debt service coverage and unencumbered assets-to-unsecured debt. these restrictions could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. rising interest rates could adversely affect our cash flow. advances under our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility and certain property-level mortgage debt bear interest at a variable rate. these consolidated variable rate borrowings totaled approximately $1.1 billion at december 31, 2010. in addition, we could increase the amount of our outstanding variable rate debt in the future, in part by borrowing under our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility, which had $776.9 million available for draw as of december 31, 2010. borrowings under our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility currently bear interest at a spread equal to the 30-day libor, plus 90 basis points. as of december 31, 2010, borrowings under our 2007 unsecured revolving credit facility and junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures totaled $650.0 million, and $100.0 million, respectively, and bore interest at 1.18% and 5.61%, respectively. at december 31, 2010, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates across each of our variable interest rate instruments would increase our annual interest costs by approximately $11.0 million and would increase our share of joint venture annual interest costs by approximately $6.7 million. accordingly, increases in interest rates could adversely affect our ability to continue to make distributions to stockholders. we may incur indebtedness in the future that also bears interest at a variable rate or may be required to refinance our debt at higher rates, which would also reduce our ability to make distributions to stockholders. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect results of operations. the interest rate hedge instruments we use to manage some of our exposure to interest rate volatility involve risk, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. in addition, 15 table of contents these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. no limitation on debt could adversely affect our cash flow. our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness we may incur. as of december 31, 2010, assuming the conversion of all outstanding units of the operating partnership into shares of our common stock, our combined debt-to-market capitalization ratio, including our share of joint venture debt of approximately $1.6 billion, was approximately 54.3%. our market capitalization is variable and does not necessarily reflect the fair market value of our assets at all times. we also consider factors other than market capitalization in making decisions regarding the incurrence of indebtedness, such as the purchase price of properties to be acquired with debt financing, the estimated market value of our properties upon refinancing and the ability of particular properties and our business as a whole to generate cash flow to cover expected debt service. any changes that increase our debt to market capitalization percentage could be viewed negatively by investors. as a result, our stock price could decrease. debt and preferred equity investments could cause us to incur expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we owned first mortgages, mezzanine loans, junior participations and preferred equity interests in 23 investments with an aggregate net book value of approximately $963.8 million at december 31, 2010. such investments may or may not be recourse obligations of the borrower and are not insured or guaranteed by governmental agencies or otherwise. in the event of a default under these obligations, we may have to take possession of the collateral securing these interests. borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against such enforcement and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce their obligations to us. relatively high loan-to-value ratios and declines in the value of the property may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our investment upon foreclosure or realization even if we make substantial improvements or repairs to the underlying real estate in order to maximize such property's investment potential. we maintain and regularly evaluate financial reserves to protect against potential future losses. our reserves reflect management's judgment of the probability and severity of losses and the value of the underlying collateral. we cannot be certain that our judgment will prove to be correct and that our reserves will be adequate over time to protect against future losses because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific properties, assets, tenants, borrowers, industries in which our tenants and borrowers operate or markets in which our tenants and borrowers or their properties are located. we believe the increase in our non-performing loans in 2008 through 2010 was driven by the recent credit crisis, which adversely impacted the ability of many of our borrowers to service their debt and refinance our loans to them at maturity. we significantly increased our provision for loan losses to $93.8 million and our direct write-offs to $69.1 million in 2009 based upon the performance of our assets and conditions in the financial markets and overall economy, which continued to deteriorate in 2009. we recorded approximately $19.8 million in loan loss reserves and charge offs in 2010 on debt and preferred equity investments being held to maturity and $1.0 million on debt and preferred equity investments held for sale in 2010. if our reserves for credit losses prove inadequate, we could suffer losses which would have a material adverse affect on our financial performance, the market prices of our securities and our ability to pay dividends. special servicing activities could result in liability to us. we provide special servicing activities on behalf of third parties. we have been rated by fitch and s&amp;p to provide such services. an intended or unintended breach of the servicing standards and/or our fiduciary duties to bondholders could result in material liability to us. 16 table of contents joint investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority and reliance upon a co-venturer's financial condition. we co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures, co-tenancies or other entities, acquiring non-controlling interests in, or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of, a property, partnership, joint venture, co-tenancy or other entity. therefore, we will not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding such property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. investments in partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities may involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that our partners, co-tenants or co-venturers might become bankrupt or otherwise fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. additionally, our partners or co-venturers might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals, which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals. these investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions such as a sale, because neither we, nor the partner, co-tenant or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. consequently, actions by such partner, co-tenant or co-venturer might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. in addition, we may in specific circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners, co-tenants or co-venturers. as of december 31, 2010, our unconsolidated joint ventures owned 21 properties and we had an aggregate cost basis in these joint ventures totaling approximately $631.6 million. as of december 31, 2010, our share of unconsolidated joint venture debt, which is non-recourse to us, totaled approximately $1.6 billion. certain of our joint venture agreements contain terms in favor of our partners that could have an adverse effect on the value of our investments in the joint ventures. each of our joint venture agreements has been individually negotiated with our partner in the joint venture and, in some cases, we have agreed to terms that are more favorable to our partner in the joint venture than to us. for example, our partner may be entitled to a specified portion of the profits of the joint venture before we are entitled to any portion of such profits and our partner may have rights to buy our interest in the joint venture, to force us to buy the partner's interest in the joint venture or to compel the sale of the property owned by such joint venture. these rights may permit our partner in a particular joint venture to obtain a greater benefit from the value or profits of the joint venture than us, which could have an adverse effect on the value of our investment in the joint venture and on our financial condition and results of operations. we may also enter into similar arrangements in the future. we may incur costs to comply with environmental laws. we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws. these laws regulate our use, storage, disposal and management of hazardous substances and wastes and can impose liability on property owners or operators for the clean-up of certain hazardous substances released on a property and any associated damage to natural resources without regard to whether the release was legal or whether it was caused by the property owner or operator. the presence of hazardous substances on our properties may adversely affect occupancy and our ability to develop or sell or borrow against those properties. in addition to potential liability for clean-up costs, private plaintiffs may bring claims for personal injury, property damage or for similar reasons. various laws also impose liability for the clean-up of contamination at any facility (e.g., a landfill) to which we have sent hazardous substances for treatment or disposal, without regard to whether the materials were transported, treated and disposed in accordance with law. being held responsible for such a clean-up could result in significant cost to us and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may incur significant costs complying with the americans with disabilities act and similar laws. our properties may be subject to risks relating to current or future laws including laws benefiting disabled persons, and other state or local zoning, construction or other regulations. these laws may require significant property modifications in the future, which could result in fines being levied against us in the future. the 17 table of contents occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse impact on our cash flows and ability to make distributions to stockholders. under the americans with disabilities act, or ada, all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. additional federal, state and local laws also may require modifications to our properties, or restrict our ability to renovate our properties. we have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance. if one or more of our properties is not in compliance with the ada or other legislation, then we may be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance with the ada or similar state or local laws. we cannot predict the ultimate amount of the cost of compliance with ada or other legislation. if we incur substantial costs to comply with the ada and any other legislation, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and/or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders could be adversely affected. our charter documents, debt instruments and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us, which could discourage takeover attempts and prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium over the market price of our stock. provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws could inhibit changes in control. a change of control of our company could benefit stockholders by providing them with a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our stock. however, provisions contained in our articles of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent a change in control of our company. these provisions, discussed more fully below, are: staggered board of directors; ownership limitations; and the board of director's ability to issue additional common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval our board of directors is staggered into three separate classes. the board of directors of our company is divided into three classes. the terms of the class i, class ii and class iii directors expire in 2013, 2011 and 2012, respectively. our staggered board may deter a change in control because of the increased time period necessary for a third party to acquire control of the board. we have a stock ownership limit. to remain qualified as a reit for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of any taxable year. for this purpose, stock may be "owned" directly, as well as indirectly under certain constructive ownership rules, including, for example, rules that attribute stock held by one family member to another family member. in part, to avoid violating this rule regarding stock ownership limitations and maintain our reit qualification, our articles of incorporation prohibit ownership by any single stockholder of more than 9.0% in value or number of shares of our common stock. limitations on the ownership of preferred stock may also be imposed by us. our board of directors has the discretion to raise or waive this limitation on ownership for any stockholder if deemed to be in our best interest. to obtain a waiver, a stockholder must present the board and our tax counsel with evidence that ownership in excess of this limit will not affect our present or future reit status. 18 table of contents absent any exemption or waiver, stock acquired or held in excess of the limit on ownership will be transferred to a trust for the exclusive benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary, and the stockholder's rights to distributions and to vote would terminate. the stockholder would be entitled to receive, from the proceeds of any subsequent sale of the shares transferred to the charitable trust, the lesser of: the price paid for the stock or, if the owner did not pay for the stock, the market price of the stock on the date of the event causing the stock to be transferred to the charitable trust; and the amount realized from the sale. this limitation on ownership of stock could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. debt may not be assumable. we have approximately $1.9 billion in unsecured corporate debt. this debt may be unassumable by a potential purchaser and may be subject to significant prepayment penalties. maryland takeover statutes may prevent a change of control of our company, which could depress our stock price. under maryland law, "business combinations" between a maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. these business combinations include a merger, consolidation, stock exchange, or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. an interested stockholder is defined as: any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation's outstanding shares; or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock of the corporation. a person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if the board of directors approves in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. after the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by the board of directors of the corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least: 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation, voting together as a single group; and two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder. the business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer, including potential acquisitions that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. in addition, maryland law provides that "control shares" of a maryland corporation acquired in a "control share acquisition" will not have voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares of stock owned by the acquiror, by officers of the corporation or by directors who are employees of the corporation, under the maryland control share acquisition act. "control shares" means voting shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock owned by the acquiror or in respect of which the acquiror is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of voting power: (i) one-tenth or more but less than one-third, (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority, or (iii) a majority or more of all voting power. a "control share acquisition" means the 19 table of contents acquisition of ownership of, or the power to direct the exercise of voting power with respect to, issued and outstanding control shares, subject to certain exceptions. we have opted out of these provisions of the maryland general corporation law, or the mgcl, with respect to business combinations and control share acquisitions by resolution of our board of directors and a provision in our bylaws, respectively. however, in the future, our board of directors may reverse its decision by resolution and elect to opt in to the mgcl's business combination provisions, or amend our bylaws and elect to opt in to the mgcl's control share provisions. additionally, the mgcl permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses, some of which we do not have. such takeover defenses, if implemented, may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making us an acquisition proposal or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with an opportunity to realize a premium over the then-current market price. future issuances of common stock, preferred stock and convertible debt could dilute existing stockholders' interests. our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue additional shares of common stock, preferred stock and convertible debt without stockholder approval. any such issuance could dilute our existing stockholders' interests. also, any future series of preferred stock may have voting provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company. changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. as with other publicly traded equity securities, the value of our common stock depends on various market conditions, which may change from time to time. among the market conditions that may affect the value of our common stock are the following: the general reputation of reits and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies; our financial performance; and general stock and bond market conditions. the market value of our common stock is based primarily upon the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash dividends. consequently, our common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share of common stock. if our future earnings or cash dividends are less than expected, the market price of our common stock could diminish. market interest rates may have an effect on the value of our common stock. if market interest rates go up, prospective purchasers of shares of our common stock may expect a higher distribution rate on our common stock. higher market interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for us to distribute and, to the contrary, would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of our common stock to go down. limitations on our ability to sell or reduce the indebtedness on specific mortgaged properties could adversely affect the value of the stock. on may 15, 2002, we acquired the property located at 1515 broadway, new york, new york. under a tax protection agreement established to protect the limited partners of the partnership that transferred 1515 broadway to us, we have agreed not to take certain action that would adversely affect the limited partners' tax positions before december 31, 2011. we acquired the property located at 625 madison avenue, new york, new york on 20 table of contents october 19, 2004 and have agreed not to take certain action that would adversely affect the tax positions of certain of the partners who held interests in this property prior to the acquisition, for a period of seven years after the acquisition. in connection with future acquisitions of interests in properties, we may agree to similar restrictions on our ability to sell or refinance the acquired properties. these limitations could have adverse consequences on our business and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we face potential conflicts of interest. there are potential conflicts of interest between us and mr. green. there is a potential conflict of interest relating to the disposition of certain property contributed to us by stephen l. green, and his family in our initial public offering. mr. green serves as the chairman of our board of directors and is an executive officer. as part of our formation, mr. green contributed appreciated property, with a net book value of $73.5 million, to our operating partnership in exchange for units of limited partnership interest in the operating partnership. he did not recognize any taxable gain as a result of the contribution. the operating partnership, however, took a tax basis in the contributed property equal to that of the contributing unitholder. the fair market value of the property contributed by him exceeded his tax basis by approximately $34.0 million at the time of contribution. the difference between fair market value and tax basis at the time of contribution represents a built-in gain. if we sell a property in a transaction in which a taxable gain is recognized, for tax purposes the built-in gain would be allocated solely to him and not to us. as a result, mr. green has a conflict of interest if the sale of a property, he contributed, is in our best interest but not his. there is a potential conflict of interest relating to the refinancing of indebtedness specifically allocated to mr. green. mr. green would recognize gain if he were to receive a distribution of cash from the operating partnership in an amount that exceeds his tax basis in his partnership units. his tax basis includes his share of debt, including mortgage indebtedness, owed by our operating partnership. if our operating partnership were to retire such debt, then he would experience a decrease in his share of liabilities, which, for tax purposes, would be treated as a distribution of cash to him. to the extent the deemed distribution of cash exceeded his tax basis, he would recognize gain. members of management may have a conflict of interest over whether to enforce terms of agreements with entities which senior management, directly or indirectly, has an affiliation. through alliance building services, or alliance, first quality maintenance, l.p., or first quality, provides cleaning, extermination and related services, classic security llc provides security services, bright star couriers llc provides messenger services, and onyx restoration works provides restoration services with respect to certain properties owned by us. alliance is partially owned by gary green, a son of stephen l. green, the chairman of our board of directors. our company and our tenants accounted for approximately 25.1% of alliance's 2010 estimated total revenue. the contracts pursuant to which these services are provided are not the result of arm's length negotiations and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the terms and conditions are not less favorable than those which could be obtained from third parties providing comparable services. in addition, to the extent that we choose to enforce our rights under any of these agreements, we may determine to pursue available remedies, such as actions for damages or injunctive relief, less vigorously than we otherwise might because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with gary green. members of management may have a conflict of interest over whether to enforce terms of senior management's employment and noncompetition agreements. stephen green, marc holliday, andrew mathias, andrew levine and james mead entered into employment and noncompetition agreements with us pursuant to which they have agreed not to actively engage in the acquisition, development or operation of office real estate in the new york city metropolitan area. for the most part, these restrictions apply to the executive both during his employment and for a period of time thereafter. 21 table of contents each executive is also prohibited from otherwise disrupting or interfering with our business through the solicitation of our employees or clients or otherwise. to the extent that we choose to enforce our rights under any of these agreements, we may determine to pursue available remedies, such as actions for damages or injunctive relief, less vigorously than we otherwise might because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with the individual involved. additionally, the non-competition provisions of these agreements despite being limited in scope and duration, could be difficult to enforce, or may be subject to limited enforcement, should litigation arise over them in the future. mr. green also has interests in two properties in manhattan, which are exempt from the non-competition provisions of his employment and non-competition agreement. our failure to qualify as a reit would be costly. we believe we have operated in a manner to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes and intend to continue to so operate. many of these requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. the determination that we are a reit requires an analysis of factual matters and circumstances. these matters, some of which are not totally within our control, can affect our qualification as a reit. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income must come from designated sources that are listed in the reit tax laws. we are also required to distribute to stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income excluding capital gains. the fact that we hold our assets through the operating partnership and its subsidiaries further complicates the application of the reit requirements. even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our reit status. furthermore, congress and the internal revenue service, which we refer to as the irs, might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified as a reit. if we fail to qualify as a reit, we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. also, unless the irs grants us relief under specific statutory provisions, we would remain disqualified as a reit for four years following the year in which we first failed to qualify. if we failed to qualify as a reit, we would have to pay significant income taxes and would therefore have less money available for investments or for distributions to stockholders. this would likely have a significant adverse effect on the value of our securities. in addition, the reit tax laws would no longer require us to make any distributions to stockholders. we may change the dividend policy for our common stock in the future. recent internal revenue service revenue procedures allow us to satisfy the reit income distribution requirements with respect to our 2009, 2010 and 2011 taxable years by distributing up to 90% of our dividends for any such year on our common stock in shares of our common stock in lieu of paying dividends entirely in cash, so long as we follow a process allowing our stockholders to elect cash or stock subject to a cap that we impose on the maximum amount of cash that will be paid. although we reserve the right to utilize this procedure in the future, we did not utilize it for 2009 or 2010 and we currently have no intent to do so. in the event that we pay a portion of a dividend in shares of our common stock, taxable u.s. stockholders would be required to pay tax on the entire amount of the dividend, including the portion paid in shares of common stock, in which case such stockholders might have to pay the tax using cash from other sources. if a u.s. stockholder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. furthermore, with respect to non-u.s. stockholders, we may be required to withhold u.s. tax with respect to such dividend, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. in addition, if a significant number of our stockholders sell shares of our common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, such sales could put downward pressure on the market price of our common stock. our board of directors will continue to evaluate our distribution policy on a quarterly basis as it monitors the capital markets and the impact of the economy on our operations. the decision to authorize and pay dividends on our common stock in the future, as well as the timing, amount and composition of any such future dividends, will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors in light of conditions then existing, including the company's 22 table of contents earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, debt maturities, the availability of capital, applicable reit and legal restrictions and the general overall economic conditions and other factors. previously enacted tax legislation reduces tax rates for dividends paid by non-reit corporations. under certain previously enacted tax legislation, the maximum tax rate on dividends to individuals has generally been reduced to 15% (from january 1, 2003 through december 31, 2011). the reduction in rates on dividends is generally not applicable to dividends paid by a reit except in limited circumstances that we do not contemplate. although this legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of reits or dividends paid by reits, the favorable treatment of regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals to consider stock of non-reit corporations that pay dividends as relatively more attractive than stocks of reits. it is not possible to determine whether such a change in perceived relative value has occurred or what the effect, if any, this legislation has had or will have in the future on the market price of our stock. we are dependent on external sources of capital. because of distribution requirements imposed on us to qualify as a reit, it is not likely that we will be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisitions, from income from operations. we therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. in addition, we anticipate having to raise money in the public equity and debt markets with some regularity and our ability to do so will depend upon the general conditions prevailing in these markets. at any time conditions may exist which effectively prevent us, or reits in general, from accessing these markets. moreover, additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of our stockholders' interests, and additional debt financing may substantially increase our leverage. we face significant competition for tenants. the leasing of real estate is highly competitive. the principal means of competition are rent, location, services provided and the nature and condition of the facility to be leased. we directly compete with all lessors and developers of similar space in the areas in which our properties are located. demand for retail space has been affected by the recent bankruptcy of a number of retail companies and a general trend toward consolidation in the retail industry, which could adversely affect the ability of our company to attract and retain tenants. our commercial office properties are concentrated in highly developed areas of midtown manhattan and certain suburban central business districts, or cbds. manhattan is the largest office market in the united states. the number of competitive office properties in manhattan and cbds in which our suburban properties are located (which may be newer or better located than our properties) could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease office space at our properties, and on the effective rents we are able to charge. loss of our key personnel could harm our operations. we are dependent on the efforts of marc holliday, our chief executive officer, and andrew mathias, our president. these officers have employment agreements which expire in january 2013 and december 2013, respectively. a loss of the services of either of these individuals could adversely affect our operations. our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. we may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. 23 table of contents compliance with changing or new regulation applicable to corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses, affect our operations and affect our reputation. changing or new laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including sec regulations and new york stock exchange rules, can create uncertainty for public companies. these changed or new laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity. as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. we are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. if our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. as a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. in particular, our efforts to comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors' audit of that assessment have required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. in addition, it has become more difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. further, our directors, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. as a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified directors and executive officers, which could harm our business. forward-looking statements may prove inaccurate see item 7 "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations forward-looking information" for additional disclosure regarding forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk see item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market rate risk" for additional information regarding our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. the table below presents the principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of our debt obligations and debt and preferred equity investments and the related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates, including as-of-right extension options, as of december 31, 2010 (in thousands): long-term debt debt and preferred equity investments date fixed rate average interest rate variable rate average interest rate amount weighted yield 2011 $ 329,860 6.12 % $ 1,579 2.02 % $ 272,374 10.85 % 2012 154,944 6.12 % 761,872 2.43 % 115,686 3.06 % 2013 335,662 6.13 % 321,200 2.90 % 39,037 4.47 % 2014 306,603 6.20 % 3.27 % 84,804 11.75 % 2015 361,090 6.26 % 3.27 % % thereafter 2,648,203 6.49 % 30,000 3.27 % 451,871 7.13 % total $ 4,136,362 6.49 % $ 1,114,651 2.27 % $ 963,772 7.99 % fair value $ 4,312,600 $ 1,060,500 (1) our debt and preferred equity investments had an estimated fair value ranging between $578.3 million and $867.4 million at december 31, 2010. the table below presents the principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of our share of our joint venture debt obligations and the related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates as of december 31, 2010 (in thousands): long term debt date fixed rate average interest rate variable rate average interest rate 2011 $ 405 4.19 % $ 207,333 3.37 % 2012 13,029 4.18 % 48,462 2.99 % 2013 1,182 4.17 % 40,233 3.10 % 2014 99,802 4.12 % 239,382 3.14 % 2015 94,500 3.86 % 2,286 2.13 % thereafter 774,304 3.26 % 83,001 2.05 % total $ 983,222 3.96 % $ 620,697 3.06 % fair value $ 993,675 $ 619,147 61 table of contents the table below lists all of our derivative instruments, which are hedging variable rate debt, excluding joint ventures, and their related fair value as of december 31, 2010 (in thousands): asset hedged benchmark rate notional value strike rate effective date expiration date fair value interest rate cap mortgage libor 128,000 6.000 % 2/2010 2/2011 interest rate cap mortgage libor 110,180 6.000 % 2/2011 2/2012 2 interest rate cap mortgage libor 139,672 5.000 % 1/2010 1/2011 interest rate cap mortgage libor 139,672 5.000 % 1/2011 1/2012 2 interest rate swap mortgage receivable libor 30,000 2.295 % 7/2010 6/2016 (132 ) currency hedge mortgage receivable gbp-usd 20,748 1.55185 9/2010 12/2012 131 total consolidated hedges $ 3 in addition to these derivative instruments, some of our joint venture loan agreements require the joint venture to purchase interest rate caps on its debt. all such interest rate caps were out of the money at december 31, 2010. we had also hedged certain floating rate debt at a joint venture. these hedges represented an obligation of approximately $36.5 million at december 31, 2010. 62 table of contentsrisk factors declines in the demand for office space in new york city, and in particular midtown manhattan, as well as our suburban markets, including westchester county, connecticut, new jersey and long island, resulting from general economic conditions could adversely affect the value of our real estate portfolio and our results of operations and, consequently, our ability to service current debt and to pay dividends to stockholders. most of our commercial office properties, based on square footage, are located in midtown manhattan. as a result, our business is dependent on the condition of the new york city economy in general and the market for office space in midtown manhattan in particular. continuing weakness and uncertainty in the new york city economy could materially reduce the value of our real estate portfolio and our rental revenues, and thus adversely affect our cash flow and ability to service current debt and to pay dividends to stockholders. similarly, continuing weakness and uncertainty in our suburban markets could adversely affect our cash flow and ability to service current debt and to pay dividends to stockholders. we may be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases expire. when our tenants decide not to renew their leases upon their expiration, we may not be able to relet the space. even if tenants do renew or we can relet the space, the terms of renewal or reletting, taking into account among other things, the cost of tenant improvements and leasing commissions, may be less favorable than the terms in the expired leases. as of december 31, 2011, approximately 7.0 million and 1.9 million square feet, representing approximately 40.0% and 65.0% of the rentable square feet, are scheduled to expire by december 31, 2016 at our consolidated properties and unconsolidated joint venture properties, respectively, and as of december 31, 2011, these leases had annualized escalated rent totaling approximately $448.6 million and $102.2 million, respectively. we also have leases with termination options beyond 2016. if we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet the space at similar rates, our cash flow and ability to service debt and pay dividends to stockholders could be adversely affected. the expiration of long term leases or operating sublease interests could adversely affect our results of operations. our interests in 673 first avenue, 420 lexington avenue, 461 fifth avenue, 711 third avenue, 625 madison avenue, 1185 avenue of the americas, all in manhattan, and 1055 washington avenue, stamford, connecticut, are through either long-term leasehold or operating sublease interests in the land and the improvements, rather than by ownership of fee interest in the land. we have the ability to acquire the fee position at 461 fifth avenue for a fixed price on a specific date. unless we can purchase a fee interest in the underlying land or extend the terms of these leases before their expiration, we will lose our right to operate these properties upon expiration of the leases, which would significantly adversely affect our results of operations. the average remaining term of these long-term leases as of december 31, 2011, including our unilateral extension rights on each of the properties, is approximately 41 years. pursuant to the leasehold arrangement, we, as tenant under the operating sublease, perform the functions traditionally performed by landlords with respect to our subtenants. we are responsible for not only collecting rent from our subtenants, but also maintaining the property and paying expenses relating to the property. our share of annualized cash rents of these properties at december 31, 2011 totaled approximately $244.2 million, or 21%, of our share of total portfolio annualized cash rent. our results of operations rely on major tenants, including in the financial services sector, and insolvency, bankruptcy or receivership of these or other tenants could adversely affect our results of operations. giving effect to leases in effect as of december 31, 2011 for consolidated properties and unconsolidated joint venture properties, as of that date, our five largest tenants, based on square footage leased, accounted for approximately 23.3% of our share of portfolio annualized cash rent, with three tenants, citigroup, inc., viacom international inc. and credit suisse securities (usa) llc accounting for approximately 7.2%, 6.9% and 6.4% of our share of portfolio annualized cash rent, respectively. in addition, the financial services sector accounted for approximately 39% of our portfolio annualized cash rent as of december 31, 2011. this sector continues to experience significant turmoil. if current economic conditions persist or deteriorate, we may experience increases 10 table of contents in past due accounts, defaults, lower occupancy and reduced effective rents, particularly in respect of our financial service tenants. our business would be adversely affected if any of our major tenants became insolvent, declared bankruptcy, are put into receivership or otherwise refused to pay rent in a timely fashion or at all. adverse economic and geopolitical conditions in general and the northeastern commercial office markets in particular could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. our business may be affected by the unprecedented volatility and illiquidity in the financial and credit markets and other market or economic challenges experienced by the u.s. economy or real estate industry as a whole. as a result of the economic downturn that began in the second half of 2007, demand for office and retail space declined nationwide due to bankruptcies, downsizing, layoffs and cost cutting. real estate transactions and development opportunities lessened compared to the period prior to the current economic downturn and capitalization rates rose. as a result, the cost and availability of credit was, and may in down markets be, adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. economic weakness and uncertainty, including concern about the stability of the markets generally and the strength of counterparties specifically has led, and may lead, many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide funding to borrowers, and this may adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our tenants. our business may also be adversely affected by local economic conditions, as substantially all of our revenues are derived from our properties located in the northeast, particularly in new york, new jersey and connecticut. because our portfolio consists primarily of commercial office buildings (as compared to a more diversified real estate portfolio) located principally in manhattan, if negative economic conditions persist or deteriorate, then our results of operations, financial condition and ability to service current debt and to pay dividends to our stockholders may be adversely affected. specifically, our business may be affected by the following conditions: significant job losses in the financial and professional services industries which may decrease demand for our office space, causing market rental rates and property values to be negatively impacted; our ability to borrow on terms and conditions that we find acceptable, or at all, may be limited, which could reduce our ability to pursue acquisition and development opportunities and refinance existing debt, reduce our returns from both our existing operations and our acquisition and development activities and increase our future interest expense; reduced values of our properties, which may limit our ability to dispose of assets at attractive prices or to obtain debt financing secured by our properties and may reduce the availability of unsecured loans; and reduced liquidity in debt markets and increased credit risk premiums for certain market participants, which may impair our ability to access capital. these conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and ability to service debt and pay dividends to stockholders, may continue or worsen in the future. we may suffer adverse consequences if our revenues decline since our operating costs do not necessarily decline in proportion to our revenue. we earn a significant portion of our income from renting our properties. our operating costs, however, do not necessarily fluctuate in proportion to changes in our rental revenue. as a result, our costs will not necessarily decline even if our revenues do. similarly, our operating costs could increase while our revenues stay flat or decline. in either such event, we may be forced to borrow to cover our costs, we may incur losses or we may not have cash available to service our debt and to pay dividends to our stockholders. 11 table of contents we face risks associated with property acquisitions. we may acquire individual properties and portfolios of properties, including large portfolios that could significantly increase our size and alter our capital structure. our acquisition activities may be exposed to, and their success may be adversely affected by, the following risks: even if we enter into an acquisition agreement for a property, it is usually subject to customary conditions to closing; we may be unable to finance acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; acquired properties may fail to perform as we expected; our estimates of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping acquired properties may be inaccurate; we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for new properties; acquired properties may be located in new markets where we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, lack of business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures; and we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and therefore our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. as a result, if a liability were asserted against us arising from our ownership of those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. unknown liabilities with respect to properties acquired might include: claims by tenants, vendors or other persons arising from dealing with the former owners of the properties; liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties; and liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination. competition for acquisitions may reduce the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and increase the costs of those acquisitions. we plan to continue to acquire properties as we are presented with attractive opportunities. we may face competition for acquisition opportunities from other investors, particularly those investors who can incur more leverage, and this competition may adversely affect us by subjecting us to the following risks: an inability to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well-capitalized real estate investors, including publicly traded and privately held reits, private real estate funds, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, pension trusts, partnerships and individual investors; and an increase in the purchase price for such acquisition property, in the event we are able to acquire such desired property. we rely on five large properties for a significant portion of our revenue. five of our properties, 420 lexington avenue, one madison avenue, 1185 avenue of the americas, 1515 broadway and 388-390 greenwich street, accounted for approximately 32% of our portfolio annualized cash rent, which includes our share of joint venture annualized rent as of december 31, 2011. our revenue and cash available for distribution to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected if any of these properties were materially damaged or destroyed. additionally, our revenue and cash available to service debt and for distribution 12 table of contents to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected if tenants at these properties fail to timely make rental payments due to adverse financial conditions or otherwise, default under their leases or filing for bankruptcy. the continuing threat of terrorist attacks may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to generate cash flow. there may be a decrease in demand for space in new york city because it is considered at risk for future terrorist attacks, and this decrease may reduce our revenues from property rentals. in the aftermath of a terrorist attack, tenants in the new york city area may choose to relocate their business to less populated, lower-profile areas of the united states that those tenants believe are not as likely to be targets of future terrorist activity. this in turn could trigger a decrease in the demand for space in the new york city area, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease our properties on less favorable terms. as a result, the value of our properties and the level of our revenues could materially decline. a terrorist attack could cause insurance premiums to increase significantly. we maintain "all-risk" property and rental value coverage (including coverage regarding the perils of flood, earthquake and terrorism) within two property insurance portfolios and liability insurance. the first property portfolio maintains a blanket limit of $750.0 million per occurrence, including terrorism, for the majority of the new york city properties in our portfolio. this policy expires on december 31, 2012. the second portfolio maintains a limit of $600.0 million per occurrence, including terrorism, for some new york city properties and the majority of the suburban properties. the second property policy expires on december 31, 2012. additional coverage may be purchased on a stand-alone basis for certain assets. we maintain liability policies which cover all our properties and provide limits of $201.0 million per occurrence and in the aggregate per location. the liability policies expire on october 31, 2012. in october 2006, we formed a wholly-owned taxable reit subsidiary, belmont insurance company, or belmont, to act as a captive insurance company and be one of the elements of our overall insurance program. belmont was formed in an effort to, among other reasons, stabilize to some extent the fluctuations of insurance market conditions. belmont is licensed in new york to write terrorism, nbcr (nuclear, biological, chemical, and radiological), general liability, environmental liability and d&amp;o coverage. terrorism: belmont acts as a direct property insurer with respect to a portion of our terrorism coverage for the new york city properties. effective december 31, 2010, belmont increased its terrorism coverage from $400.0 million to $650.0 million in a layer in excess of $100.0 million. in addition, belmont purchased reinsurance to reinsure the retained insurable risk not otherwise covered under terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization and extension act of 2007, or tripra, as detailed below. nbcr: belmont acts as a direct insurer of nbcr and since december 31, 2011, has provided coverage up to $750 million on the entire property portfolio for certified acts of terrorism above a program trigger of $100.0 million. belmont is responsible for a small deductible and 15% of a loss, with the remaining 85% covered by the federal government. general liability: for the period commencing october 31, 2010, belmont insures a retention on the general liability insurance of $150,000 per occurrence and a $2.1 million annual aggregate stop loss limit. we have secured excess insurance to protect against catastrophic liability losses above the $150,000 retention. prior policy years carried a higher per occurrence deductible and/or higher aggregate stop loss. belmont has retained a third party administrator to manage all claims within the retention and we anticipate that direct management of liability claims will improve loss experience and ultimately lower the cost of liability insurance in future years. in addition, we have an umbrella liability policy of $200.0 million per occurrence and in the aggregate on a per location basis. environmental liability: belmont insures a deductible of $975,000 per occurrence in excess of $25,000 on a $25.0 million per occurrence/$30.0 million aggregate environmental liability policy covering the entire portfolio. 13 table of contents as long as we own belmont, we are responsible for its liquidity and capital resources, and the accounts of belmont are part of our consolidated financial statements. if we experience a loss and belmont is required to pay under its insurance policy, we would ultimately record the loss to the extent of belmont's required payment. therefore, insurance coverage provided by belmont should not be considered as the equivalent of third-party insurance, but rather as a modified form of self-insurance. the terrorism risk insurance act, or tria, which was enacted in november 2002, was renewed on december 31, 2007. congress extended tria, now called tripra (terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization and extension act of 2007) until december 31, 2014. the law extends the federal terrorism insurance program that requires insurance companies to offer terrorism coverage and provides for compensation for insured losses resulting from acts of certified terrorism, subject to the current program trigger of $100.0 million. our debt instruments, consisting of mortgage loans secured by our properties (which are generally non-recourse to us), mezzanine loans, ground leases, our 2011 revolving credit facility and other corporate obligations, contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance. although we believe that we currently maintain sufficient insurance coverage to satisfy these obligations, there is no assurance that in the future we will be able to procure coverage at a reasonable cost. in such instances, there can be no assurance that the lenders or ground lessors under these instruments will not take the position that a total or partial exclusion from "all-risk" insurance coverage for losses due to terrorist acts is a breach of these debt and ground lease instruments allowing the lenders or ground lessors to declare an event of default and accelerate repayment of debt or recapture of ground lease positions. in addition, if lenders prevail in asserting that we are required to maintain full coverage for these risks, it could result in substantially higher insurance premiums. we have a 49.9% interest in the property at 100 park avenue, where we participate with prudential, which carries a blanket policy of $500.0 million of "all-risk" property insurance, including terrorism coverage. we own one madison avenue, which is under a triple net lease with insurance provided by the tenant, credit suisse securities (usa) llc, or cs. we have a 50.6% interest in the property at 388 and 390 greenwich street, where we participate with sitq, which is leased on a triple net basis to citigroup, n.a., which provides insurance coverage directly. we monitor all triple net leases to ensure that tenants are providing adequate coverage. other joint ventures may be covered under policies separate from our policies, at coverage limits which we deem to be adequate. we continually monitor these policies. although we consider our insurance coverage to be appropriate, in the event of a major catastrophe, such as an act of terrorism, we may not have sufficient coverage to replace certain properties. we face possible risks associated with the physical effects of climate change. we cannot predict with certainty whether climate change is occurring and, if so, at what rate. however, the physical effects of climate change could have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations and business. for example, we own interests in commercial office properties in the new york metropolitan area, primarily in midtown manhattan. our investments in the new york metropolitan area also include investments in brooklyn, queens, long island, westchester county, connecticut and new jersey. to the extent climate change causes changes in weather patterns, our markets could experience increases in storm intensity and rising sea-levels. over time, these conditions could result in declining demand for office space in our buildings or the inability of us to operate the buildings at all. climate change may also have indirect effects on our business by increasing the cost of (or making unavailable) property insurance on terms we find acceptable, increasing the cost of energy and increasing the cost of snow removal at our properties. there can be no assurance that climate change will not have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations or business. leasing office space to smaller and growth-oriented businesses could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. many of the tenants in our properties are smaller, growth-oriented businesses that may not have the financial strength of larger corporate tenants. smaller companies generally experience a higher rate of failure than large businesses. growth-oriented firms may also seek other office space as they develop. leasing office space to these 14 table of contents companies could create a higher risk of tenant defaults, turnover and bankruptcies, which could adversely affect our distributable cash flow and results of operations. debt financing, financial covenants, degree of leverage, and increases in interest rates could adversely affect our economic performance. scheduled debt payments could adversely affect our results of operations. cash flow could be insufficient to pay dividends and meet the payments of principal and interest required under our current mortgages and other indebtedness, including our 2011 revolving credit facility, senior unsecured notes, debentures and indebtedness outstanding at our joint venture properties. the total principal amount of our outstanding consolidated indebtedness was approximately $6.0 billion as of december 31, 2011, consisting of approximately $350.0 million under our 2011 revolving credit facility, $1.3 billion under our senior unsecured notes, $100.0 million under our junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures and approximately $4.3 billion of non-recourse mortgages and loans payable on 22 of our investments and a recourse loan on one of our investments. in addition, we could increase the amount of our outstanding indebtedness in the future, in part by borrowing under our 2011 revolving credit facility, which had $1.1 billion undrawn capacity as of december 31, 2011. our 2011 revolving credit facility matures in november 2015 and has a one-year as-of-right extension option. as of december 31, 2011, the total principal amount of non-recourse indebtedness outstanding at the joint venture properties was approximately $4.1 billion, of which our proportionate share was approximately $1.8 billion. if we are unable to make payments under our 2011 revolving credit facility, all amounts due and owing at such time shall accrue interest at a rate equal to 2% higher than the rate at which each draw was made. if we are unable to make payments under our senior unsecured notes, the principal and unpaid interest will become immediately payable. if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property, resulting in loss of income and asset value. foreclosure on mortgaged properties or an inability to make payments under our 2011 revolving credit facility or our senior unsecured notes would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to refinance existing indebtedness, which may require substantial principal payments at maturity. in 2012, approximately $119.4 million of corporate indebtedness, no debt on our consolidated properties and $176.5 million of debt on our unconsolidated joint venture properties will mature. at the present time we intend to exercise extension options, repay or refinance the debt associated with our properties on or prior to their respective maturity dates. at the time of refinancing, prevailing interest rates or other factors, such as the possible reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans may result in higher interest rates. increased interest expense on the refinanced debt would adversely affect cash flow and our ability to service debt and pay dividends to stockholders. if any principal payments due at maturity cannot be repaid, refinanced or extended, our cash flow will not be sufficient in all years to repay all maturing debt. financial covenants could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. the mortgages and mezzanine loans on our properties generally contain customary negative covenants that limit our ability to further mortgage the properties, to enter into new leases without lender consent or materially modify existing leases, and to discontinue insurance coverage, among other things. in addition, our 2011 revolving credit facility and senior unsecured notes contain restrictions and requirements on our method of operations. our 2011 revolving credit facility and our unsecured notes also require us to maintain designated ratios, including but not limited to, total debt-to-assets, debt service coverage and unencumbered assets-to-unsecured debt. these restrictions could adversely affect our results of operations, our ability to pay debt obligations and our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. rising interest rates could adversely affect our cash flow. advances under our 2011 revolving credit facility and certain property-level mortgage debt bear interest at a variable rate. these consolidated variable rate borrowings totaled approximately $1.3 billion at december 31, 2011. in addition, we could increase the amount of our outstanding variable rate debt in the future, in part by 15 table of contents borrowing under our 2011 revolving credit facility, which had $1.1 billion available for draw as of december 31, 2011. borrowings under our 2011 revolving credit facility currently bear interest at the 30-day libor, plus a spread which was 150 basis points at december 31, 2011. as of december 31, 2011, borrowings under our 2011 revolving credit facility and junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures totaled $350.0 million and $100.0 million, respectively, and bore interest at 1.98% and 5.61%, respectively. we may incur indebtedness in the future that also bears interest at a variable rate or may be required to refinance our debt at higher rates. accordingly, increases in interest rates above that which we anticipated based upon historical trends could adversely affect our results of operations and financial conditions. at december 31, 2011, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates across each of our variable interest rate instruments would increase our annual interest costs by approximately $12.3 million and would increase our share of joint venture annual interest costs by approximately $4.8 million. accordingly, increases in interest rates could adversely affect our ability to continue to pay dividends to stockholders. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect results of operations. the interest rate hedge instruments we use to manage some of our exposure to interest rate volatility involve risk, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. in addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. no limitation on debt could adversely affect our cash flow. our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness we may incur. as of december 31, 2011, assuming the conversion of all outstanding units of the operating partnership into shares of our common stock, our combined debt-to-market capitalization ratio, including our share of joint venture debt of approximately $1.8 billion, was approximately 55.7%. our market capitalization is variable and does not necessarily reflect the fair market value of our assets at all times. we also consider factors other than market capitalization in making decisions regarding the incurrence of indebtedness, such as the purchase price of properties to be acquired with debt financing, the estimated market value of our properties upon refinancing and the ability of particular properties and our business as a whole to generate cash flow to cover expected debt service. any changes that increase our debt to market capitalization percentage could be viewed negatively by investors. as a result, our stock price could decrease. debt and preferred equity investments could cause us to incur expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we owned first mortgages, mezzanine loans, junior participations and preferred equity interests in 23 investments with an aggregate net book value of approximately $985.9 million at december 31, 2011. such investments may or may not be recourse obligations of the borrower and are not insured or guaranteed by governmental agencies or otherwise. in the event of a default under these obligations, we may have to take possession of the collateral securing these interests. borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against such enforcement and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce their obligations to us. relatively high loan-to-value ratios and declines in the value of the property may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our investment upon foreclosure or realization even if we make substantial improvements or repairs to the underlying real estate in order to maximize such property's investment potential. we maintain and regularly evaluate financial reserves to protect against potential future losses. our reserves reflect management's judgment of the probability and severity of losses and the value of the underlying collateral. we cannot be certain that our judgment will prove to be correct and that our reserves will be adequate over time to protect against future losses because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific properties, assets, tenants, borrowers, industries in which our tenants and borrowers operate or markets in which our tenants and borrowers or their properties are located. we recorded approximately $10.9 million in loan loss reserves and charge offs in 2011 on debt and preferred equity investments being held to 16 table of contents maturity and $4.4 million in recoveries of loans previously reserved. if our reserves for credit losses prove inadequate, we could suffer losses which would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, the market prices of our securities and our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. special servicing activities could result in liability to us. we provide special servicing activities on behalf of third parties. we have been rated by fitch and s&amp;p to provide such services. an intended or unintended breach of the servicing standards and/or our fiduciary duties to bondholders could result in material liability to us. joint investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority and reliance upon a co-venturer's financial condition. we co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures, co-tenancies or other structures, acquiring non-controlling interests in, or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of, a property, partnership, joint venture, co-tenancy or other entity. therefore, we will not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding such property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. investments in partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities may involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that our partners, co-tenants or co-venturers might become bankrupt or otherwise fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. additionally, our partners or co-venturers might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals, which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals. these investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions such as a sale, because neither we, nor the partner, co-tenant or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. consequently, actions by such partner, co-tenant or co-venturer might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. in addition, we may in specific circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners, co-tenants or co-venturers. as of december 31, 2011, our unconsolidated joint ventures owned 22 properties and we had an aggregate cost basis in these joint ventures totaling approximately $893.9 million. as of december 31, 2011, our share of unconsolidated joint venture debt, which is non-recourse to us, totaled approximately $1.8 billion. certain of our joint venture agreements contain terms in favor of our partners that could have an adverse effect on the value of our investments in the joint ventures. each of our joint venture agreements has been individually negotiated with our partner in the joint venture and, in some cases, we have agreed to terms that are more favorable to our partner in the joint venture than to us. for example, our partner may be entitled to a specified portion of the profits of the joint venture before we are entitled to any portion of such profits and our partner may have rights to buy our interest in the joint venture, to force us to buy the partner's interest in the joint venture or to compel the sale of the property owned by such joint venture. these rights may permit our partner in a particular joint venture to obtain a greater benefit from the value or profits of the joint venture than us, which could have an adverse effect on the value of our investment in the joint venture and on our financial condition and results of operations. we may also enter into similar arrangements in the future. we may incur costs to comply with environmental laws. we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws. these laws regulate our use, storage, disposal and management of hazardous substances and wastes and can impose liability on property owners or operators for the clean-up of certain hazardous substances released on a property and any associated damage to natural resources without regard to whether the release was legal or whether it was caused by the property owner or operator. the presence of hazardous substances on our properties may adversely affect occupancy and our ability to develop or sell or borrow against those properties. in addition to potential liability for clean-up costs, private plaintiffs may bring claims for personal injury, property damage or for similar reasons. various laws also impose liability for the clean-up of contamination at any facility (e.g., a landfill) to which we have sent hazardous substances for treatment or disposal, without regard to whether the materials were transported, treated and 17 table of contents disposed in accordance with law. being held responsible for such a clean-up could result in significant cost to us and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may incur significant costs complying with the americans with disabilities act and other regulatory and legal requirements. our properties may be subject to risks relating to current or future laws including laws benefiting disabled persons, and other state or local zoning, construction or other regulations. these laws may require significant property modifications in the future, which could result in fines being levied against us in the future. the occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse impact on our cash flows and ability to pay dividends to stockholders. under the americans with disabilities act, or ada, all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. additional federal, state and local laws also may require modifications to our properties, or restrict our ability to renovate our properties. we have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance. if one or more of our properties is not in compliance with the ada or other legislation, then we may be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance with the ada or similar state or local laws. we cannot predict the ultimate amount of the cost of compliance with ada or other legislation. if we incur substantial costs to comply with the ada and any other legislation, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and/or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders could be adversely affected. our charter documents, debt instruments and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us, which could discourage takeover attempts and prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium over the market price of our stock. provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws could inhibit changes in control. a change of control of our company could benefit stockholders by providing them with a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our stock. however, provisions contained in our articles of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent a change in control of our company. these provisions, discussed more fully below, are: staggered board of directors; ownership limitations; and the board of director's ability to issue additional common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval. our board of directors is staggered into three separate classes. our board of directors is divided into three classes. the terms of the class i, class ii and class iii directors expire in 2013, 2014 and 2012, respectively. our staggered board may deter a change in control because of the increased time period necessary for a third party to acquire control of the board. we have a stock ownership limit. to remain qualified as a reit for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of any taxable year. for this purpose, stock may be "owned" directly, as well as indirectly under certain constructive ownership rules, including, for example, rules that attribute stock held by one family member to another family member. in part, to avoid violating this rule regarding stock ownership limitations and maintain our reit qualification, our articles of incorporation prohibit ownership by any single stockholder of more than 9.0% in value or number of shares of our common stock. limitations on the ownership of preferred stock may also be imposed by us. our board of directors has the discretion to raise or waive this limitation on ownership for any stockholder if deemed to be in our best interest. to obtain a waiver, a stockholder must present the board and our tax counsel with evidence that ownership in excess of this limit will not affect our present or future reit status. 18 table of contents absent any exemption or waiver, stock acquired or held in excess of the limit on ownership will be transferred to a trust for the exclusive benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary, and the stockholder's rights to distributions and to vote would terminate. the stockholder would be entitled to receive, from the proceeds of any subsequent sale of the shares transferred to the charitable trust, the lesser of: the price paid for the stock or, if the owner did not pay for the stock, the market price of the stock on the date of the event causing the stock to be transferred to the charitable trust; and the amount realized from the sale. this limitation on ownership of stock could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. debt may not be assumable. we have approximately $1.7 billion in unsecured corporate debt as of december 31, 2011. certain of this debt in not assumable by a potential purchaser and may be subject to significant prepayment penalties. maryland takeover statutes may prevent a change of control of our company, which could depress our stock price. under maryland law, "business combinations" between a maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. these business combinations include a merger, consolidation, stock exchange or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. an interested stockholder is defined as: any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation's outstanding shares; or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock of the corporation. a person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if the board of directors approves in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. after the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by the board of directors of the corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least: 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation, voting together as a single group; and two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder. the business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer, including potential acquisitions that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. in addition, maryland law provides that "control shares" of a maryland corporation acquired in a "control share acquisition" will not have voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares of stock owned by the acquiror, by officers of the corporation or by directors who are employees of the corporation, under the maryland control share acquisition act. "control shares" means voting shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock owned by the acquiror or in respect of which the acquiror is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of voting power: (i) one-tenth or more but less than one-third; (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority; or (iii) a majority or more of all voting power. a "control share acquisition" means the 19 table of contents acquisition of ownership of, or the power to direct the exercise of voting power with respect to, issued and outstanding control shares, subject to certain exceptions. we have opted out of these provisions of the maryland general corporation law, or the mgcl, with respect to business combinations and control share acquisitions by resolution of our board of directors and a provision in our bylaws, respectively. however, in the future, our board of directors may reverse its decision by resolution and elect to opt in to the mgcl's business combination provisions, or amend our bylaws and elect to opt in to the mgcl's control share provisions. additionally, the mgcl permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses, some of which we do not have. such takeover defenses, if implemented, may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making us an acquisition proposal or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with an opportunity to realize a premium over the then-current market price. future issuances of common stock, preferred stock and convertible debt could dilute existing stockholders' interests. our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue additional shares of common stock, preferred stock and convertible equity or debt without stockholder approval. any such issuance could dilute our existing stockholders' interests. also, any future series of preferred stock may have voting provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company. changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. as with other publicly traded equity securities, the value of our common stock depends on various market conditions, which may change from time to time. in addition to the current economic environment and continued volatility in the securities and credit markets, the following market conditions may affect the value of our common stock: the general reputation of reits and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies; our financial performance; and general stock and bond market conditions. the market value of our common stock is based primarily upon the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash dividends. consequently, our common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share of common stock. if our future earnings or cash dividends are less than expected, the market price of our common stock could diminish. the trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. between january 1, 2011 and december 31, 2011, the closing sale price of our common stock on the new york stock exchange, or the nyse, ranged from $55.14 to $90.01 per share. our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as those described elsewhere in this "risk factors" section. additionally, the amount of our leverage may hinder the demand for our common stock, which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. market interest rates may have an effect on the value of our common stock. if market interest rates go up, prospective purchasers of shares of our common stock may expect a higher distribution rate on our common stock. higher market interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for us to distribute and, to the contrary, would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds 20 table of contents available for distribution. thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of our common stock to go down. limitations on our ability to sell or reduce the indebtedness on specific mortgaged properties could adversely affect the value of our common stock. we acquired the property located at 609 fifth avenue, new york, new york in june 2006 and have agreed not to take certain action before january 2014 that would adversely affect the tax positions of certain of the partners who held interests in this property prior to the acquisition. in connection with future acquisitions of interests in properties, we may agree to restrictions on our ability to sell or refinance the acquired properties. these limitations could have adverse consequences on our business and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we face potential conflicts of interest. there are potential conflicts of interest between us and mr. green. there is a potential conflict of interest relating to the disposition of certain property contributed to us by stephen l. green, and his family in our initial public offering. mr. green serves as the chairman of our board of directors and is an executive officer. as part of our formation, mr. green contributed appreciated property, with a net book value of $73.5 million, to our operating partnership in exchange for units of limited partnership interest in the operating partnership. he did not recognize any taxable gain as a result of the contribution. the operating partnership, however, took a tax basis in the contributed property equal to that of the contributing unitholder. the fair market value of the property contributed by him exceeded his tax basis by approximately $34.0 million at the time of contribution. the difference between fair market value and tax basis at the time of contribution represents a built-in gain. if we sell a property in a transaction in which a taxable gain is recognized, for tax purposes the built-in gain would be allocated solely to him and not to us. as a result, mr. green has a conflict of interest if the sale of a property, he contributed, is in our best interest but not his. there is a potential conflict of interest relating to the refinancing of indebtedness specifically allocated to mr. green. mr. green would recognize gain if he were to receive a distribution of cash from the operating partnership in an amount that exceeds his tax basis in his partnership units. his tax basis includes his share of debt, including mortgage indebtedness, owed by our operating partnership. if our operating partnership were to retire such debt, then he would experience a decrease in his share of liabilities, which, for tax purposes, would be treated as a distribution of cash to him. to the extent the deemed distribution of cash exceeded his tax basis, he would recognize gain. members of management may have a conflict of interest over whether to enforce terms of agreements with entities which senior management, directly or indirectly, has an affiliation. through alliance building services, or alliance, first quality maintenance, l.p., provides cleaning, extermination and related services, classic security llc provides security services, bright star couriers llc provides messenger services, and onyx restoration works provides restoration services with respect to certain properties owned by us. alliance is partially owned by gary green, a son of stephen l. green, the chairman of our board of directors. our company and our tenants accounted for approximately 25.5% of alliance's 2011 estimated total revenue. the contracts pursuant to which these services are provided are not the result of arm's length negotiations and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the terms and conditions are not less favorable than those which could be obtained from third parties providing comparable services. in addition, to the extent that we choose to enforce our rights under any of these agreements, we may determine to pursue available remedies, such as actions for damages or injunctive relief, less vigorously than we otherwise might because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with gary green. 21 table of contents members of management may have a conflict of interest over whether to enforce terms of senior management's employment and noncompetition agreements. stephen green, marc holliday, andrew mathias, andrew levine and james mead entered into employment and noncompetition agreements with us pursuant to which they have agreed not to actively engage in the acquisition, development or operation of office real estate in the new york city metropolitan area. for the most part, these restrictions apply to the executive both during his employment and for a period of time thereafter. each executive is also prohibited from otherwise disrupting or interfering with our business through the solicitation of our employees or clients or otherwise. to the extent that we choose to enforce our rights under any of these agreements, we may determine to pursue available remedies, such as actions for damages or injunctive relief, less vigorously than we otherwise might because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with the individual involved. additionally, the non-competition provisions of these agreements despite being limited in scope and duration, could be difficult to enforce, or may be subject to limited enforcement, should litigation arise over them in the future. mr. green also has interests in two properties in manhattan, which are exempt from the non-competition provisions of his employment and non-competition agreement. our failure to qualify as a reit would be costly. we believe we have operated in a manner to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes and intend to continue to so operate. many of the reit compliance requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. the determination that we are a reit requires an analysis of factual matters and circumstances. these matters, some of which are not totally within our control, can affect our qualification as a reit. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income must come from designated sources that are listed in the reit tax laws. we are also required to distribute to stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income excluding capital gains. the fact that we hold our assets through the operating partnership and its subsidiaries further complicates the application of the reit requirements. even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our reit status. furthermore, congress and the internal revenue service, which we refer to as the irs, might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified as a reit. if we fail to qualify as a reit, we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. also, unless the irs grants us relief under specific statutory provisions, we would remain disqualified as a reit for four years following the year in which we first failed to qualify. if we failed to qualify as a reit, we would have to pay significant income taxes and would therefore have less money available for investments or to pay dividends to stockholders. this would likely have a significant adverse effect on the value of our securities. in addition, the reit tax laws would no longer require us to make any distributions to stockholders. we may change the dividend policy for our common stock in the future. recent internal revenue service revenue procedures allowed us to satisfy the reit income distribution requirements with respect to our 2008 through 2011 taxable years by distributing up to 90% of any of our dividend distributions for any such year in shares of our common stock in lieu of paying the dividend entirely in cash, so long as we followed a process allowing our stockholders to elect cash or stock subject to a cap that we would impose on the maximum amount of cash that would be paid. we did not utilize this procedure for 2008, 2009, 2010 or 2011 and the internal revenue service has not renewed the procedure for later years. however, the procedure is grounded in provisions of the internal revenue code and treasury regulations and we reserve the right to pay a portion of our dividends with shares of our common stock in the future. in the event that we pay a portion of a dividend with shares of our common stock, taxable u.s. stockholders would be required to pay tax on the entire amount of the dividend, including the portion paid with shares of common stock, in which case such stockholders might have to pay the tax using cash from other sources. if a u.s. stockholder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. furthermore, with respect to non-u.s. stockholders, we may be required to withhold u.s. tax with respect to such dividend, 22 table of contents including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. in addition, if a significant number of our stockholders sell shares of our common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, such sales could put downward pressure on the market price of our common stock. our board of directors will continue to evaluate our dividend policy on a quarterly basis as it monitors the capital markets and the impact of the economy on our operations. the decision to authorize and pay dividends on our common stock in the future, as well as the timing, amount and composition of any such future dividends, will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors in light of conditions then existing, including the company's earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, debt maturities, the availability of capital, applicable reit and legal restrictions and general overall economic conditions and other factors. previously enacted tax legislation reduces tax rates for dividends paid by non-reit corporations. under certain previously enacted tax legislation, the maximum tax rate on dividends to individuals has generally been reduced to 15% (from january 1, 2003 through december 31, 2012). the reduction in rates on dividends is generally not applicable to dividends paid by a reit except in limited circumstances that we do not contemplate. although this legislation does not adversely affect the taxation of reits or dividends paid by reits, the favorable treatment of regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals to consider stock of non-reit corporations that pay dividends as relatively more attractive than stocks of reits. it is not possible to determine whether such a change in perceived relative value has occurred or what the effect, if any, this legislation has had or will have in the future on the market price of our stock. we are dependent on external sources of capital. because of distribution requirements imposed on us to qualify as a reit, it is not likely that we will be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisitions, from income from operations. we therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. in addition, we anticipate having to raise money in the public equity and debt markets with some regularity and our ability to do so will depend upon the general conditions prevailing in these markets. at any time conditions may exist which effectively prevent us, or reits in general, from accessing these markets. moreover, additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of our stockholders' interests, and additional debt financing may substantially increase our leverage. we face significant competition for tenants. the leasing of real estate is highly competitive. the principal means of competition are rent, location, services provided and the nature and condition of the facility to be leased. we directly compete with all owners and developers of similar space in the areas in which our properties are located. our commercial office properties are concentrated in highly developed areas of midtown manhattan and certain suburban central business districts, or cbds. manhattan is the largest office market in the united states. the number of competitive office properties in manhattan and cbds in which our suburban properties are located (which may be newer or better located than our properties) could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease office space at our properties, and on the effective rents we are able to charge. loss of our key personnel could harm our operations. we are dependent on the efforts of marc holliday, our chief executive officer, and andrew mathias, our president. these officers have employment agreements which expire in january 2013 and december 2013, respectively. a loss of the services of either of these individuals could adversely affect our operations. 23 table of contents our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures or cyber security attacks. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication failures and cyber security attacks, such as computer viruses or unauthorized access. any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. we may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. any compromise of our security could also result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, loss or misuse of the information and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. compliance with changing or new regulation applicable to corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses, affect our operations and affect our reputation. changing or new laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including sec regulations and nyse rules, can create uncertainty for public companies. these changed or new laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity. as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. we are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. if our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. as a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. in particular, our efforts to comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors' audit of that assessment have required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. in addition, it has become more difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. further, our directors, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. as a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified directors and executive officers, which could harm our business. forward-looking statements may prove inaccurate see item 7 "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations forward-looking information" for additional disclosure regarding forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk see item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market rate risk" for additional information regarding our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. the table below presents the principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of our debt obligations and debt and preferred equity investments and the related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates, including as-of-right extension options, as of december 31, 2011 (in thousands): long-term debt debt and preferred equity investments (1) date fixed rate average interest rate variable rate average interest rate amount weighted yield 2012 $ 153,062 5.92 % $ 18,804 2.71 % $ 160,098 5.77 % 2013 337,796 5.94 230,853 2.72 10,650 19.93 2014 308,834 5.97 437,520 2.77 440,001 9.91 2015 263,422 5.99 7,617 1.81 45,000 10.53 2016 613,511 5.99 567,693 1.81 217,876 8.64 thereafter 3,155,383 5.56 112,317 2.81 total $ 4,832,008 5.56 % $ 1,262,487 2.58 % $ 985,942 8.28 % fair value $ 5,192,000 $ 1,223,000 (1) our debt and preferred equity investments had an estimated fair value ranging between $838.1 million and $936.7 million at december 31, 2011. the table below presents the principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of our share of our joint venture debt obligations and the related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates as of december 31, 2011 (in thousands): long term debt date fixed rate average interest rate variable rate average interest rate 2012 $ 13,398 4.75 % $ 163,059 2.94 % 2013 3,001 4.75 90,681 2.50 2014 107,983 4.72 16,000 2.16 2015 97,568 4.59 4,908 2.00 2016 398,303 4.16 129,511 2.08 thereafter 724,304 2.78 75,799 2.03 total $ 1,344,557 4.61 % $ 479,958 2.56 % fair value $ 1,251,000 $ 463,000 the table below lists all of our derivative instruments, which are hedging variable rate debt, excluding joint ventures, and their related fair value as of december 31, 2011 (in thousands): asset hedged benchmark rate notional value strike rate effective date expiration date fair value interest rate cap mortgage libor 110,180 6.000 % 2/2011 2/2012 interest rate cap mortgage libor 139,672 5.000 % 1/2011 1/2012 interest rate swap revolving credit facility libor 30,000 2.295 % 7/2010 6/2016 (1,716 ) interest rate cap mortgage libor 280,000 6.000 % 11/2011 11/2012 currency hedge mortgage receivable gbp-usd 20,748 1.55185 9/2010 12/2012 (151 ) total consolidated hedges $ (1,867 ) in addition to these derivative instruments, some of our joint venture loan agreements require the joint venture to purchase interest rate caps on its debt. all such interest rate caps had no value at december 31, 2011. we had also hedged certain floating rate debt at a joint venture. these hedges represented an obligation of approximately $35.4 million at december 31, 2011. 64 table of contentsrisk factors declines in the demand for office space in new york city, and in particular midtown manhattan, as well as our suburban markets, including westchester county, connecticut, northern new jersey and long island, resulting from future weakness in the economic condition of such markets could adversely affect the value of our real estate portfolio and our results of operations and, consequently, our ability to service current debt and to pay dividends to stockholders. most of our commercial office properties, based on square footage, are located in midtown manhattan. as a result, our business is dependent on the condition of the new york city economy in general and the market for office space in midtown manhattan in particular. future weakness and uncertainty in the new york city economy could materially reduce the value of our real estate portfolio and our rental revenues, and thus adversely affect our cash flow and ability to service current debt and to pay dividends to stockholders. similarly, future weakness and uncertainty in our suburban markets could adversely affect our cash flow and ability to service current debt and to pay dividends to stockholders. we may be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases expire. when our tenants decide not to renew their leases upon their expiration, we may not be able to relet the space. even if tenants do renew or we can relet the space, the terms of renewal or reletting, taking into account among other things, the cost of tenant improvements and leasing commissions, may be less favorable than the terms in the expired leases. as of december 31, 2012, approximately 8.3 million and 2.0 million square feet, representing approximately 40.2% and 46.2% of the rentable square feet, were scheduled to expire by december 31, 2017 at our consolidated properties and unconsolidated joint venture properties, respectively, and as of december 31, 2012, these leases had annualized escalated rent totaling approximately $422.8 million and $90.6 million, respectively. we also have leases with termination options beyond 2017. if we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet the space at similar rates, our cash flow and ability to service debt and pay dividends to stockholders could be adversely affected. the expiration of long term leases or operating sublease interests could adversely affect our results of operations. our interests in 673 first avenue, 420 lexington avenue, 461 fifth avenue, 711 third avenue, 625 madison avenue, 1185 avenue of the americas and 1080 amsterdam avenue, all in manhattan, and 1055 washington avenue, stamford, connecticut, are through either long-term leasehold or operating sublease interests in the land and the improvements, rather than by ownership of fee interest in the land. we have the ability to acquire the fee position at 461 fifth avenue for a fixed price on a specific date. unless we can purchase a fee interest in the underlying land or extend the terms of these leases before their expiration, we will lose our right to operate these properties upon expiration of the leases, which would significantly adversely affect our results of operations. the average remaining term of these long-term leases as of december 31, 2012, including our unilateral extension rights on each of the properties, is approximately 72 years. pursuant to the leasehold arrangement, we, as tenant under the operating sublease, perform the functions traditionally performed by landlords with respect to our subtenants. we are responsible for not only collecting rent from our subtenants, but also maintaining the property and paying expenses relating to the property. our share of annualized cash rents of these properties at december 31, 2012 totaled approximately $257.4 million, or 22%, of our share of total portfolio annualized cash rent. our results of operations rely on major tenants and insolvency, bankruptcy or receivership of these or other tenants could adversely affect our results of operations. giving effect to leases in effect as of december 31, 2012 for consolidated properties and unconsolidated joint venture properties, as of that date, our five largest tenants, based on square footage leased, accounted for approximately 22.1% of our share of portfolio annualized cash rent, with three tenants, citigroup, inc., viacom international inc. and credit suisse securities (usa) llc accounting for approximately 6.4%, 6.9% and 6.0% of 10 table of contents our share of portfolio annualized cash rent, respectively. in addition, the financial services sector, which has been volatile in recent years, accounted for approximately 36% of our portfolio annualized cash rent as of december 31, 2012. this sector continues to experience turmoil. if current conditions in the industries in which our tenants are concentrated deteriorate, we may experience increases in past due accounts, defaults, lower occupancy and reduced effective rents. our business would be adversely affected if any of our major tenants became insolvent, declared bankruptcy, are put into receivership or otherwise refused to pay rent in a timely fashion or at all. adverse economic and geopolitical conditions in general and the northeastern commercial office markets in particular could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. our business may be affected by volatility in the financial and credit markets and other market or economic challenges experienced by the u.s. economy or real estate industry as a whole, such as those experienced as a result of the economic downturn that began in the second half of 2007, which lead to a nationwide decline in demand for office and retail space due to bankruptcies, downsizing, layoffs and cost cutting. future periods of economic weakness could result in reduced access to credit and/or wider credit spreads. economic uncertainty, including concern about the stability of the markets generally, may lead many lenders and institutional investors to reduce, and in some cases, cease to provide funding to borrowers, which could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition, and the liquidity and financial condition of our tenants. our business may also be adversely affected by local economic conditions, as substantially all of our revenues are derived from our properties located in the northeast, particularly in new york, northern new jersey and connecticut. because our portfolio consists primarily of commercial office buildings (as compared to a more diversified real estate portfolio) located principally in manhattan, if economic conditions deteriorate, then our results of operations, financial condition and ability to service current debt and to pay dividends to our stockholders may be adversely affected. specifically, our business may be affected by the following conditions: significant job losses in the financial and professional services industries which may decrease demand for our office space, causing market rental rates and property values to be negatively impacted; our ability to borrow on terms and conditions that we find acceptable may be limited, which could reduce our ability to pursue acquisition and development opportunities and refinance existing debt, reduce our returns from both our existing operations and our acquisition and development activities and increase our future interest expense; reduced values of our properties, which may limit our ability to dispose of assets at attractive prices or to obtain debt financing secured by our properties and may reduce the availability of unsecured loans; and reduced liquidity in debt markets and increased credit risk premiums for certain market participants, which may impair our ability to access capital. we may suffer adverse consequences if our revenues decline since our operating costs do not necessarily decline in proportion to our revenue. we earn a significant portion of our income from renting our properties. our operating costs, however, do not necessarily fluctuate in proportion to changes in our rental revenue. as a result, our costs will not necessarily decline even if our revenues do. similarly, our operating costs could increase while our revenues stay flat or decline. in either such event, we may be forced to borrow to cover our costs, we may incur losses or we may not have cash available to service our debt and to pay dividends to our stockholders. 11 table of contents we face risks associated with property acquisitions. we may acquire individual properties and portfolios of properties, including large portfolios that could significantly increase our size and alter our capital structure. our acquisition activities may be exposed to, and their success may be adversely affected by, the following risks: even if we enter into an acquisition agreement for a property, it is usually subject to customary conditions to closing; we may be unable to finance acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; acquired properties may fail to perform as we expected; our estimates of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping acquired properties may be inaccurate; we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for new properties; acquired properties may be located in new markets where we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, lack of business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures; and we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and therefore our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. as a result, if a liability were asserted against us arising from our ownership of those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. unknown liabilities with respect to properties acquired might include: claims by tenants, vendors or other persons arising from dealing with the former owners of the properties; liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties; and liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination. competition for acquisitions may reduce the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and increase the costs of those acquisitions. we plan to continue to acquire properties as we are presented with attractive opportunities. we may face competition for acquisition opportunities from other investors, particularly those investors who can incur more leverage, and this competition may adversely affect us by subjecting us to the following risks: an inability to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well-capitalized real estate investors, including publicly traded and privately held reits, private real estate funds, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, pension trusts, partnerships and individual investors; and an increase in the purchase price for such acquisition property, in the event we are able to acquire such desired property. we rely on six large properties for a significant portion of our revenue. six of our properties, 420 lexington avenue, 485 lexington avenue, one madison avenue, 1185 avenue of the americas, 1515 broadway and 388-390 greenwich street, accounted for approximately 37.1% of our portfolio annualized cash rent, which includes our share of joint venture annualized rent as of december 31, 2012. our 12 table of contents revenue and cash available for distribution to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected if any of these properties were materially damaged or destroyed. additionally, our revenue and cash available to service debt and for distribution to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected if tenants at these properties fail to timely make rental payments due to adverse financial conditions or otherwise, default under their leases or filing for bankruptcy. the continuing threat of terrorist attacks may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to generate cash flow. there may be a decrease in demand for space in new york city because it is considered at risk for future terrorist attacks, and this decrease may reduce our revenues from property rentals. in the aftermath of a terrorist attack, tenants in the new york metropolitan area may choose to relocate their business to less populated, lower-profile areas of the united states that those tenants believe are not as likely to be targets of future terrorist activity. this in turn could trigger a decrease in the demand for space in the new york metropolitan area, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease our properties on less favorable terms. as a result, the value of our properties and the level of our revenues could materially decline. a terrorist attack could cause insurance premiums to increase significantly. we maintain "all-risk" property and rental value coverage (including coverage regarding the perils of flood, earthquake and terrorism) within two property insurance portfolios and liability insurance. as of december 31, 2012, the first property portfolio maintains a blanket limit of $775.0 million per occurrence, including terrorism, for the majority of the new york city properties in our portfolio. the second portfolio maintains a limit of $750.0 million per occurrence, including terrorism, for some new york city properties and the majority of the suburban properties. both policies expire on december 31, 2013. each policy includes $100.0 million of flood coverage, with a lower sublimit for locations in high hazard flood zones. we maintain liability policies which cover all our properties and provide limits of $201.0 million per occurrence and in the aggregate per location. the liability policies expire on october 31, 2013. additional coverage may be purchased on a stand-alone basis for certain assets. in october 2006, we formed a wholly-owned taxable reit subsidiary, belmont insurance company, or belmont, to act as a captive insurance company and be one of the elements of our overall insurance program. belmont was formed in an effort to, among other reasons, stabilize to some extent the fluctuations of insurance market conditions. belmont is licensed in new york to write terrorism, nbcr (nuclear, biological, chemical, and radiological), general liability, environmental liability and d&amp;o coverage. terrorism: belmont acts as a direct property insurer with respect to a portion of our terrorism coverage for the new york city properties. belmont has a terrorism coverage limit of $650.0 million in a layer in excess of $100.0 million. in addition, belmont purchased reinsurance to reinsure the retained insurable risk not otherwise covered under terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization and extension act of 2007, or tripra, as detailed below. nbcr: belmont has acted as a direct insurer of nbcr and since december 31, 2011, has provided coverage up to $750 million on our entire property portfolio for certified acts of terrorism above a program trigger of $100.0 million. belmont is responsible for a small deductible and 15% of a loss, with the remaining 85% covered by the federal government. general liability: for the period commencing october 31, 2010, belmont insures a retention on the general liability insurance of $150,000 per occurrence and a $2.1 million annual aggregate stop loss limit. we have secured excess insurance to protect against catastrophic liability losses above the $150,000 retention. prior policy years carried a higher per occurrence deductible and/or higher aggregate stop loss. belmont has retained a third party administrator to manage all claims within the retention and we anticipate that direct management of liability claims will improve loss experience and ultimately lower the 13 table of contents cost of liability insurance in future years. in addition, we have an umbrella liability policy of $200.0 million per occurrence and in the aggregate on a per location basis. environmental liability: belmont insures a deductible of $975,000 per occurrence in excess of $25,000 on a $25.0 million per occurrence and $30.0 million aggregate environmental liability policy covering the entire portfolio. as long as we own belmont, we are responsible for its liquidity and capital resources, and the accounts of belmont are part of our consolidated financial statements. if we experience a loss and belmont is required to pay under its insurance policy, we would ultimately record the loss to the extent of belmont's required payment. therefore, insurance coverage provided by belmont should not be considered as the equivalent of third-party insurance, but rather as a modified form of self-insurance. the terrorism risk insurance act, or tria, which was enacted in november 2002, was renewed on december 31, 2007. congress extended tria, now called tripra (terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization and extension act of 2007) until december 31, 2014. the law extends the federal terrorism insurance program that requires insurance companies to offer terrorism coverage and provides for compensation for insured losses resulting from acts of certified terrorism, subject to the current program trigger of $100.0 million. there is no assurance that tripra will be extended. our debt instruments, consisting of mortgage loans secured by our properties (which are generally non-recourse to us), mezzanine loans, ground leases, our 2012 credit facility, senior unsecured notes and other corporate obligations, contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance. although we believe that we currently maintain sufficient insurance coverage to satisfy these obligations, there is no assurance that in the future we will be able to procure coverage at a reasonable cost. in such instances, there can be no assurance that the lenders or ground lessors under these instruments will not take the position that a total or partial exclusion from "all-risk" insurance coverage for losses due to terrorist acts is a breach of these debt and ground lease instruments allowing the lenders or ground lessors to declare an event of default and accelerate repayment of debt or recapture of ground lease positions. in addition, if lenders prevail in asserting that we are required to maintain full coverage for these risks, it could result in substantially higher insurance premiums. we monitor all properties that are subject to triple net leases to ensure that tenants are providing adequate coverage. certain joint ventures may be covered under policies separate from our policies, at coverage limits which we deem to be adequate. we continually monitor these policies. although we consider our insurance coverage to be appropriate, in the event of a major catastrophe, such as an act of terrorism, we may not have sufficient coverage to replace certain properties. we face possible risks associated with the physical effects of climate change. we cannot predict with certainty whether climate change is occurring and, if so, at what rate. however, the physical effects of climate change could have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations and business. for example, we own interests in commercial office properties in the new york metropolitan area, primarily in midtown manhattan. our investments in the new york metropolitan area also include investments in brooklyn, long island, westchester county, connecticut and northern new jersey. to the extent climate change causes changes in weather patterns, our markets could experience increases in storm intensity, such as those experienced in hurricane sandy in october 2012, and rising sea-levels. over time, these conditions could result in declining demand for office space in our buildings or the inability of us to operate the buildings at all. climate change may also have indirect effects on our business by increasing the cost of (or making unavailable) property insurance on terms we find acceptable, increasing the cost of energy and increasing the cost of snow removal at our properties. there can be no assurance that climate change will not have a material adverse effect on our properties, operations or business. 14 table of contents leasing office space to smaller and growth-oriented businesses could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. many of the tenants in our properties are smaller, growth-oriented businesses that may not have the financial strength of larger corporate tenants. smaller companies generally experience a higher rate of failure than large businesses. growth-oriented firms may also seek other office space as they develop. leasing office space to these companies could create a higher risk of tenant defaults, turnover and bankruptcies, which could adversely affect our distributable cash flow and results of operations. debt financing, financial covenants, degree of leverage, and increases in interest rates could adversely affect our economic performance. scheduled debt payments could adversely affect our results of operations. cash flow could be insufficient to pay dividends and meet the payments of principal and interest required under our current mortgages and other indebtedness, including our 2012 credit facility, senior unsecured notes, debentures and indebtedness outstanding at our joint venture properties. the total principal amount of our outstanding consolidated indebtedness was approximately $6.5 billion as of december 31, 2012, consisting of approximately $470.0 million under our 2012 credit facility, which is inclusive of our $400.0 million term loan, $1.3 billion under our senior unsecured notes, $100.0 million under our junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures and approximately $4.6 billion of non-recourse mortgages and loans payable on 22 of our properties and certain debt and preferred equity investments, and recourse loans on two of our investments. in addition, we could increase the amount of our outstanding indebtedness in the future, in part by borrowing under our 2012 credit facility, which had $1.1 billion undrawn capacity as of december 31, 2012. our 2012 credit facility in aggregate matures in march 2018, which includes two six-month extension options on the $1.2 billion revolving credit facility of this 2012 credit facility. as of december 31, 2012, the total principal amount of non-recourse indebtedness outstanding at the joint venture properties was approximately $5.1 billion, of which our proportionate share was approximately $1.9 billion. as of december 31, 2012, the total principal amount of recourse indebtedness outstanding at the joint venture properties was approximately $218.4 million. if we are unable to make payments under our 2012 credit facility, all amounts due and owing at such time shall accrue interest at a rate equal to 2% higher than the rate at which each draw was made. if we are unable to make payments under our senior unsecured notes, the principal and unpaid interest will become immediately payable. if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property, resulting in loss of income and asset value. foreclosure on mortgaged properties or an inability to make payments under our 2012 credit facility or our senior unsecured notes would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to refinance existing indebtedness, which may require substantial principal payments at maturity. in 2013, approximately $116.7 million of corporate indebtedness, $182.3 million of mortgage debt on our consolidated properties and $176.5 million which is our share of mortgage debt on our unconsolidated joint venture properties will mature. at the present time we intend to exercise extension options, repay or refinance the debt associated with our properties on or prior to their respective maturity dates. at the time of refinancing, prevailing interest rates or other factors, such as the possible reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans may result in higher interest rates. increased interest expense on the refinanced debt would adversely affect cash flow and our ability to service debt and pay dividends to stockholders. if any principal payments due at maturity cannot be repaid, refinanced or extended, our cash flow will not be sufficient in all years to repay all maturing debt. financial covenants could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. the mortgages and mezzanine loans on our properties generally contain customary negative covenants that limit our ability to further mortgage the properties, to enter into new leases without lender consent or materially modify existing leases, and to discontinue insurance coverage, among other things. in addition, our 2012 credit 15 table of contents facility and senior unsecured notes contain restrictions and requirements on our method of operations. our 2012 credit facility and our unsecured notes also require us to maintain designated ratios, including but not limited to, total debt-to-assets, debt service coverage, encumbered assets-to-assets and unencumbered assets-to-unsecured debt. these restrictions could adversely affect our results of operations, our ability to pay debt obligations and our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. rising interest rates could adversely affect our cash flow. advances under our 2012 credit facility and certain property-level mortgage debt bear interest at a variable rate. these consolidated variable rate borrowings totaled approximately $1.6 billion at december 31, 2012. in addition, we could increase the amount of our outstanding variable rate debt in the future, in part by borrowing under our 2012 credit facility, which consisted of a $1.2 billion revolving credit facility and $400.0 million term loan and had $1.1 billion available for draw as of december 31, 2012. borrowings under our revolving credit facility and term loan currently bore interest at the 30-day libor, plus spreads of 145 basis points and 165 basis points, respectively, at december 31, 2012. as of december 31, 2012, borrowings under our 2012 credit facility and junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures totaled $470.0 million and $100.0 million, respectively, and bore interest at 1.93% and 5.61%, respectively. we may incur indebtedness in the future that also bears interest at a variable rate or may be required to refinance our debt at higher rates. accordingly, increases in interest rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial conditions. at december 31, 2012, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates across each of our variable interest rate instruments would increase our annual interest costs by approximately $15.4 million and would increase our share of joint venture annual interest costs by approximately $8.5 million. accordingly, increases in interest rates could adversely affect our ability to continue to pay dividends to stockholders. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect results of operations. the interest rate hedge instruments we use to manage some of our exposure to interest rate volatility involve risk, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. in addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. no limitation on debt could adversely affect our cash flow. our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness we may incur. as of december 31, 2012, assuming the conversion of all outstanding units of the operating partnership into shares of our common stock, our combined debt-to-market capitalization ratio, including our share of joint venture debt of approximately $2.1 billion, was approximately 53.1%. our market capitalization is variable and does not necessarily reflect the fair market value of our assets at all times. we also consider factors other than market capitalization in making decisions regarding the incurrence of indebtedness, such as the purchase price of properties to be acquired with debt financing, the estimated market value of our properties upon refinancing and the ability of particular properties and our business as a whole to generate cash flow to cover expected debt service. any changes that increase our debt to market capitalization percentage could be viewed negatively by investors. as a result, our stock price could decrease. debt and preferred equity investments could cause us to incur expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we owned first mortgages, mezzanine loans, junior participations and preferred equity interests in 22 investments with an aggregate net book value of approximately $1.4 billion at december 31, 2012. such investments may or may not be recourse obligations of the borrower and are not insured or guaranteed by governmental agencies or otherwise. in the event of a default under these obligations, we may have to take possession of the collateral securing these interests. borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against such enforcement and/or bring claims for lender liability in response 16 table of contents to actions to enforce their obligations to us. relatively high loan-to-value ratios and declines in the value of the property may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our investment upon foreclosure or realization even if we make substantial improvements or repairs to the underlying real estate in order to maximize such property's investment potential. we maintain and regularly evaluate financial reserves to protect against potential future losses. our reserves reflect management's judgment of the probability and severity of losses and the value of the underlying collateral. we cannot be certain that our judgment will prove to be correct and that our reserves will be adequate over time to protect against future losses because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy or events adversely affecting specific properties, assets, tenants, borrowers, industries in which our tenants and borrowers operate or markets in which our tenants and borrowers or their properties are located. we recorded approximately $3.0 million in loan loss reserves and charge offs in 2012 on debt and preferred equity investments being held to maturity and $2.4 million in recoveries of loans previously reserved. if our reserves for credit losses prove inadequate, we could suffer losses which would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance, the market prices of our securities and our ability to pay dividends to stockholders. special servicing activities could result in liability to us. we provide special servicing activities on behalf of third parties. we have been rated by fitch and s&amp;p to provide such services. an intended or unintended breach of the servicing standards and/or our fiduciary duties to bondholders could result in material liability to us. joint investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority and reliance upon a co-venturer's financial condition. we co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures, co-tenancies or other structures, acquiring non-controlling interests in, or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of, a property, partnership, joint venture, co-tenancy or other entity. therefore, we will not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding such property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. investments in partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities may involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that our partners, co-tenants or co-venturers might become bankrupt or otherwise fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. additionally, our partners or co-venturers might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals, which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals. these investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions such as a sale, because neither we, nor the partner, co-tenant or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. consequently, actions by such partner, co-tenant or co-venturer might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. in addition, we may in specific circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners, co-tenants or co-venturers. as of december 31, 2012, our unconsolidated joint ventures owned 56 properties and we had an aggregate cost basis in these joint ventures totaling approximately $1.0 billion. as of december 31, 2012, our share of unconsolidated joint venture debt, which is non-recourse to us, totaled approximately $1.9 billion. as of december 31, 2012, our share of unconsolidated joint venture debt, which is recourse to us, totaled approximately $218.4 million. certain of our joint venture agreements contain terms in favor of our partners that could have an adverse effect on the value of our investments in the joint ventures. each of our joint venture agreements has been individually negotiated with our partner in the joint venture and, in some cases, we have agreed to terms that are more favorable to our partner in the joint venture than to us. for example, our partner may be entitled to a specified portion of the profits of the joint venture before we are entitled to any portion of such profits and our partner may have rights to buy our interest in the joint venture, to force us to buy the partner's interest in the joint venture or to compel the sale of the property owned by such joint venture. these rights may permit our partner in a particular joint venture to obtain a greater benefit from the value or profits of the joint venture than us, which could have an adverse effect on the value of our 17 table of contents investment in the joint venture and on our financial condition and results of operations. we may also enter into similar arrangements in the future. we may incur costs to comply with environmental laws. we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws. these laws regulate our use, storage, disposal and management of hazardous substances and wastes and can impose liability on property owners or operators for the clean-up of certain hazardous substances released on a property and any associated damage to natural resources without regard to whether the release was legal or whether it was caused by the property owner or operator. the presence of hazardous substances on our properties may adversely affect occupancy and our ability to develop or sell or borrow against those properties. in addition to potential liability for clean-up costs, private plaintiffs may bring claims for personal injury, property damage or for similar reasons. various laws also impose liability for the clean-up of contamination at any facility (e.g., a landfill) to which we have sent hazardous substances for treatment or disposal, without regard to whether the materials were transported, treated and disposed in accordance with law. being held responsible for such a clean-up could result in significant cost to us and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we may incur significant costs complying with the americans with disabilities act and other regulatory and legal requirements. our properties may be subject to risks relating to current or future laws including laws benefiting disabled persons, and other state or local zoning, construction or other regulations. these laws may require significant property modifications in the future, which could result in fines being levied against us in the future. the occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse impact on our cash flows and ability to pay dividends to stockholders. under the americans with disabilities act, or ada, all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. additional federal, state and local laws also may require modifications to our properties, or restrict our ability to renovate our properties. we have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance. if one or more of our properties is not in compliance with the ada or other legislation, then we may be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance with the ada or similar state or local laws. we cannot predict the ultimate amount of the cost of compliance with ada or other legislation. if we incur substantial costs to comply with the ada and any other legislation, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and/or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders could be adversely affected. our charter documents, debt instruments and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us, which could discourage takeover attempts and prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium over the market price of our stock. provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws could inhibit changes in control. a change of control of our company could benefit stockholders by providing them with a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our stock. however, provisions contained in our articles of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent a change in control of our company. these provisions, discussed more fully below, are: staggered board of directors; ownership limitations; and the board of director's ability to issue additional common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval. 18 our board of directors is staggered into three separate classes. our board of directors is divided into three classes. the terms of the class i, class ii and class iii directors expire in 2013, 2014 and 2015, respectively. our staggered board may deter a change in control because of the increased time period necessary for a third party to acquire control of the board. we have a stock ownership limit. to remain qualified as a reit for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of any taxable year. for this purpose, stock may be "owned" directly, as well as indirectly under certain constructive ownership rules, including, for example, rules that attribute stock held by one family member to another family member. in part to avoid violating this rule regarding stock ownership limitations and maintain our reit qualification, our articles of incorporation prohibit ownership by any single stockholder of more than 9.0% in value or number of shares of our common stock. limitations on the ownership of preferred stock may also be imposed by us. our board of directors has the discretion to raise or waive this limitation on ownership for any stockholder if deemed to be in our best interest. to obtain a waiver, a stockholder must present the board and our tax counsel with evidence that ownership in excess of this limit will not affect our present or future reit status. absent any exemption or waiver, stock acquired or held in excess of the limit on ownership will be transferred to a trust for the exclusive benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary, and the stockholder's rights to distributions and to vote would terminate. the stockholder would be entitled to receive, from the proceeds of any subsequent sale of the shares transferred to the charitable trust, the lesser of: the price paid for the stock or, if the owner did not pay for the stock, the market price of the stock on the date of the event causing the stock to be transferred to the charitable trust; and the amount realized from the sale. this limitation on ownership of stock could delay or prevent a change in control of our company. debt may not be assumable. we had approximately $6.5 billion in consolidated debt as of december 31, 2012. certain of this debt in not assumable by a potential purchaser and may be subject to significant prepayment penalties. maryland takeover statutes may prevent a change of control of our company, which could depress our stock price. under maryland law, "business combinations" between a maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. these business combinations include a merger, consolidation, stock exchange or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. an interested stockholder is defined as: any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation's outstanding shares; or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock of the corporation. a person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if the board of directors approves in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. after the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by the board of directors of the corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least: 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation, voting together as a single group; and 19 two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder. the business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer, including potential acquisitions that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. in addition, maryland law provides that "control shares" of a maryland corporation acquired in a "control share acquisition" will not have voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares of stock owned by the acquiror, by officers of the corporation or by directors who are employees of the corporation, under the maryland control share acquisition act. "control shares" means voting shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock owned by the acquiror or in respect of which the acquiror is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of voting power: (i) one-tenth or more but less than one-third; (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority; or (iii) a majority or more of all voting power. a "control share acquisition" means the acquisition of ownership of, or the power to direct the exercise of voting power with respect to, issued and outstanding control shares, subject to certain exceptions. we have opted out of these provisions of the maryland general corporation law, or the mgcl, with respect to business combinations and control share acquisitions by resolution of our board of directors and a provision in our bylaws, respectively. however, in the future, our board of directors may reverse its decision by resolution and elect to opt in to the mgcl's business combination provisions, or amend our bylaws and elect to opt in to the mgcl's control share provisions. additionally, the mgcl permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses, some of which we do not have. such takeover defenses, if implemented, may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making us an acquisition proposal or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control under circumstances that otherwise could provide our stockholders with an opportunity to realize a premium over the then-current market price. future issuances of common stock, preferred stock and convertible debt could dilute existing stockholders' interests. our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue additional shares of common stock, preferred stock and convertible equity or debt without stockholder approval. any such issuance could dilute our existing stockholders' interests. also, any future series of preferred stock may have voting provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control of our company. changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. as with other publicly traded equity securities, the value of our common stock depends on various market conditions, which may change from time to time. in addition to the current economic environment and continued volatility in the securities and credit markets, the following market conditions may affect the value of our common stock: the general reputation of reits and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies; our financial performance; and general stock and bond market conditions. the market value of our common stock is based primarily upon the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash dividends. consequently, our common stock may 20 trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share of common stock. if our future earnings or cash dividends are less than expected, the market price of our common stock could diminish. the trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations. between january 1, 2012 and december 31, 2012, the closing sale price of our common stock on the new york stock exchange, or the nyse, ranged from $68.16 to $85.14 per share. our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as those described elsewhere in this "risk factors" section. additionally, the amount of our leverage may hinder the demand for our common stock, which could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. market interest rates may have an effect on the value of our common stock. if market interest rates go up, prospective purchasers of shares of our common stock may expect a higher distribution rate on our common stock. higher market interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for us to distribute and, to the contrary, would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of our common stock to go down. limitations on our ability to sell or reduce the indebtedness on specific mortgaged properties could adversely affect the value of our common stock. we acquired the property located at 609 fifth avenue, new york, new york in june 2006 and have agreed not to take certain action before january 2014 that would adversely affect the tax positions of certain of the partners who held interests in this property prior to the acquisition. we acquired the properties located at 752 madison avenue, 762 madison avenue and 400 east 58 th street new york, new york in january 2012 and have agreed not to take certain action before january 2019 that would adversely affect the tax positions of certain of the partners who held interests in these properties prior to the acquisition. in connection with future acquisitions of interests in properties, we may agree to restrictions on our ability to sell or refinance the acquired properties. these limitations could have adverse consequences on our business and result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we face potential conflicts of interest. there are potential conflicts of interest between us and mr. green. there is a potential conflict of interest relating to the disposition of certain property contributed to us by stephen l. green, and his family in our initial public offering. mr. green serves as the chairman of our board of directors and is an executive officer. as part of our formation, mr. green contributed appreciated property, with a net book value of $73.5 million, to the operating partnership in exchange for units of limited partnership interest in the operating partnership. he did not recognize any taxable gain as a result of the contribution. the operating partnership, however, took a tax basis in the contributed property equal to that of the contributing unitholder. the fair market value of the property contributed by him at our formation exceeded his tax basis. the difference between fair market value and tax basis at the time of contribution represents a built-in gain which totaled $5.1 million at december 31, 2012. if we sell a property in a transaction in which a taxable gain is recognized, for tax purposes the built-in gain would be allocated solely to him and not to us. as a result, mr. green has a conflict of interest if the sale of a property, he contributed, is in our best interest but not his. there is a potential conflict of interest relating to the refinancing of indebtedness specifically allocated to mr. green. mr. green would recognize gain if he were to receive a distribution of cash from the operating partnership in an amount that exceeds his tax basis in his partnership units. his tax basis includes his share of debt, including mortgage indebtedness, owed by the operating partnership. if the operating partnership were to 21 retire such debt, then he would experience a decrease in his share of liabilities, which, for tax purposes, would be treated as a distribution of cash to him. to the extent the deemed distribution of cash exceeded his tax basis, he would recognize gain. members of management may have a conflict of interest over whether to enforce terms of agreements with entities which mr. green, directly or indirectly, has an affiliation. through alliance building services, or alliance, first quality maintenance, l.p., or first quality, provides cleaning, extermination and related services, classic security llc provides security services, bright star couriers llc provides messenger services, and onyx restoration works provides restoration services with respect to certain properties owned by us. alliance is partially owned by gary green, a son of stephen l. green, the chairman of our board of directors. in addition, first quality has the non-exclusive opportunity to provide cleaning and related services to individual tenants at our properties on a basis separately negotiated with any tenant seeking such additional services. our company and our tenants accounted for approximately 28.7% of alliance's 2012 estimated total revenue. the contracts pursuant to which these services are provided are not the result of arm's length negotiations and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the terms and conditions are not less favorable than those which could be obtained from third parties providing comparable services. in addition, to the extent that we choose to enforce our rights under any of these agreements, we may determine to pursue available remedies, such as actions for damages or injunctive relief, less vigorously than we otherwise might because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with gary green. members of management may have a conflict of interest over whether to enforce terms of senior management's employment and noncompetition agreements. stephen green, marc holliday, andrew mathias, andrew levine and james mead entered into employment and noncompetition agreements with us pursuant to which they have agreed not to actively engage in the acquisition, development or operation of office real estate in the new york city metropolitan area. for the most part, these restrictions apply to the executive both during his employment and for a period of time thereafter. each executive is also prohibited from otherwise disrupting or interfering with our business through the solicitation of our employees or clients or otherwise. to the extent that we choose to enforce our rights under any of these agreements, we may determine to pursue available remedies, such as actions for damages or injunctive relief, less vigorously than we otherwise might because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with the individual involved. additionally, the non-competition provisions of these agreements despite being limited in scope and duration, could be difficult to enforce, or may be subject to limited enforcement, should litigation arise over them in the future. mr. green also has interests in two properties in manhattan, which are exempt from the non-competition provisions of his employment and non-competition agreement. our failure to qualify as a reit would be costly. we believe we have operated in a manner to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes and intend to continue to so operate. many of the reit compliance requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. the determination that we are a reit requires an analysis of factual matters and circumstances. these matters, some of which are not totally within our control, can affect our qualification as a reit. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income must come from designated sources that are listed in the reit tax laws. we are also required to distribute to stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income excluding capital gains. the fact that we hold our assets through the operating partnership and its subsidiaries further complicates the application of the reit requirements. even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our reit status. furthermore, congress and the internal revenue service, or the irs, might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified as a reit. if we fail to qualify as a reit, we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. also, unless the irs grants us relief under specific statutory provisions, we would remain disqualified as a reit for 22 four years following the year in which we first failed to qualify. if we failed to qualify as a reit, we would have to pay significant income taxes and would therefore have less money available for investments or to pay dividends to stockholders. this would likely have a significant adverse effect on the value of our securities. in addition, the reit tax laws would no longer require us to make any distributions to stockholders. we may change the dividend policy for our common stock in the future. recent internal revenue service revenue procedures allowed us to satisfy the reit income distribution requirements with respect to our 2008 through 2011 taxable years by distributing up to 90% of any of our dividend distributions for any such year in shares of our common stock in lieu of paying the dividend entirely in cash, so long as we followed a process allowing our stockholders to elect cash or stock subject to a cap that we would impose on the maximum amount of cash that would be paid. we did not utilize this procedure for 2008, 2009, 2010 or 2011 and the internal revenue service has not renewed the procedure for later years. however, we obtained a favorable ruling from the irs pursuant to which we may pay distributions partly in cash and partly in shares of our common stock with respect to 2012 and 2013, so long as we follow procedures set forth in the ruling. we paid all our 2012 dividends entirely in the form of cash. however, we may pay a portion of 2013 dividends on our common stock with shares of our common stock. if we pay such a dividend, taxable u.s. stockholders would be required to pay tax on the entire amount of the dividend, including the portion paid with shares of common stock, in which case such stockholders might have to pay the tax using cash from other sources. if a u.s. stockholder sells the stock it receives as a dividend in order to pay this tax, the sales proceeds may be less than the amount included in income with respect to the dividend, depending on the market price of our stock at the time of the sale. furthermore, with respect to non-u.s. stockholders, we may be required to withhold u.s. tax with respect to such dividend, including in respect of all or a portion of such dividend that is payable in stock. in addition, if a significant number of our stockholders sell shares of our common stock in order to pay taxes owed on dividends, such sales could put downward pressure on the market price of our common stock. our board of directors will continue to evaluate our dividend policy on a quarterly basis as it monitors the capital markets and the impact of the economy on our operations. the decision to authorize and pay dividends on our common stock in the future, as well as the timing, amount and composition of any such future dividends, will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors in light of conditions then existing, including the company's earnings, financial condition, capital requirements, debt maturities, the availability of capital, applicable reit and legal restrictions and general overall economic conditions and other factors. we are dependent on external sources of capital. because of distribution requirements imposed on us to qualify as a reit, it is not likely that we will be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisitions, from income from operations. we therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. in addition, we anticipate having to raise money in the public equity and debt markets with some regularity and our ability to do so will depend upon the general conditions prevailing in these markets. at any time conditions may exist which effectively prevent us, or reits in general, from accessing these markets. moreover, additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of our stockholders' interests, and additional debt financing may substantially increase our leverage. we face significant competition for tenants. the leasing of real estate is highly competitive. the principal means of competition are rent, location, services provided and the nature and condition of the facility to be leased. we directly compete with all owners and developers of similar space in the areas in which our properties are located. our commercial office properties are concentrated in highly developed areas of midtown manhattan and certain suburban central business districts, or cbds. manhattan is the largest office market in the united states. the number of competitive office properties in manhattan and cbds in which our suburban properties are 23 located (which may be newer or better located than our properties) could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease office space at our properties, and on the effective rents we are able to charge. loss of our key personnel could harm our operations. we are dependent on the efforts of marc holliday, our chief executive officer, and andrew mathias, our president. these officers have employment agreements which expire in january 2014 and december 2013, respectively. a loss of the services of either of these individuals could adversely affect our operations. our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures or cyber security attacks. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war, telecommunication failures and cyber security attacks, such as computer viruses or unauthorized access. any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. we may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. any compromise of our security could also result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, loss or misuse of the information and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. compliance with changing or new regulation applicable to corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses, affect our operations and affect our reputation. changing or new laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including sec regulations and nyse rules, can create uncertainty for public companies. these changed or new laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity. as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. we are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. if our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. as a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. in particular, our efforts to comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors' audit of that assessment have required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. further, our directors, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. as a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified directors and executive officers, which could harm our business. forward-looking statements may prove inaccurate see item 7 "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations forward-looking information" for additional disclosure regarding forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk see item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market rate risk" for additional information regarding our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. the table below presents the principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of our debt obligations and debt and preferred equity investments and the related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates, including as-of-right extension options, as of december 31, 2012 (in thousands): long-term debt debt and preferred equity investments (1) date fixed rate average interest rate variable rate average interest rate amount weighted yield 2013 $ 215,437 5.76 % $ 133,067 2.89 % $ 229,593 11.20 % 2014 257,856 5.78 16,829 2.86 591,189 10.06 2015 268,261 5.78 17,093 2.85 138,968 9.22 2016 569,582 5.75 257,636 2.86 268,149 9.25 2017 1,446,888 5.72 10,904 2.95 125,804 8.88 thereafter 2,164,701 5.18 1,162,166 2.99 3,500 7.09 total $ 4,922,725 5.44 % $ 1,597,695 2.90 % $ 1,357,203 9.89 % fair value $ 5,334,244 $ 1,577,494 (1) our debt and preferred equity investments had an estimated fair value ranging between $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion at december 31, 2012. the table below presents the principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of our share of our joint venture debt obligations and the related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates as of december 31, 2012 (in thousands): long term debt date fixed rate average interest rate variable rate average interest rate 2013 $ 19,025 5.27 % $ 157,486 3.23 % 2014 107,983 5.24 201,108 3.12 2015 3,068 5.17 33,389 2.70 2016 398,830 4.95 129,448 2.42 2017 664,580 4.44 269,054 2.33 thereafter 64,901 7.47 86,491 2.80 total $ 1,258,387 5.46 % $ 876,976 2.92 % fair value $ 1,195,179 $ 836,294 the table below lists all of our derivative instruments, which are hedging variable rate debt, excluding joint ventures, and their related fair value as of december 31, 2012 (in thousands): asset hedged benchmark rate notional value strike rate effective date expiration date fair value interest rate cap mortgage libor 775,000 3.650 % 4/2012 4/2013 interest rate cap mortgage libor 475,000 6.000 % 3/2012 3/2013 interest rate cap mortgage libor 271,912 6.000 % 11/2012 11/2013 interest rate swap revolving credit facility libor 30,000 2.295 % 7/2010 6/2016 (1,881 ) interest rate swap mortgage libor 8,500 0.740 % 2/2012 2/2015 (78 ) total consolidated hedges $ (1,959 ) in addition to these derivative instruments, some of our joint venture loan agreements require the joint venture to purchase interest rate caps on its debt. all such interest rate caps had no value at december 31, 2012. we had also hedged certain floating rate debt at a joint venture. these hedges represented an obligation of approximately $33.2 million at december 31, 2012. 66 table of contentsrisk factors declines in the demand for office space in new york city, and in particular, in midtown manhattan, resulting from general economic conditions could adversely affect the value of our real estate portfolio and our results of operations and, consequently, our ability to service current debt and to pay dividends to stockholders. most of our office properties are located in midtown manhattan. as a result, our business is dependent on the condition of the new york city economy in general and the market for office space in midtown manhattan, in particular. weakness in the new york city economy could materially reduce the value of our real estate portfolio and our revenues, and thus adversely affect our ability to service current debt and to pay dividends to stockholders. we may be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases expire . when our tenants decide not to renew their leases upon their expiration, we may not be able to relet the space. even if tenants do renew or we can relet the space, the terms of renewal or reletting, including the cost of required renovations, may be less favorable than current lease terms. over the next five years, through the end of 2010, leases will expire on approximately 49.6% and 39.4% of the rentable square feet at our wholly-owned and joint venture properties, respectively. as of december 31, 2005, approximately 4.6 million and 3.3 million square feet are scheduled to expire by december 31, 2010 at our wholly-owned and joint venture properties, respectively, and these leases currently have annualized escalated rental income totaling $179.4 million and $155.2 million, respectively. if we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet this space at similar rates, our cash flow and ability to service debt and pay dividends to stockholders would be adversely affected. the expiration of long term leases or operating sublease interests could adversely affect our results of operations . our interest in six of our commercial office properties is through either long-term leasehold or operating sublease interests in the land and the improvements, rather than by a fee interest in the land. unless we can purchase a fee interest in the underlying land or extend the terms of these leases before their expiration, we will lose our right to operate these properties and our interest in the improvements upon expiration of the leases, which would significantly adversely affect our results of operations. these properties are 673 first avenue, 420 lexington avenue, 1140 avenue of the americas, 461 fifth avenue, 711 third avenue and 625 madison avenue. the average remaining term of these long-term leases, including our unilateral extension rights on six of the properties, is 44 years. 7 pursuant to the operating sublease arrangements, we, as tenant under the operating sublease, perform the functions traditionally performed by landlords with respect to our subtenants. we are responsible for not only collecting rent from our subtenants, but also maintaining the property and paying expenses relating to the property. the annualized escalated rents of these properties at december 31, 2005 totaled $138.4 million, or 39%, of our total annualized revenue associated with wholly-owned properties. reliance on major tenants and insolvency or bankruptcy of these and other tenants could adversely affect our results of operations. giving effect to leases in effect as of december 31, 2005 for wholly-owned and joint venture properties as of that date, our five largest tenants, based on square footage leased, accounted for approximately 26.1% of our share of portfolio annualized rent, and other than three tenants, viacom international inc., teachers insurance annuity society, and credit suisse securities (usa), llc, who accounted for 8.5%, 6.4% and 5.4% of our share of portfolio annualized rent, respectively, no tenant accounted for more than 3.2% of that total. our business would be adversely affected if any of these tenants or any other tenants became insolvent, declared bankruptcy or otherwise refused to pay rent in a timely fashion or at all. we may suffer adverse consequences if our revenues decline since our operating costs do not necessarily decline in proportion to our revenue. we earn a significant portion of our income from renting our properties. our operating costs, however, do not necessarily fluctuate in relation to changes in our rental revenue. this means that our costs will not necessarily decline even if our revenues do. our operating costs could also increase while our revenues do not. if our operating costs increase but our rental revenues do not, we may be forced to borrow to cover our costs, we may incur losses and we may not have cash available for distributions to our stockholders. we face risks associated with property acquisitions. since our initial public offering, we have made large acquisitions of properties and portfolios of properties. we intend to continue to acquire properties and portfolios of properties, including large portfolios that could continue to significantly increase our size and alter our capital structure. our acquisition activities and their success may be exposed to the following risks: we may be unable to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well capitalized real estate investors, including publicly traded reits, institutional investment funds and private investors or at all; even if we enter into an acquisition agreement for a property, it is usually subject to customary conditions to closing, including completion of due diligence investigations to our satisfaction; even if we are able to acquire a desired property, competition from other real estate investors may significantly increase the purchase price; we may be unable to finance acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; acquired properties may fail to perform as we expected; our estimates of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping acquired properties may be inaccurate; acquired properties may be located in new markets where we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, lack of business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures; and we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and as a result our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. as a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. unknown liabilities with respect to properties acquired might include: liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination; claims by tenants, vendors or other persons dealing with the former owners of the properties; liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. we rely on three large properties for a significant portion of our revenue. as of december 31, 2005, three of our properties, 420 lexington avenue, 1221 avenue of the americas and 1515 broadway, accounted for over 30% of our portfolio annualized rent, including our share of joint venture annualized rent, and 1221 avenue of the americas alone accounted for approximately 11% of our portfolio annualized rent, including our share of joint venture annualized rent. our revenue and cash available for distribution to our portfolio stockholders would be materially adversely affected if the groundlease for the 420 lexington avenue property were terminated for any reason or if one or all of these properties were materially damaged or destroyed. additionally, our revenue and cash available for distribution to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected if our tenants at these properties experienced a downturn in their business which may weaken their financial condition and 8 result in their failure to timely make rental payments, defaulting under their leases or filing for bankruptcy. the continuing threat of terrorist attacks may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to generate cash flow. there may be a decrease in demand for space in new york city because it is considered at risk for future terrorist attacks, and this decrease may reduce our revenues from property rentals. in the aftermath of a terrorist attack, tenants in the new york city area may choose to relocate their business to less populated, lower-profile areas of the united states that are not as likely to be targets of future terrorist activity. this in turn would trigger a decrease in the demand for space in the new york city area, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease our properties on less favorable terms. as a result, the value of our properties and the level of our revenues could materially decline. a terrorist attack could cause insurance premiums to increase significantly. the real estate industry witnessed a sharp rise in property insurance costs after the terrorist attacks on september 11, 2001. while there was some stabilizing of these costs, primarily as a result of the terrorism risk insurance act, or tria, enacted in november 2002, that required insurance companies to provide certain forms of terrorism coverage while providing a financial backstop in the event of a non-domestic terrorist attack, it was unclear whether congress would extend or modify tria, which was set to expire on january 1, 2006. accordingly, there could be disruption/repricing to the reduced cost. on january 1, 2006, congress extended tria, now called triea (terrorism risk insurance extension act) until 2007. our debt instruments, consisting of mortgage loans secured by our properties (which are generally non-recourse to us), mezzanine loans, ground leases and our unsecured revolving credit facility and unsecured term loans, contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance. there can be no assurance that the lenders or ground lessors under these instruments will not take the position that a total or partial exclusion from all risk insurance coverage for losses due to terrorist acts is a breach of these debt and ground lease instruments that allows the lenders or ground lessors to declare an event of default and accelerate repayment of debt or recapture of ground lease positions. in addition, if lenders insist on full coverage for these risks, it could result in substantially higher insurance premiums . we carry comprehensive all-risk (including fire, flood, extended coverage and rental loss insurance) and liability insurance with respect to our property portfolio. the property coverage has a blanket limit of $600 million per occurrence for all the properties in our portfolio with a sublimit of $450 million for terrorism. the primary property policy expires in july 2007 and all other policies expire in october 2006. we have a minority interest in the property at 1221 avenue of the americas, where we participate with the rockefeller group inc., which carries a blanket policy providing $1.0 billion of all-risk property insurance, including terrorism and in the bellemead portfolio in nj, where we participate with gale properties, which carries a blanket policy providing $200 million of all-risk property insurance including terrorism. although we consider our insurance coverage appropriate, in the event of a major catastrophe, such as resulting from an act of terrorism, we may not have sufficient coverage to replace a significant property. in addition, our policies do not cover properties that we may acquire in the future and insurance will need to be obtained if added to our portfolio prior to october 2006. our dependence on smaller and growth-oriented businesses to rent our office space could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. many of the tenants in our properties are smaller, growth-oriented businesses that may not have the financial strength of larger corporate tenants. smaller companies generally experience a higher rate of failure than large businesses. growth-oriented firms may also seek other office space, including class a space, as they develop. dependence on these companies could create a higher risk of tenant defaults, turnover and bankruptcies, which could adversely affect our distributable cash flow and results of operations. debt financing, financial covenants, degree of leverage, and increases in interest rates could adversely affect our economic performance. scheduled debt payments could adversely affect our results of operations. the total principal amount of our outstanding consolidated indebtedness was $1.5 billion as of december 31, 2005, $32.0 million under our 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility, $325.0 million under our unsecured term loan, $200.0 million under our secured term loan, $100.0 million under our junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures and $885.3 million of non-recourse mortgage loans on twelve of our properties. cash flow could be insufficient to pay distributions at expected levels and meet the payments of principal and interest required under our current mortgage indebtedness, credit facilities and term loans. our 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility matures in september 2008. our unsecured term loan matures in august 2009. our secured term loan matures in may 2010. as of december 31, 2005, the total principal amount of non-recourse indebtedness outstanding at the joint venture properties was $2.3 billion, of which our proportionate share was $1.0 billion. 9 if we are unable to make payments under our unsecured credit facility and unsecured term loan, all amounts due and owing at such time shall accrue interest at a rate equal to 4% higher than the rate at which each such loan was made. if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property, resulting in loss of income and asset value. foreclosure on mortgaged properties or an inability to make scheduled payments under our secured and unsecured term loans and unsecured credit facility would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to refinance existing indebtedness, which in all cases requires substantial principal payments at maturity. in 2006, no debt on our wholly-owned buildings, and one loan on our joint venture properties will mature. at the present time we intend to exercise extension options or refinance the debt associated with our properties on or prior to their respective maturity dates. if any principal payments due at maturity cannot be refinanced, extended or paid with proceeds of other capital transactions, such as new equity capital, our cash flow will not be sufficient in all years to repay all maturing debt. at the time of refinancing, prevailing interest rates or other factors, such as the possible reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans, may result in higher interest rates. increased interest expense on the refinanced debt would adversely affect cash flow and our ability to service debt and make distributions to stockholders. financial covenants could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business . the mortgages on our properties contain customary negative covenants that limit our ability to further mortgage the property, to enter into new leases or materially modify existing leases, and to discontinue insurance coverage. in addition, our 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility contain customary restrictions and requirements on our method of operations. our 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility and unsecured term loan also require us to maintain designated ratios of total debt-to-assets, debt service coverage and unencumbered assets-to-unsecured debt. restrictions on our ability to conduct business could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. rising interest rates could adversely affect our cash flow. advances under our 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility and unsecured term loan and certain property-level mortgage debt bear interest at a variable rate. these variable rate borrowings totaled $287.1 million at december 31, 2005. borrowings under our 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility bear interest at a spread equal to the 30-day libor, plus 95 basis points. borrowings under our unsecured term loan and secured term loan bear interest at spreads equal to the 30-day libor plus 125 basis points, respectively. as of december 31, 2005 borrowings under the 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility and secured and unsecured term loans and junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures totaled $32.0 million, $200.0 million, $325.0 million and $100.0 million, respectively, and bore interest at 4.90%, 4.37%, 4.64%, and 5.61%, respectively. we may incur indebtedness in the future that also bears interest at a variable rate or may be required to refinance our debt at higher rates. accordingly, increases in interest rates above that which we anticipated based upon historical trends could adversely affect our ability to continue to make distributions to stockholders. at december 31, 2005, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates along the entire interest rate curve would increase our annual interest costs by approximately $2.7 million and would increase our share of joint venture annual interest costs by approximately $6.0 million. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect results of operations. the interest rate hedge instruments we use to manage some of our exposure to interest rate volatility involve risk, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. in addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. our policy of no limitation on debt could adversely affect our cash flow . our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness we may incur. as of december 31, 2005, assuming the conversion of all outstanding units of the operating partnership into shares of our common stock, our combined debt-to-market capitalization ratio, including our share of joint venture debt of $1.0 billion, was approximately 41.2%. however, our policy is to incur debt only if upon a conversion our consolidated debt to market capitalization ratio would be 60.0% or less. our board of directors can alter or eliminate this policy and would do so if our board of directors determines that this action is in the best interests of our business. if this policy is changed and we become more highly leveraged, an increase in debt service could adversely affect cash available for distribution to stockholders and could increase the risk of default on our indebtedness. in addition, any change that increases our debt to market capitalization percentage could be viewed negatively by investors. as a result, our share price could decrease. we have established our debt policy relative to the total market capitalization of our business rather than relative to the book value of our assets. we use total market capitalization because we believe that the book value of our assets, which to a large extent is the depreciated original cost of our properties, and our primary tangible assets, does not accurately reflect our ability to borrow and to meet debt service requirements. our market capitalization, however, is more variable than book value, and does not necessarily reflect the fair market value of our assets at all times. we also will consider factors other than market capitalization in making decisions regarding the incurrence of indebtedness, such as the purchase price of properties to be acquired with debt financing, the estimated market value of our properties upon refinancing and the ability of particular properties and our business as a whole to generate cash flow to cover expected debt service. 10 structured finance investments could cause expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we owned mezzanine loans, junior participations and preferred equity interests in eighteen properties with an aggregate book value of $400.1 million at december 31, 2005. to the extent we invest in mezzanine loans, junior participations and preferred equity, such investments may or may not be recourse obligations of the borrower and are not insured or guaranteed by governmental agencies or otherwise. in the event of a default under these obligations, we may have to realize upon our collateral and thereafter make substantial improvements or repairs to the underlying real estate in order to maximize the property investment potential. borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against such enforcement and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce their obligation to us. relatively high loan-to-value ratios and declines in the value of the property may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our investment upon foreclosure. joint investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority and reliance upon a co-venturer financial condition. we co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures, co-tenancies or other entities, acquiring non-controlling interests in, or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of, a property, partnership, joint venture, co-tenancy or other entity. therefore, we will not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding that property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. investments in partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities may involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that our partners, co-tenants or co-venturers might become bankrupt or otherwise fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. additionally, our partners or co-venturers might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals, which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals. these investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions such as a sale, because neither we nor the partner, co-tenant or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. consequently, actions by such partner, co-tenant or co-venturer might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. in addition, we may in specific circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners, co-tenants or co-venturers. as of december 31, 2005, we were participating in eight unconsolidated joint ventures encompassing eight properties and had an aggregate cost basis in the joint ventures totaling $543.2 million. as of december 31, 2005, our share of joint venture debt totaled $1.0 billion. our joint venture agreements contain terms in favor of our partners that may have an adverse effect on the value of our investments in the joint ventures. each of our joint venture agreements has been individually negotiated with our partner in the joint venture and, in some cases, we have agreed to terms that are favorable to our partner in the joint venture. for example, our partner may be entitled to a specified portion of the profits of the joint venture before we are entitled to any portion of such profits and our partner may have rights to buy our interest in the joint venture, to force us to buy the partner interest in the joint venture or to compel the sale of the property owned by such joint venture. these rights may permit our partner in a particular joint venture to obtain a greater benefit from the value or profits of the joint venture than us, which may have an adverse effect on the value of our investment in the joint venture and on our financial condition and results of operations. we may also enter into similar arrangements in the future. we are subject to possible environmental liabilities and other possible liabilities. we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws. these laws regulate our use, storage, disposal and management of hazardous substances and, wastes and can impose liability on property owners or operators for the clean-up of certain hazardous substances released on a property and any associated damage to natural resources without regard to whether the release was legal or whether it was caused by the property owner or operator. the presence of hazardous substances on our properties may adversely affect occupancy and our ability to develop or sell or borrow against those properties. in addition to potential liability for clean-up costs, private plaintiffs may bring claims for personal injury, property damage or for similar reasons. various laws also impose liability for the clean-up of contamination at any facility (e.g., a landfill) to which we have sent hazardous substances for treatment or disposal, without regard to whether the materials were transported, treated and disposed in accordance with law. our properties may be subject to other risks relating to current or future laws including laws benefiting disabled persons, and other state or local zoning, construction or other regulations. these laws may require significant property modifications in the future for which we may not have budgeted and could result in fines being levied against us. the occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse impact on our cash flows and ability to make distributions to stockholders. we may incur significant costs complying with the americans with disabilities act and similar laws. under the americans with disabilities act, or ada, all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. additional federal, state and local laws also may require modifications to our properties, or restrict our ability to renovate our properties. we have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance. if one or more of our properties is not in compliance with the ada or other legislation, then we would be required to 11 incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance. we cannot predict the ultimate amount of the cost of compliance with ada or other legislation. if we incur substantial costs to comply with the ada and any other legislation, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and/or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders could be adversely affected. our charter documents and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us, which could discourage takeover attempts and prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium over the market price of our stock. provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws could inhibit changes in control. a change of control of our company could benefit stockholders by providing them with a premium over the then-prevailing market price of the stock. however provisions contained in our articles of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent a change in control of our company. these provisions, discussed more fully below, are: staggered board of directors; ownership limitations for tax purposes; the board of director ability to issue additional common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval; and stockholder rights plan. our board of directors is staggered into three separate classes . the board of directors of our company is divided into three classes. the terms of the class i, class ii and class iii directors expire in 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. our staggered board may deter changes in control because of the increased time period necessary for a third party to acquire control of the board. we have a share ownership limit for reit tax purposes . to remain qualified as a reit for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of any taxable year. for this purpose, stock may be owned directly, as well as indirectly under certain constructive ownership rules, including, for example, rules that attribute stock held by one family member to another family member. to avoid violating this rule regarding share ownership limitations and maintain our reit qualification, our articles of incorporation prohibit ownership by any single stockholder of more than 9.0% in value or number of shares of our common stock. limitations on the ownership of preferred stock may also be imposed by us. the board of directors has the discretion to raise or waive this limitation on ownership for any stockholder if deemed to be in our best interest. to obtain a waiver, a stockholder must present the board and our tax counsel with evidence that ownership in excess of this limit will not affect our present or future reit status. absent any exemption or waiver, stock acquired or held in excess of the limit on ownership will be transferred to a trust for the exclusive benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary, and the stockholder rights to distributions and to vote would terminate. the stockholder would be entitled to receive, from the proceeds of any subsequent sale of the shares transferred to the charitable trust, the lesser of: the price paid for the stock or, if the owner did not pay for the stock, the market price of the stock on the date of the event causing the stock to be transferred to the charitable trust; and the amount realized from the sale. this limitation on ownership of stock could delay or prevent a change in control. we have a stockholder rights plan . we adopted a stockholder rights plan which provides, among other things, that when specified events occur, our stockholders will be entitled to purchase from us a newly created series of junior preferred shares, subject to our ownership limit described above. the preferred share purchase rights are triggered by the earlier to occur of (1) ten days after the date of a public announcement that a person or group acting in concert has acquired, or obtained the right to acquire, beneficial ownership of 17% or more of our outstanding shares of common stock or (2) ten business days after the commencement of or announcement of an intention to make a tender offer or exchange offer, the consummation of which would result in the acquiring person becoming the beneficial owner of 17% or more of our outstanding common stock. the preferred share purchase rights would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors. maryland takeover statutes may prevent a change of control of our company, which could depress our stock price. under maryland law, business combinations between a maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. these business combinations include a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. an interested stockholder is defined as: any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation shares; or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock of the corporation. 12 a person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if the board of directors approves in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. after the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by the board of directors of the corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least: 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation; and two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder. the business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer, including potential acquisitions that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. we have opted out of these provisions of the maryland general corporation law, or the mgcl, with respect to its business combination provisions and its control share provisions by resolution of our board of directors and a provision in our bylaws, respectively. however, in the future, our board of directors may reverse its decision by resolution and elect to opt in to the mgcl business combination provisions, or amend our bylaws and elect to opt in to the mgcl control share provisions. additionally, title 8, subtitle 3 of the mgcl permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses, some of which we do not have. these provisions may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making us an acquisition proposal or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control under circumstances that otherwise could provide you with an opportunity to realize a premium over the then-current market price. future issuances of common stock and preferred stock could dilute existing stockholders interests. our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue additional shares of common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval. any such issuance could dilute our existing stockholders interests. also, any future series of preferred stock may have voting provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control. changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. as with other publicly traded equity securities, the value of our common stock depends on various market conditions, which may change from time to time. among the market conditions that may affect the value of our common stock are the following: the extent of your interest in us; the general reputation of reits and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies; our financial performance; and general stock and bond market conditions. the market value of our common stock is based primarily upon the market perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash dividends. consequently, our common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share of common stock. if our future earnings or cash dividends are less than expected, it is likely that the market price of our common stock will diminish. market interest rates may have an effect on the value of our common stock. if market interest rates go up, prospective purchasers of shares of our common stock may expect a higher distribution rate on our common stock. higher market interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for us to distribute and, to the contrary, would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of our common stock to go down. there are potential conflicts of interest between us and mr. green. there is a potential conflict of interest relating to the disposition of the property contributed to us by stephen l. green, and his family. mr. green serves as the chairman of our board of directors and is an executive officer. as part of our formation, mr. green contributed appreciated property, with a net book value of $73.5 million, to the operating partnership in exchange for units of limited partnership interest in the operating partnership. he did not recognize any taxable gain as a result of the contribution. the operating partnership, however, took a tax basis in the contributed property equal to that of the contributing unitholder. the fair market value of the property contributed by him exceeded his tax basis by approximately $34.0 million at the time of contribution. the difference between fair market value and tax basis at the time of contribution represents a built-in gain. if we sell a property in a transaction in 13 which a taxable gain is recognized, for tax purposes the built-in gain would be allocated solely to him and not to us. as a result, mr. green has a conflict of interest if the sale of a property, which he contributed, is in our best interest but not his. there is a potential conflict of interest relating to the refinancing of indebtedness specifically allocated to mr. green. mr. green would recognize gain if he were to receive a distribution of cash from the operating partnership in an amount that exceeds his tax basis in his partnership units. his tax basis includes his share of debt, including mortgage indebtedness, owed by our operating partnership. if the operating partnership were to retire such debt, then he would experience a decrease in his share of liabilities, which, for tax purposes, would be treated as a distribution of cash to him. to the extent the deemed distribution of cash exceeded his tax basis, he would recognize gain. limitations on our ability to sell or reduce the indebtedness on specific mortgaged properties could adversely affect the value of the stock. we have agreed to restrictions relating to future transactions involving 673 first avenue and 470 park avenue south. during the period of time that these restrictions apply, our ability to manage or use these properties in a manner that is in our overall best interests may be impaired. in particular, these restrictions could preclude us from participating in major transactions otherwise favorable to us if a disposition of these restricted assets is required. these restrictions may also inhibit a change in control of our company even though a disposition or change in control might be in the best interests of the stockholders. specifically, we have agreed not to sell our interest in these properties until august 20, 2009 without the approval of unitholders holding at least 75% of the units issued in consideration for these properties. the current gross carrying value of the commercial real estate of these properties totaled $85.5 million at december 31, 2005. we have also agreed not to reduce the mortgage indebtedness ($34.5 million at december 31, 2005), other than pursuant to scheduled amortization, on 673 first avenue until one year prior to its maturity date without the same consent. in addition, we are obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to refinance this mortgage prior to its maturity date in an amount not less than the principal amount outstanding on the maturity date. with respect to 673 first avenue, mr. green controls at least 75% of the units whose approval is necessary. with respect to 470 park avenue south, mr. green controls at least 65% of the units whose approval is necessary. finally, during this period, we may not incur debt secured by any of these properties if the amount of our new debt would exceed the greater of 75% of the value of the property securing the debt or the amount of existing debt being refinanced plus associated costs. the maturity date for the mortgage loan for 673 first avenue is february 11, 2013. in addition, on may 15, 2002, we acquired the property located at 1515 broadway, new york, new york. under a tax protection agreement established to protect the limited partners of the partnership that transferred 1515 broadway to us, we have agreed not to take certain action that would adversely affect the limited partners tax positions before december 31, 2011. we also acquired the property located at 220 east 42nd street, new york, new york, on february 13, 2003 and condominium interests in the property located at 125 broad street, new york, new york on march 28, 2003. we have agreed not to take certain action that would adversely affect the tax positions of certain of the partners who held interests in these properties prior to the acquisitions for a period of seven years, in the case of 220 east 42nd street, and a period of three years, in the case of 125 broad street, after the respective acquisitions. we also acquired the property located at 625 madison avenue, new york, new york, on october 19, 2004 and have agreed not to take certain action that would adversely affect the tax positions of certain of the partners who held interests in this property prior to the acquisition for a period of seven years after the acquisition. in connection with future acquisitions of interests in properties, we may agree to similar restrictions on our ability to sell or refinance the acquired properties with similar potential adverse consequences. we face potential conflicts of interest. members of management may have a conflict of interest over whether to enforce terms of agreements with entities in which senior management, directly or indirectly, has an interest. two entities owned by one of mr. green sons, first quality maintenance, l.p. and classic security llc, currently provide cleaning, exterminating and security services to all of our office properties, with the exception of cleaning services at one property. our company and our tenants accounted for approximately 12.9% of first quality maintenance, l.p. 2005 total revenue and 42.4% of classic security llc 2005 total revenue. bright star courier, llc, a messenger service company owned by one of mr. green sons, has provided messenger services at of our properties since may 1, 2002. we accounted for approximately 29.9% of bright star courier, llc 2005 total revenue. in addition, onyx restoration works, a restoration company owned by one of mr. green sons, has provided restoration services at all of our properties since march 2005. we accounted for approximately 67.1% of onyx restoration works 2005 total revenue. while the contracts pursuant to which these services are provided are reviewed by our board of directors, they are not the result of arm length negotiations and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the terms and conditions are not less favorable than those which could be obtained from third parties providing comparable services. 14 members of management may have a conflict of interest over whether to enforce terms of senior management employment and noncompetition agreements. stephen green, marc holliday, gregory hughes, andrew levine, gerard nocera and andrew mathias entered into employment and noncompetition agreements with us pursuant to which they have agreed not to engage in the acquisition, development or operation of office real estate in the new york city metropolitan area. for the most part these restrictions apply to the executive both during his employment and for a period of time thereafter. each executive is also prohibited from otherwise disrupting or interfering with our business through the solicitation of our employees or clients or otherwise. to the extent that we choose to enforce our rights under any of these agreements, we may determine to pursue available remedies, such as actions for damages or injunctive relief, less vigorously than we otherwise might because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with the individual involved. additionally, the non-competition provisions of these agreements despite being limited in scope and duration, could be difficult to enforce, or may be subject to limited enforcement, should litigation arise over them in the future. mr. green has interests in two properties in manhattan, which are exempt from the non-competition provisions of his employment and non-competition agreement. our failure to qualify as a reit would be costly. we believe we have operated in a manner to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes and intend to continue to so operate. many of these requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. the determination that we are a reit requires an analysis of factual matters and circumstances. these matters, some of which may not be totally within our control, can affect our qualification as a reit. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income must come from designated sources that are listed in the reit tax laws. we are also required to distribute to stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income excluding capital gains. the fact that we hold our assets through the operating partnership and its subsidiaries further complicates the application of the reit requirements. even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our reit status. furthermore, congress and the internal revenue service, which we refer to as the irs, might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified as a reit. if we fail to qualify as a reit, we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. also, unless the irs grants us relief under specific statutory provisions, we would remain disqualified as a reit for four years following the year we first failed to qualify. if we failed to qualify as a reit, we would have to pay significant income taxes and would therefore have less money available for investments or for distributions to stockholders. this would likely have a significant adverse effect on the value of our securities. in addition, the reit tax laws would no longer require us to make any distributions to stockholders. previously enacted tax legislation reduces tax rates for dividends paid by non-reit corporations. under certain previously enacted tax legislation, the maximum tax rate on dividends to individuals has generally been reduced from 38.6% to 15% (from january 1, 2003 through december 31, 2008). the reduction in rates on dividends is generally not applicable to dividends paid by a reit except in limited circumstances that we do not contemplate. although this legislation will not adversely affect the taxation of reits or dividends paid by reits, the favorable treatment of regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals to consider stock of non-reit corporations that pay dividends as relatively more attractive than stocks of reits. it is not possible to predict whether such a change in perceived relative value will occur or what the effect, if any, this legislation will have on the market price of our stock. we are dependent on external sources of capital. because of distribution requirements imposed on us to qualify as a reit, it is not likely that we will be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisitions, from income from operations. we therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. in addition, we anticipate having to raise money in the public equity and debt markets with some regularity, and our ability to do so will depend upon the general conditions prevailing in these markets. at any time conditions may exist which effectively prevent us, and reits in general, from accessing these markets. moreover, additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of our stockholders interests, and additional debt financing may substantially increase our leverage. we face significant competition for tenants. the leasing of real estate is highly competitive. the principal means of competition are rent charged, location, services provided and the nature and condition of the facility to be leased. we directly compete with all lessors and developers of similar space in the areas in which our properties are located. demand for retail space has been impacted by the recent bankruptcy of a number of retail companies and a general trend toward consolidation in the retail industry, which could adversely affect the ability of our company to attract and retain tenants. our office building properties are concentrated in highly developed areas of midtown manhattan. manhattan is the largest office 15 market in the united states. the number of competitive office properties in manhattan could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease office space at our properties, and on the effective rents we are able to charge. these competing properties may be newer or better located. in addition, we may compete with other property owners (including other reits that currently invest in markets other than manhattan) that are willing to pay higher prices to acquire properties in transactions that are more highly leveraged than we are willing to undertake and therefore, our ability to make future acquisitions may be limited. loss of our key personnel could harm our operations. we are dependent on the efforts of stephen l. green, the chairman of our board of directors and an executive officer, and marc holliday, our chief executive officer and president. a loss of the services of either of these individuals could adversely affect our operations. our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. we may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses, affect our operations and affect our reputation. changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and new sec regulations and new york stock exchange rules, are creating uncertainty for public companies. these new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. we are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. as a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. in particular, our efforts to comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors audit of that assessment has required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. in addition, it has become more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. further, our directors, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. as a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified directors and executive officers, which could harm our business. if our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. forward-looking statements may prove inaccurate see item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations forward-looking information for additional disclosure regarding forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk see item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - market rate risk for additional information regarding our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. the table below presents principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of our debt obligations and structured finance investments and the related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates as of december 31, 2005 (in thousands): long-term debt average structured finance investments date fixed rate average interest rate variable rate interest rate amount weighted yield 2006 $ 4,125 5.54 % $ % $ 81,000 10.22 % 2007 82,727 5.50 % 123,579 5.93 % 10,000 15.34 % 2008 11,318 5.63 % 123,533 5.56 % 28,500 8.65 % 2009 348,359 5.60 % % 32,000 10.34 % 2010 270,108 5.70 % 40,000 5.36 % 3,939 9.80 % thereafter 538,503 5.51 % % 244,637 10.53 % total $ 1,255,140 5.55 % $ 287,112 5.63 % $ 400,076 10.43 % fair value $ 1,231,000 $ 287,112 $ 400,076 the table below presents the gross principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of our share of our joint venture debt obligations and the related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates as of december 31, 2005 (in thousands): long term debt date fixed rate average interest rate variable rate average interest rate 2006 (1) $ 2,535 5.96 % $ 63,250 5.25 % 2007 5,447 5.96 % 414,431 5.26 % 2008 5,719 5.96 % % 2009 6,135 5.96 % % 2010 6,574 5.96 % 76,500 4.73 % thereafter 459,673 5.94 % % total $ 486,083 5.95 % $ 554,181 5.16 % fair value $ 484,000 $ 554,181 (1) included in this item is $63,250 based on the contractual maturity dates of the debt on 1250 broadway. this loan has three one-year as-of-right extension options. the table below lists all of our derivative instruments, which are hedging variable rate debt, including joint ventures, and their related fair value as of december 31, 2005 (in thousands): asset hedged benchmark rate notional value strike rate effective date expiration date fair value interest rate swap term loan libor $ 65,000 3.300 % 8/2005 9/2006 $ 599 interest rate swap term loan libor 4.330 % 9/2006 6/2008 439 interest rate swap term loan libor 100,000 4.060 % 12/2003 12/2007 1,236 interest rate swap term loan libor 35,000 4.113 % 12/2004 6/2008 494 interest rate swap term loan libor 100,000 2.330 % 4/2004 5/2006 734 interest rate swap term loan libor 4.650 % 5/2006 12/2008 233 interest rate swap term loan libor 125,000 2.710 % 9/2004 9/2006 1,630 interest rate swap term loan libor 4.352 % 9/2006 8/2009 1,345 interest rate swap term loan libor 60,000 3.770 % 5/2005 1/2007 567 interest rate swap term loan libor 4.364 % 1/2007 5/2010 690 interest rate cap mortgage libor 12,580 6.600 % 8/2005 9/2007 1 interest rate cap mortgage libor 102,550 6.691 % 11/2005 11/2007 12 total consolidated hedges $ 600,130 $ 7,980 in addition to these derivative instruments, some of our joint venture loan agreements require the joint venture to purchase interest rate caps on its debt. all these interest rate caps were out of the money and had no value at december 31, 2005. 45risk factors declines in the demand for office space in new york city, and in particular, in midtown manhattan, resulting from general economic conditions could adversely affect the value of our real estate portfolio and our results of operations and, consequently, our ability to service current debt and to pay dividends to stockholders. most of our office properties are located in midtown manhattan. as a result, our business is dependent on the condition of the new york city economy in general and the market for office space in midtown manhattan, in particular. weakness in the new york city economy could materially reduce the value of our real estate portfolio and our revenues, and thus adversely affect our ability to service current debt and to pay dividends to stockholders. we may be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases expire. when our tenants decide not to renew their leases upon their expiration, we may not be able to relet the space. even if tenants do renew or we can relet the space, the terms of renewal or reletting, including the cost of required renovations, may be less favorable than current lease terms. over the next five years, through the end of 2011, leases will expire on approximately 38.5% and 38.8% of the rentable square feet at our wholly-owned and joint venture properties, respectively. as of december 31, 2006, approximately 3.9 million and 3.3 million square feet are scheduled to expire by december 31, 2011 at our wholly-owned and joint venture properties, respectively, and these leases currently have annualized escalated rental income totaling approximately $164.3 million and $164.2 million, respectively. if we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet this space at similar rates, our cash flow and ability to service debt and pay dividends to stockholders would be adversely affected. the expiration of long term leases or operating sublease interests could adversely affect our results of operations. our interest in six of our commercial office properties is through either long-term leasehold or operating sublease interests in the land and the improvements, rather than by a fee interest in the land. unless we can purchase a fee interest in the underlying land or extend the terms of these leases before their expiration, we will lose our right to operate these properties and our interest in the improvements upon expiration of the leases, which would significantly adversely affect our results of operations. these properties are 673 first avenue, 420 lexington avenue, 461 fifth avenue, 711 third avenue, 625 madison avenue and 521 fifth avenue. the average remaining term of these long-term leases, including our unilateral extension rights on each of the properties, is approximately 30 years. pursuant to the operating sublease arrangements, we, as tenant under the operating sublease, perform the functions traditionally performed by landlords with respect to our subtenants. we are responsible for not only collecting rent from our subtenants, but also maintaining the property and paying expenses relating to the property. the annualized escalated rents of these properties at december 31, 2006 totaled approximately $152.9 million, or 24.3%, of our share of total portfolio annualized revenue associated with these properties. reliance on major tenants and insolvency or bankruptcy of these and other tenants could adversely affect our results of operations. giving effect to leases in effect as of december 31, 2006 for wholly-owned and joint venture properties as of that date, our five largest tenants, based on square footage leased, accounted for approximately 22.4% of our share of portfolio annualized rent, and, other than three tenants, viacom international inc., credit suisse securities (usa) llc and citigroup, n.a. who accounted for approximately 7.9%, 4.4% and 4.4% of our share of portfolio annualized rent, respectively, no tenant accounted for more than 3.3% of that total. our business would be adversely affected if any of these tenants or any other tenants became insolvent, declared bankruptcy or otherwise refused to pay rent in a timely fashion or at all. we may suffer adverse consequences if our revenues decline since our operating costs do not necessarily decline in proportion to our revenue. we earn a significant portion of our income from renting our properties. our operating costs, however, do not necessarily fluctuate in relation to changes in our rental revenue. this means that our costs will not necessarily decline even if our revenues do. our operating costs could also increase while our revenues do not. if our operating costs increase but our rental revenues do not, we may be forced to borrow to cover our costs, we may incur losses and we may not have cash available for distributions to our stockholders. 8 we face risks associated with property acquisitions. since our initial public offering, we have made acquisitions of individual properties and portfolios of properties. we intend to continue to acquire individual properties and portfolios of properties, including large portfolios that could significantly increase our size and alter our capital structure. our acquisition activities and their success may be exposed to the following risks: we may be unable to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well capitalized real estate investors, including publicly traded reits, institutional investment funds and private investors or at all; even if we enter into an acquisition agreement for a property, it is usually subject to customary conditions to closing, including due diligence investigations to our satisfaction; even if we are able to acquire a desired property, competition from other real estate investors may significantly increase the purchase price; we may be unable to finance acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; acquired properties may fail to perform as we expected; our estimates of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping acquired properties may be inaccurate; we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for new properties; acquired properties may be located in new markets where we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, lack of business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures; and we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and as a result our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. as a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. unknown liabilities with respect to properties acquired might include: liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination; claims by tenants, vendors or other persons dealing with the former owners of the properties; liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. competition for acquisitions may reduce the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and increase the costs of those acquisitions. we plan to continue to acquire properties as we are presented with attractive opportunities. we may face competition for acquisition opportunities with other investors, particularly private investors who can incur more leverage, and this competition may adversely affect us by subjecting us to the following risks: an inability to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well-capitalized real estate investors, including publicly traded and privately held reits, institutional investment funds, investment banking firms and other real estate investors; and an increase in the purchase price for such acquisition property, in the event we are able to acquire such desired property. we rely on three large properties for a significant portion of our revenue. as of december 31, 2006, three of our properties, 420 lexington avenue, 1221 avenue of the americas and 1515 broadway, accounted for approximately 28% of our portfolio annualized rent, including our share of joint venture annualized rent, and 1221 avenue of the americas alone accounted for approximately 10% of our portfolio annualized rent, including our share of joint venture annualized rent. our revenue and cash available for distribution to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected if the ground lease for the 420 lexington avenue property were terminated for any reason or if one or all of these properties were materially damaged or destroyed. additionally, our revenue and cash available for distribution to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected if our tenants at these properties experienced a downturn in their business which may weaken their financial condition and result in their failure to timely make rental payments, defaulting under their leases or filing for bankruptcy. the continuing threat of terrorist attacks may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to generate cash flow. there may be a decrease in demand for space in new york city because it is considered at risk for future terrorist attacks, and this decrease may reduce our revenues from property rentals. in the aftermath of a terrorist attack, tenants in the new york city area may 9 choose to relocate their business to less populated, lower-profile areas of the united states that are not as likely to be targets of future terrorist activity. this in turn would trigger a decrease in the demand for space in the new york city area, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease our properties on less favorable terms. as a result, the value of our properties and the level of our revenues could materially decline. a terrorist attack could cause insurance premiums to increase significantly. we maintain all-risk property and rental value coverage (including coverage regarding the perils of flood, earthquake and terrorism) and liability insurance with limits in excess of $200.0 million per location. the property coverage has a blanket limit of $600.0 million per occurrence for all the properties in our portfolio with a sub-limit of $450.0 million for acts of terrorism. the property policies expire on december 31, 2007 and the liability policies expire on october 31, 2007. the new property policies incorporate our newly formed belmont insurance company, or belmont, a captive insurance company which we formed and which received its license to underwrite insurance in new york state, in an effort to stabilize, to some extent, the fluctuations of insurance market conditions. belmont is licensed to write up to $100.0 million of coverage for us, but at this time is providing $50.0 million of terrorism coverage in excess of $100.0 million and is insuring a large deductible on the liability insurance with a $250,000 deductible per occurrence and a $2,000,000 annual aggregate loss limit. we have secured an insurer to protect against catastrophic liability losses. we have retained a third party administrator to manage all claims within the deductible and we anticipate that direct management of liability claims will improve loss experience and ultimately lower the cost of liability insurance in future years. we have a 45% interest in the property at 1221 avenue of the americas, where we participate with the rockefeller group inc., which carries a blanket policy providing $1.0 billion of all-risk property insurance, including terrorism coverage, and a 49.9% interest in the property at 100 park avenue, where we participate with prudential, which carries a blanket policy of $500.0 million of all-risk property insurance, including terrorism coverage. we, together with gramercy, own one madison avenue, which is under a triple net lease with insurance provided by the tenant, credit suisse securities (usa) llc. we monitor the coverage provided by credit suisse securities (usa) llc to make sure that our asset is adequately protected. although we consider our insurance coverage to be appropriate, in the event of a major catastrophe, such as an act of terrorism, we may not have sufficient coverage to replace certain properties. in october 2006, we formed a wholly-owned taxable reit subsidiary, belmont, to act as a captive insurance company and be one of the elements of our overall insurance program. belmont acts as a direct insurer with respect to a portion of our terrorism coverage and provides primary liability insurance to cover the deductible program. as long as we own belmont, we are responsible for its liquidity and capital resources, and the accounts of belmont are part of our consolidated financial statements. if we experience a loss and belmont is required to pay under its insurance policy, we would ultimately record the loss to the extent of belmont required payment. therefore, insurance coverage provided by belmont should not be considered as the equivalent of third-party insurance, but rather as a modified form of self-insurance. the terrorism risk insurance act, or tria, which was enacted in november 2002, was renewed on january 1, 2006. congress extended tria, now called triea (terrorism risk insurance extension act) until december 31, 2007. our debt instruments, consisting of mortgage loans secured by our properties (which are generally non-recourse to us), mezzanine loans, ground leases and our 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility and secured and unsecured term loans, contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance. there can be no assurance that the lenders or ground lessors under these instruments will not take the position that a total or partial exclusion from all-risk insurance coverage for losses due to terrorist acts is a breach of these debt and ground lease instruments that allows the lenders or ground lessors to declare an event of default and accelerate repayment of debt or recapture of ground lease positions. in addition, if lenders insist on full coverage for these risks and prevail in asserting that we are required to maintain such coverage, it could result in substantially higher insurance premiums. our dependence on smaller and growth-oriented businesses to rent our office space could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. many of the tenants in our properties are smaller, growth-oriented businesses that may not have the financial strength of larger corporate tenants. smaller companies generally experience a higher rate of failure than large businesses. growth-oriented firms may also seek other office space, including class a space, as they develop. dependence on these companies could create a higher risk of tenant defaults, turnover and bankruptcies, which could adversely affect our distributable cash flow and results of operations. debt financing, financial covenants, degree of leverage, and increases in interest rates could adversely affect our economic performance. scheduled debt payments could adversely affect our results of operations. the total principal amount of our outstanding consolidated indebtedness was approximately $1.8 billion as of december 31, 2006, consisting of $325.0 million under our unsecured term loan, $200.0 million under our secured term loan, $100.0 million under our junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures and approximately $1.2 billion of non-recourse mortgage loans on thirteen of our properties. in addition, we could increase the amount of our outstanding indebtedness in the future, in part by borrowing under our 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility, which had $484.0 million available for draw as of december 31, 2006. our 2005 unsecured revolving credit 10 facility matures in september 2008. our unsecured term loan matures in august 2009. our secured term loan matures in may 2010. as of december 31, 2006, the total principal amount of non-recourse indebtedness outstanding at the joint venture properties was approximately $2.5 billion, of which our proportionate share was approximately $1.2 billion. cash flow could be insufficient to pay distributions at expected levels and meet the payments of principal and interest required under our current mortgage indebtedness, credit facilities, term loans, debentures and indebtedness outstanding at our joint venture properties. if we are unable to make payments under our unsecured credit facility and our secured and unsecured term loans, all amounts due and owing at such time shall accrue interest at a rate equal to 4% higher than the rate at which each such loan was made. if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property, resulting in loss of income and asset value. foreclosure on mortgaged properties or an inability to make scheduled payments under our secured and unsecured term loans and unsecured credit facility would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to refinance existing indebtedness, which in all cases requires substantial principal payments at maturity. in 2007, approximately $83.8 million and $880.2 million of debt on our wholly-owned buildings and our joint venture properties, respectively, will mature. at the present time we intend to exercise extension options or refinance the debt associated with our properties on or prior to their respective maturity dates. if any principal payments due at maturity cannot be refinanced, extended or paid with proceeds of other capital transactions, such as new equity capital, our cash flow will not be sufficient in all years to repay all maturing debt. at the time of refinancing, prevailing interest rates or other factors, such as the possible reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans may result in higher interest rates. increased interest expense on the refinanced debt would adversely affect cash flow and our ability to service debt and make distributions to stockholders. financial covenants could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. the mortgages on our properties contain customary negative covenants that limit our ability to further mortgage the property, to enter into new leases or materially modify existing leases, and to discontinue insurance coverage. in addition, our 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility contains customary restrictions and requirements on our method of operations. our 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility and unsecured term loan also require us to maintain designated ratios of total debt-to-assets, debt service coverage and unencumbered assets-to-unsecured debt. restrictions on our ability to conduct business could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. rising interest rates could adversely affect our cash flow. advances under our 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility and unsecured term loan and certain property-level mortgage debt bear interest at a variable rate. these variable rate borrowings totaled approximately $303.7 million at december 31, 2006. in addition, we could increase the amount of our outstanding variable rate debt in the future, in part by borrowing under our 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility, which had $484.0 million available for draw as of december 31, 2006. borrowings under our 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility bear interest at a spread equal to the 30-day libor, plus 110 basis points. borrowings under our unsecured term loan and our secured term loan bear interest at spreads equal to the 30-day libor plus 140 and 125 basis points, respectively. as of december 31, 2006, borrowings under the 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility and secured and unsecured term loans and junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures totaled $0.0, $200.0 million, $325.0 million and $100.0 million, respectively, and bore interest at 6.42%, 5.00%, 5.34%, and 5.61%, respectively. we may incur indebtedness in the future that also bears interest at a variable rate or may be required to refinance our debt at higher rates. accordingly, increases in interest rates above that which we anticipated based upon historical trends could adversely affect our ability to continue to make distributions to stockholders. at december 31, 2006, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates along the entire interest rate curve would increase our annual interest costs by approximately $2.9 million and would increase our share of joint venture annual interest costs by approximately $6.7 million. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect results of operations. the interest rate hedge instruments we use to manage some of our exposure to interest rate volatility involve risk, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. in addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. our policy of no limitation on debt could adversely affect our cash flow. our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness we may incur. as of december 31, 2006, assuming the conversion of all outstanding units of the operating partnership into shares of our common stock, our combined debt-to-market capitalization ratio, including our share of joint venture debt of $1.2 billion, was approximately 29.5%. however, our policy is to incur debt only if upon a conversion our consolidated debt to market capitalization ratio would be 60.0% or less. our board of directors can alter or eliminate this policy and may do so if our board of directors determines that this action is in the best interests of our business. if this policy is changed and we become more highly leveraged, an increase in debt service could adversely affect cash available for distribution to stockholders and could increase the risk of default on our indebtedness. in addition, any change that increases our debt to 11 market capitalization percentage could be viewed negatively by investors. as a result, our share price could decrease. we have established our debt policy relative to the total market capitalization of our business rather than relative to the book value of our assets. we use total market capitalization because we believe that the book value of our assets, which to a large extent is the depreciated original cost of our properties, and our primary tangible assets, does not accurately reflect our ability to borrow and to meet debt service requirements. our market capitalization, however, is more variable than book value, and does not necessarily reflect the fair market value of our assets at all times. we also will consider factors other than market capitalization in making decisions regarding the incurrence of indebtedness, such as the purchase price of properties to be acquired with debt financing, the estimated market value of our properties upon refinancing and the ability of particular properties and our business as a whole to generate cash flow to cover expected debt service. structured finance investments could cause expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we owned mezzanine loans, junior participations and preferred equity interests in eighteen properties with an aggregate book value of approximately $445.0 million at december 31, 2006. such investments may or may not be recourse obligations of the borrower and are not insured or guaranteed by governmental agencies or otherwise. in the event of a default under these obligations, we may have to realize upon our collateral and thereafter make substantial improvements or repairs to the underlying real estate in order to maximize the property investment potential. borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against such enforcement and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce their obligation to us. relatively high loan-to-value ratios and declines in the value of the property may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our investment upon foreclosure or realization. in addition, under the origination agreement with gramercy, we may be precluded from making certain types of structured finance investments. joint investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority and reliance upon a co-venturer financial condition. we co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures, co-tenancies or other entities, acquiring non-controlling interests in, or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of, a property, partnership, joint venture, co-tenancy or other entity. therefore, we will not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding that property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. investments in partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities may involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that our partners, co-tenants or co-venturers might become bankrupt or otherwise fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. additionally, our partners or co-venturers might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals, which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals. these investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions such as a sale, because neither we nor the partner, co-tenant or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. consequently, actions by such partner, co-tenant or co-venturer might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. in addition, we may in specific circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners, co-tenants or co-venturers. as of december 31, 2006, our unconsolidated joint ventures owned eight properties and we had an aggregate cost basis in the joint ventures totaling approximately $686.1 million. as of december 31, 2006, our share of joint venture debt totaled approximately $1.2 billion. our joint venture agreements contain terms in favor of our partners that may have an adverse effect on the value of our investments in the joint ventures. each of our joint venture agreements has been individually negotiated with our partner in the joint venture and, in some cases, we have agreed to terms that are favorable to our partner in the joint venture. for example, our partner may be entitled to a specified portion of the profits of the joint venture before we are entitled to any portion of such profits and our partner may have rights to buy our interest in the joint venture, to force us to buy the partner interest in the joint venture or to compel the sale of the property owned by such joint venture. these rights may permit our partner in a particular joint venture to obtain a greater benefit from the value or profits of the joint venture than us, which may have an adverse effect on the value of our investment in the joint venture and on our financial condition and results of operations. we may also enter into similar arrangements in the future. we are subject to possible environmental liabilities and other possible liabilities. we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws. these laws regulate our use, storage, disposal and management of hazardous substances and wastes and can impose liability on property owners or operators for the clean-up of certain hazardous substances released on a property and any associated damage to natural resources without regard to whether the release was legal or whether it was caused by the property owner or operator. the presence of hazardous substances on our properties may adversely affect occupancy and our ability to develop or sell or borrow against those properties. in addition to potential liability for clean-up costs, private plaintiffs may bring claims for personal injury, property damage or for similar reasons. various laws also impose liability for the clean-up of contamination at any facility (e.g., a landfill) to which we have sent hazardous substances for treatment or disposal, without regard to whether the materials were transported, treated and disposed in accordance with law. 12 our properties may be subject to other risks relating to current or future laws including laws benefiting disabled persons, and other state or local zoning, construction or other regulations. these laws may require significant property modifications in the future for which we may not have budgeted and could result in fines being levied against us. the occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse impact on our cash flows and ability to make distributions to stockholders. we may incur significant costs complying with the americans with disabilities act and similar laws. under the americans with disabilities act, or ada, all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. additional federal, state and local laws also may require modifications to our properties, or restrict our ability to renovate our properties. we have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance. if one or more of our properties is not in compliance with the ada or other legislation, then we would be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance. we cannot predict the ultimate amount of the cost of compliance with ada or other legislation. if we incur substantial costs to comply with the ada and any other legislation, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and/or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders could be adversely affected. our charter documents and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us, which could discourage takeover attempts and prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium over the market price of our stock. provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws could inhibit changes in control. a change of control of our company could benefit stockholders by providing them with a premium over the then-prevailing market price of the stock. however provisions contained in our articles of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent a change in control of our company. these provisions, discussed more fully below, are: staggered board of directors; ownership limitations for tax purposes; the board of director ability to issue additional common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval; and stockholder rights plan. our board of directors is staggered into three separate classes. the board of directors of our company is divided into three classes. the terms of the class i, class ii and class iii directors expire in 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. our staggered board may deter changes in control because of the increased time period necessary for a third party to acquire control of the board. we have a share ownership limit for reit tax purposes. to remain qualified as a reit for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of any taxable year. for this purpose, stock may be owned directly, as well as indirectly under certain constructive ownership rules, including, for example, rules that attribute stock held by one family member to another family member. to avoid violating this rule regarding share ownership limitations and maintain our reit qualification, our articles of incorporation prohibit ownership by any single stockholder of more than 9.0% in value or number of shares of our common stock. limitations on the ownership of preferred stock may also be imposed by us. the board of directors has the discretion to raise or waive this limitation on ownership for any stockholder if deemed to be in our best interest. to obtain a waiver, a stockholder must present the board and our tax counsel with evidence that ownership in excess of this limit will not affect our present or future reit status. absent any exemption or waiver, stock acquired or held in excess of the limit on ownership will be transferred to a trust for the exclusive benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary, and the stockholder rights to distributions and to vote would terminate. the stockholder would be entitled to receive, from the proceeds of any subsequent sale of the shares transferred to the charitable trust, the lesser of: the price paid for the stock or, if the owner did not pay for the stock, the market price of the stock on the date of the event causing the stock to be transferred to the charitable trust; and the amount realized from the sale. this limitation on ownership of stock could delay or prevent a change in control. we have a stockholder rights plan. we adopted a stockholder rights plan which provides, among other things, that when specified events occur, our stockholders will be entitled to purchase from us a newly created series of junior preferred shares, subject to our ownership limit described above. the preferred share purchase rights are triggered by the earlier to occur of (1) ten days after the date of a public announcement that a person or group acting in concert has acquired, or obtained the right to acquire, beneficial ownership of 17% or more of our outstanding shares of common stock or (2) ten business days after the commencement of or announcement of an intention to make a tender offer or exchange 13 offer, the consummation of which would result in the acquiring person becoming the beneficial owner of 17% or more of our outstanding common stock. the preferred share purchase rights would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors. maryland takeover statutes may prevent a change of control of our company, which could depress our stock price. under maryland law, business combinations between a maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. these business combinations include a merger, consolidation, share exchange, or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. an interested stockholder is defined as: any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation outstanding shares; or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock of the corporation. a person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if the board of directors approves in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. after the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by the board of directors of the corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least: 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation, voting together as a single group; and two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder. the business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer, including potential acquisitions that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. in addition, maryland law provides that control shares of a maryland corporation acquired in a control share acquisition will have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares of stock owned by the acquiror, by officers of the corporation or by directors who are employees of the corporation, under the maryland control share acquisition act. control shares means voting shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock owned by the acquiror or in respect of which the acquiror is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of voting power: (i) one-tenth or more but less than one-third, (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority, or (iii) a majority or more of all voting power. a control share acquisition means the acquisition of ownership of, or the power to direct the exercise of voting power with respect to, issued and outstanding control shares, subject to certain exceptions. we have opted out of these provisions of the maryland general corporation law, or the mgcl, with respect to business combinations and control share acquisitions by resolution of our board of directors and a provision in our bylaws, respectively. however, in the future, our board of directors may reverse its decision by resolution and elect to opt in to the mgcl business combination provisions, or amend our bylaws and elect to opt in to the mgcl control share provisions. additionally, title 8, subtitle 3 of the mgcl permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses, some of which we do not have. such takeover defenses, if implemented, may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making us an acquisition proposal or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control under circumstances that otherwise could provide you with an opportunity to realize a premium over the then-current market price. future issuances of common stock and preferred stock could dilute existing stockholders interests. our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue additional shares of common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval. any such issuance could dilute our existing stockholders interests. also, any future series of preferred stock may have voting provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control. changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. as with other publicly traded equity securities, the value of our common stock depends on various market conditions, which may change from time to time. among the market conditions that may affect the value of our common stock are the following: the extent of your interest in us; 14 the general reputation of reits and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies; our financial performance; and general stock and bond market conditions. the market value of our common stock is based primarily upon the market perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash dividends. consequently, our common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share of common stock. if our future earnings or cash dividends are less than expected, it is likely that the market price of our common stock will diminish. market interest rates may have an effect on the value of our common stock. if market interest rates go up, prospective purchasers of shares of our common stock may expect a higher distribution rate on our common stock. higher market interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for us to distribute and, to the contrary, would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of our common stock to go down. there are potential conflicts of interest between us and mr. green. there is a potential conflict of interest relating to the disposition of the property contributed to us by stephen l. green, and his family. mr. green serves as the chairman of our board of directors and is an executive officer. as part of our formation, mr. green contributed appreciated property, with a net book value of $73.5 million, to the operating partnership in exchange for units of limited partnership interest in the operating partnership. he did not recognize any taxable gain as a result of the contribution. the operating partnership, however, took a tax basis in the contributed property equal to that of the contributing unitholder. the fair market value of the property contributed by him exceeded his tax basis by approximately $34.0 million at the time of contribution. the difference between fair market value and tax basis at the time of contribution represents a built-in gain. if we sell a property in a transaction in which a taxable gain is recognized, for tax purposes the built-in gain would be allocated solely to him and not to us. as a result, mr. green has a conflict of interest if the sale of a property, which he contributed, is in our best interest but not his. there is a potential conflict of interest relating to the refinancing of indebtedness specifically allocated to mr. green. mr. green would recognize gain if he were to receive a distribution of cash from the operating partnership in an amount that exceeds his tax basis in his partnership units. his tax basis includes his share of debt, including mortgage indebtedness, owed by our operating partnership. if our operating partnership were to retire such debt, then he would experience a decrease in his share of liabilities, which, for tax purposes, would be treated as a distribution of cash to him. to the extent the deemed distribution of cash exceeded his tax basis, he would recognize gain. limitations on our ability to sell or reduce the indebtedness on specific mortgaged properties could adversely affect the value of the stock. we have agreed to restrictions relating to future transactions involving 673 first avenue and 470 park avenue south. during the period of time that these restrictions apply, our ability to manage or use these properties in a manner that is in our overall best interests may be impaired. in particular, these restrictions could preclude us from participating in major transactions otherwise favorable to us if a disposition of these restricted assets is required. these restrictions may also inhibit a change in control of our company even though a disposition or change in control might be in the best interests of the stockholders. specifically, we have agreed not to sell our interest in these properties until august 20, 2009 without the approval of unitholders holding at least 75% of the units issued in consideration for these properties. the current gross carrying value of the commercial real estate of these properties totaled approximately $87.9 million at december 31, 2006. we have also agreed not to reduce the mortgage indebtedness (approximately $33.8 million at december 31, 2006), other than pursuant to scheduled amortization, on 673 first avenue until one year prior to its maturity date without the same consent. in addition, we are obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to refinance this mortgage prior to its maturity date in an amount not less than the principal amount outstanding on the maturity date. with respect to 673 first avenue, mr. green controls at least 75% of the units whose approval is necessary. with respect to 470 park avenue south, mr. green controls at least 65% of the units whose approval is necessary. finally, during this period, we may not incur debt secured by any of these properties if the amount of our new debt would exceed the greater of 75% of the value of the property securing the debt or the amount of existing debt being refinanced plus associated costs. the maturity date for the mortgage loan for 673 first avenue is february 11, 2013. in addition, on may 15, 2002, we acquired the property located at 1515 broadway, new york, new york. under a tax protection agreement established to protect the limited partners of the partnership that transferred 1515 broadway to us, we have agreed not to take certain action that would adversely affect the limited partners tax positions before december 31, 2011. we also acquired the property located at 220 east 42nd street, new york, new york, on february 13, 2003. we have agreed not to take certain action that would adversely affect the tax positions of certain of the partners who held interests in this property prior to the acquisition for a period of seven 15 years, after the acquisition. we also acquired the property located at 625 madison avenue, new york, new york, on october 19, 2004 and have agreed not to take certain action that would adversely affect the tax positions of certain of the partners who held interests in this property prior to the acquisition for a period of seven years after the acquisition. in connection with future acquisitions of interests in properties, we may agree to similar restrictions on our ability to sell or refinance the acquired properties with similar potential adverse consequences. we face potential conflicts of interest. members of management may have a conflict of interest over whether to enforce terms of agreements with entities in which senior management, directly or indirectly, has an interest. two entities owned by one of mr. green sons, first quality maintenance, l.p. and classic security llc, currently provide cleaning, exterminating and security services to all of our office properties, with the exception of cleaning services at one property. our company and our tenants accounted for approximately 13.4% of first quality maintenance, l.p. 2006 total revenue and 39.7% of classic security llc 2006 total revenue. bright star courier, llc, a messenger service company owned by one of mr. green sons, has provided messenger services at of our properties since may 1, 2002. we accounted for approximately 28.8% of bright star courier, llc 2006 total revenue. in addition, onyx restoration works, a restoration company owned by one of mr. green sons, has provided restoration services at all of our properties since march 2005. we accounted for approximately 62.8% of onyx restoration works 2006 total revenue. while the contracts pursuant to which these services are provided are reviewed by our board of directors, they are not the result of arm length negotiations and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the terms and conditions are not less favorable than those which could be obtained from third parties providing comparable services. in addition, to the extent that we choose to enforce our rights under any of these agreements, we may determine to pursue available remedies, such as actions for damages or injunctive relief, less vigorously than we otherwise might because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with the individual involved. members of management may have a conflict of interest over whether to enforce terms of senior management employment and noncompetition agreements. stephen green, marc holliday, gregory hughes, andrew levine and andrew mathias entered into employment and noncompetition agreements with us pursuant to which they have agreed not to actively engage in the acquisition, development or operation of office real estate in the new york city metropolitan area. for the most part these restrictions apply to the executive both during his employment and for a period of time thereafter. each executive is also prohibited from otherwise disrupting or interfering with our business through the solicitation of our employees or clients or otherwise. to the extent that we choose to enforce our rights under any of these agreements, we may determine to pursue available remedies, such as actions for damages or injunctive relief, less vigorously than we otherwise might because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with the individual involved. additionally, the non-competition provisions of these agreements despite being limited in scope and duration, could be difficult to enforce, or may be subject to limited enforcement, should litigation arise over them in the future. mr. green has interests in two properties in manhattan, which are exempt from the non-competition provisions of his employment and non-competition agreement. our failure to qualify as a reit would be costly. we believe we have operated in a manner to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes and intend to continue to so operate. many of these requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. the determination that we are a reit requires an analysis of factual matters and circumstances. these matters, some of which may not be totally within our control, can affect our qualification as a reit. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income must come from designated sources that are listed in the reit tax laws. we are also required to distribute to stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income excluding capital gains. the fact that we hold our assets through the operating partnership and its subsidiaries further complicates the application of the reit requirements. even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our reit status. furthermore, congress and the internal revenue service, which we refer to as the irs, might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified as a reit. if we fail to qualify as a reit, we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. also, unless the irs grants us relief under specific statutory provisions, we would remain disqualified as a reit for four years following the year we first failed to qualify. if we failed to qualify as a reit, we would have to pay significant income taxes and would therefore have less money available for investments or for distributions to stockholders. this would likely have a significant adverse effect on the value of our securities. in addition, the reit tax laws would no longer require us to make any distributions to stockholders. previously enacted tax legislation reduces tax rates for dividends paid by non-reit corporations. under certain previously enacted tax legislation, the maximum tax rate on dividends to individuals has generally been reduced from 38.6% to 15% (from january 1, 2003 through december 31, 2008). the reduction in rates on dividends is generally not applicable to dividends paid by a reit except in limited circumstances that we do not contemplate. although this legislation will not adversely affect 16 the taxation of reits or dividends paid by reits, the favorable treatment of regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals to consider stock of non-reit corporations that pay dividends as relatively more attractive than stocks of reits. it is not possible to predict whether such a change in perceived relative value will occur or what the effect, if any, this legislation will have on the market price of our stock. we are dependent on external sources of capital. because of distribution requirements imposed on us to qualify as a reit, it is not likely that we will be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisitions, from income from operations. we therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. in addition, we anticipate having to raise money in the public equity and debt markets with some regularity, and our ability to do so will depend upon the general conditions prevailing in these markets. at any time conditions may exist which effectively prevent us, and reits in general, from accessing these markets. moreover, additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of our stockholders interests, and additional debt financing may substantially increase our leverage. we face significant competition for tenants. the leasing of real estate is highly competitive. the principal means of competition are rent charged, location, services provided and the nature and condition of the facility to be leased. we directly compete with all lessors and developers of similar space in the areas in which our properties are located. demand for retail space has been impacted by the recent bankruptcy of a number of retail companies and a general trend toward consolidation in the retail industry, which could adversely affect the ability of our company to attract and retain tenants. our office building properties are concentrated in highly developed areas of midtown manhattan. manhattan is the largest office market in the united states. the number of competitive office properties in manhattan (which may be newer or better located than our properties) could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease office space at our properties, and on the effective rents we are able to charge. loss of our key personnel could harm our operations. we are dependent on the efforts of stephen l. green, the chairman of our board of directors and an executive officer, and marc holliday, our chief executive officer and president. a loss of the services of either of these individuals could adversely affect our operations. our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. we may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses, affect our operations and affect our reputation. changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and new sec regulations and new york stock exchange rules, are creating uncertainty for public companies. these new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. we are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. as a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. in particular, our efforts to comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors audit of that assessment has required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. in addition, it has become more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. further, our directors, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. as a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified directors and executive officers, which could harm our business. if our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. 17 forward-looking statements may prove inaccurate see item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations forward-looking information for additional disclosure regarding forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk see item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - market rate risk for additional information regarding our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. the table below presents principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of our debt obligations and structured finance investments and the related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates as of december 31, 2006 (in thousands): long-term debt average structured finance investments date fixed rate average interest rate variable rate interest rate amount weighted yield 2007 $ 83,943 5.92 % $ 10,457 7.01 % $ 44,500 12.36 % 2008 12,591 5.82 % 253,208 6.95 % 28,500 8.86 % 2009 349,726 5.82 % - 6.65 % 39,000 10.15 % 2010 271,558 5.82 % 40,000 6.65 % 3,911 10.01 % 2011 9,429 5.56 % - - % - 10.15 % thereafter 784,467 5.64 % - - % 329,115 10.15 % total $ 1,511,714 5.72 % $ 303,665 6.82 % $ 445,026 10.28 % fair value $ 1,495,124 $ 303,665 $ 445,026 the table below presents the gross principal cash flows based upon maturity dates of our share of our joint venture debt obligations and the related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates as of december 31, 2006 (in thousands): long term debt date fixed rate average interest rate variable rate average interest rate 2007 (1) $ 5,834 5.98 % $ 450,989 6.53 % 2008 6,125 5.98 % 52,900 6.62 % 2009 6,573 5.97 % - 6.50 % 2010 36,308 5.97 % 47,250 6.50 % 2011 8,810 5.98 % 70,000 6.98 % thereafter 524,352 5.94 % - - % total $ 588,002 5.96 % $ 621,139 6.55 % fair value $ 590,432 $ 621,139 (1) included in this item is $63,250 based on the contractual maturity date of the debt on 1250 broadway. this loan has two-year as-of-right extension options. also included is $343,750 based on the contractual maturity date of the debt on 1515 broadway. this loan has three one-year as-of-right extension options. the table below lists all of our derivative instruments, which are hedging variable rate debt, including joint ventures, and their related fair value as of december 31, 2006 (in thousands): asset hedged benchmark rate notional value strike rate effective date expiration date fair value interest rate swap term loan libor $ 65,000 4.330 % 9/2006 6/2008 $ 691 interest rate swap term loan libor 100,000 4.060 % 12/2003 12/2007 1,037 interest rate swap term loan libor 35,000 4.113 % 12/2004 6/2008 479 interest rate swap term loan libor 100,000 4.650 % 5/2006 12/2008 693 interest rate swap term loan libor 125,000 4.352 % 9/2006 8/2009 1,945 interest rate swap term loan libor 60,000 3.770 % 5/2005 1/2007 10 interest rate swap term loan libor - 4.364 % 1/2007 5/2010 1,079 interest rate cap mortgage libor 12,580 6.600 % 8/2005 9/2007 - interest rate cap mortgage libor 112,700 6.000 % 7/2006 8/2008 23 interest rate cap mortgage libor 175,000 6.000 % 9/2006 9/2007 1 interest rate swap future financing libor 150,000 5.125 % 1/2007 1/2017 422 interest rate swap future financing libor 200,000 5.073 % 1/2007 1/2017 1,370 total consolidated hedges $ 1,135,280 $ 7,750 in addition to these derivative instruments, some of our joint venture loan agreements require the joint venture to purchase interest rate caps on its debt. all these interest rate caps were out of the money and had no value at december 31, 2006. 46risk factors declines in the demand for office space in new york city, and in particular, in midtown manhattan, as well as our suburban markets, including westchester county, connecticut, new jersey and long island, resulting from general economic conditions could adversely affect the value of our real estate portfolio and our results of operations and, consequently, our ability to service current debt and to pay dividends to stockholders. most of our commercial office properties are located in midtown manhattan. as a result, our business is dependent on the condition of the new york city economy in general and the market for office space in midtown manhattan, in particular. weakness in the new york city economy could materially reduce the value of our real estate portfolio and our revenues, and thus adversely affect our ability to service current debt and to pay dividends to stockholders. we could also be impacted by weakness in our suburban markets, including westchester county, connecticut, new jersey and long island. we may be unable to renew leases or relet space as leases expire. when our tenants decide not to renew their leases upon their expiration, we may not be able to relet the space. even if tenants do renew or we can relet the space, the terms of renewal or reletting, including the cost of required renovations, may be less favorable than current lease terms. over the next five years, through the end of 2012, leases will expire on approximately 38.1% and 27.4% of the rentable square feet at our consolidated properties and unconsolidated joint venture properties, respectively. as of december 31, 2007, approximately 7.2 million and 3.4 million square feet are scheduled to expire by december 31, 2012 at our consolidated properties and unconsolidated joint venture properties, respectively, and these leases currently have annualized escalated rental income totaling approximately $284.3 million and $147.1 million, respectively. if we are unable to promptly renew the leases or relet this space at similar rates, our cash flow and ability to service debt and pay dividends to stockholders would be adversely affected. the expiration of long term leases or operating sublease interests could adversely affect our results of operations. our interest in 6 of our commercial office properties is through either long-term leasehold or operating sublease interests in the land and the improvements, rather than by a fee interest in the land. unless we can purchase a fee interest in the underlying land or extend the terms of these leases before their expiration, we will lose our right to operate these properties and our interest in the improvements upon expiration of the leases, which would significantly adversely affect our results of operations. these properties are 673 first avenue, 420 lexington avenue, 461 fifth avenue, 711 third avenue, 625 madison avenue and 1185 avenue of the americas. the average remaining term of these long-term leases, including our unilateral extension rights on each of the properties, is approximately 30 years. pursuant to the operating sublease arrangements, we, as tenant under the operating sublease, perform the functions traditionally performed by landlords with respect to our subtenants. we are responsible for not only collecting rent from our subtenants, but also maintaining the property and paying expenses relating to the property. our share of annualized escalated rents of these properties at december 31, 2007 totaled approximately $201.4 million, or 19.9%, of our share of total portfolio annualized revenue associated with these properties. reliance on major tenants and insolvency or bankruptcy of these and other tenants could adversely affect our results of operations. giving effect to leases in effect as of december 31, 2007 for consolidated properties and unconsolidated joint venture properties as of that date, our five largest tenants, based on square footage leased, accounted for approximately 23.5% of our share of portfolio annualized rent, and, other than three tenants, citigroup, n.a., viacom international inc. and credit suisse securities (usa) llc who accounted for approximately 9.6%, 4.9% and 5.9% of our share of portfolio annualized rent, respectively, no tenant accounted for more than 2.3% of that total. our business would be adversely affected if any of these tenants or any other tenants became insolvent, declared bankruptcy or otherwise refused to pay rent in a timely fashion or at all. we may suffer adverse consequences if our revenues decline since our operating costs do not necessarily decline in proportion to our revenue. we earn a significant portion of our income from renting our properties. our operating costs, however, do not necessarily fluctuate in relation to changes in our rental revenue. this means that our costs will not necessarily decline even if our revenues do. our operating costs could also increase while our revenues do not. if our operating costs increase but our rental revenues do not, we may be forced to borrow to cover our costs, we may incur losses and we may not have cash available for distributions to our stockholders. 8 we face risks associated with property acquisitions. we intend to acquire individual properties and portfolios of properties, including large portfolios that could significantly increase our size and alter our capital structure. our acquisition activities and their success may be exposed to the following risks: we may be unable to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well capitalized real estate investors, including publicly traded reits, private real estate funds, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, pension trusts, partnerships and individual investors; even if we enter into an acquisition agreement for a property, it is usually subject to customary conditions to closing, including due diligence investigations to our satisfaction; even if we are able to acquire a desired property, competition from other real estate investors may significantly increase the purchase price; we may be unable to finance acquisitions on favorable terms or at all; acquired properties may fail to perform as we expected; our estimates of the costs of repositioning or redeveloping acquired properties may be inaccurate; we may not be able to obtain adequate insurance coverage for new properties; acquired properties may be located in new markets where we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, lack of business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local governmental and permitting procedures; and we may be unable to quickly and efficiently integrate new acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of portfolios of properties, into our existing operations, and as a result our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. we may acquire properties subject to liabilities and without any recourse, or with only limited recourse, with respect to unknown liabilities. as a result, if a liability were asserted against us based upon those properties, we might have to pay substantial sums to settle it, which could adversely affect our cash flow. unknown liabilities with respect to properties acquired might include: liabilities for clean-up of undisclosed environmental contamination; claims by tenants, vendors or other persons dealing with the former owners of the properties; liabilities incurred in the ordinary course of business; and claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the former owners of the properties. competition for acquisitions may reduce the number of acquisition opportunities available to us and increase the costs of those acquisitions. we plan to continue to acquire properties as we are presented with attractive opportunities. we may face competition for acquisition opportunities with other investors, particularly private investors who can incur more leverage, and this competition may adversely affect us by subjecting us to the following risks: an inability to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well-capitalized real estate investors, including publicly traded and privately held reits, private real estate funds, domestic and foreign financial institutions, life insurance companies, sovereign wealth funds, pension trusts, partnerships and individual investors; and an increase in the purchase price for such acquisition property, in the event we are able to acquire such desired property. we rely on seven large properties for a significant portion of our revenue. as of december 31, 2007, seven of our properties, 420 lexington avenue, one madison avenue, 485 lexington avenue, 1185 avenue of the americas, 1221 avenue of the americas, 1515 broadway and 388 and 390 greenwich street, accounted for approximately 38% of our portfolio annualized rent, including our share of joint venture annualized rent, and no single property accounted for more than approximately 6% of our portfolio annualized rent, including our share of joint venture annualized rent. our revenue and cash available for distribution to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected if the ground lease for the 420 lexington avenue or 1185 avenue of the americas property were terminated for any reason or if one or all of these properties were materially damaged or destroyed. additionally, our revenue and cash available for distribution to our stockholders would be materially adversely affected if our tenants at these properties experienced a downturn in their business which may weaken their financial condition and result in their failure to timely make rental payments, defaulting under their leases or filing for bankruptcy. the continuing threat of terrorist attacks may adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to generate cash flow. there may be a decrease in demand for space in new york city because it is considered at risk for future terrorist attacks, and this decrease may reduce our revenues from property rentals. in the aftermath of a terrorist attack, tenants in the new york city area may choose to relocate their business to less populated, lower-profile areas of the united states that are not as likely to be targets of future terrorist activity. this in turn would trigger a decrease in the demand for space in the new york city area, which could increase vacancies in our properties and force us to lease our properties on less favorable terms. as a result, the value of our properties and the level of our revenues could materially decline. 9 a terrorist attack could cause insurance premiums to increase significantly. we maintain all-risk property and rental value coverage (including coverage regarding the perils of flood, earthquake and terrorism) and liability insurance with limits of $200.0 million per location. we now maintain two property insurance portfolios. the first portfolio maintains a blanket limit of $600.0 million per occurrence for the majority of the new york city properties in our portfolio with a sub-limit of $450.0 million for acts of terrorism. this policy expires on december 31, 2008. the second portfolio maintains a limit of $600.0 million per occurrence, including terrorism, for the majority of the suburban properties. this policy expires on december 31, 2008. the liability policies expire on october 31, 2008. the new york city portfolio incorporates our captive, belmont insurance company, which we formed in an effort to, among other things, stabilize to some extent the fluctuations of insurance market conditions. belmont is licensed in new york to write up to $100.0 million of terrorism coverage for us, and at this time is providing $50.0 million of terrorism coverage in excess of $250.0 million and is insuring a large deductible on the liability insurance with a $250,000 deductible per occurrence and a $2.4 million annual aggregate loss limit. we have secured an excess insurer to protect against catastrophic liability losses (above $250,000 deductible per occurrence) and a stop loss for aggregate claims that exceed $2.4 million. we have retained a third party administrator to manage all claims within the deductible and we anticipate that direct management of liability claims will improve loss experience and ultimately lower the cost of liability insurance in future years. we have a 45% interest in the property at 1221 avenue of the americas, where we participate with the rockefeller group inc., which carries a blanket policy providing $1.0 billion of all-risk property insurance, including terrorism coverage, and a 49.9% interest in the property at 100 park avenue, where we participate with prudential, which carries a blanket policy of $500.0 million of all-risk property insurance, including terrorism coverage. we own one madison avenue, which is under a triple net lease with insurance provided by the tenant, credit suisse securities (usa) llc, or cs. we monitor the coverage provided by cs to make sure that our asset is adequately protected. although we consider our insurance coverage to be appropriate, in the event of a major catastrophe, such as an act of terrorism, we may not have sufficient coverage to replace certain properties. in october 2006, we formed a wholly-owned taxable reit subsidiary, belmont, to act as a captive insurance company and be one of the elements of our overall insurance program. belmont acts as a direct property insurer with respect to a portion of our terrorism coverage for the new york city properties and provides primary liability insurance to cover the deductible program. as long as we own belmont, we are responsible for its liquidity and capital resources, and the accounts of belmont are part of our consolidated financial statements. if we experience a loss and belmont is required to pay under its insurance policy, we would ultimately record the loss to the extent of belmont required payment. therefore, insurance coverage provided by belmont should not be considered as the equivalent of third-party insurance, but rather as a modified form of self-insurance. the terrorism risk insurance act, or tria, which was enacted in november 2002, was renewed on december 31, 2007. congress extended tria, now called tripra ( terrorism risk insurance program reauthorization and extension act of 2007 ) until december 31, 2014. the law extends the federal terrorism insurance program that requires insurance companies to offer terrorism coverage and provides for compensation for insured losses resulting from acts of terrorism. our debt instruments, consisting of mortgage loans secured by our properties (which are generally non-recourse to us), mezzanine loans, ground leases and our 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility and secured term loan, contain customary covenants requiring us to maintain insurance. there can be no assurance that the lenders or ground lessors under these instruments will not take the position that a total or partial exclusion from all-risk insurance coverage for losses due to terrorist acts is a breach of these debt and ground lease instruments that allows the lenders or ground lessors to declare an event of default and accelerate repayment of debt or recapture of ground lease positions. in addition, if lenders insist on full coverage for these risks and prevail in asserting that we are required to maintain such coverage, it could result in substantially higher insurance premiums. our dependence on smaller and growth-oriented businesses to rent our office space could adversely affect our cash flow and results of operations. many of the tenants in our properties are smaller, growth-oriented businesses that may not have the financial strength of larger corporate tenants. smaller companies generally experience a higher rate of failure than large businesses. growth-oriented firms may also seek other office space, including class a space, as they develop. dependence on these companies could create a higher risk of tenant defaults, turnover and bankruptcies, which could adversely affect our distributable cash flow and results of operations. debt financing, financial covenants, degree of leverage, and increases in interest rates could adversely affect our economic performance. scheduled debt payments could adversely affect our results of operations. the total principal amount of our outstanding consolidated indebtedness was approximately $5.7 billion as of december 31, 2007, consisting of $708.5 million under our 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility, $276.7 million under our secured term loan, $1.8 billion under our unsecured notes, $100.0 million under our junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures and approximately $2.8 billion of non-recourse mortgage loans on eighteen of our properties. in addition, we could increase the amount of our outstanding indebtedness in the future, in part by borrowing under our 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility, which had $751.2 million available for draw as of december 31, 2007. our 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility matures in june 2011. our secured term loan matures in december 10 2017. as of december 31, 2007, the total principal amount of non-recourse indebtedness outstanding at the joint venture properties was approximately $3.5 billion, of which our proportionate share was approximately $1.6 billion. cash flow could be insufficient to pay distributions at expected levels and meet the payments of principal and interest required under our current mortgage indebtedness, 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility, term loan, unsecured notes, debentures and indebtedness outstanding at our joint venture properties. if we are unable to make payments under our 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility and our secured term loan, all amounts due and owing at such time shall accrue interest at a rate equal to 4% and 5%, respectively, higher than the rate at which each such loan was made. if a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property, resulting in loss of income and asset value. foreclosure on mortgaged properties or an inability to make scheduled payments under our secured term loan, and our 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility, would have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to refinance existing indebtedness, which in all cases requires substantial principal payments at maturity. in 2008, approximately $304.3 million and $92.1 million of debt on our consolidated properties and our unconsolidated joint venture properties, respectively, will mature. at the present time we intend to exercise extension options or refinance the debt associated with our properties on or prior to their respective maturity dates. if any principal payments due at maturity cannot be refinanced, extended or paid with proceeds of other capital transactions, such as new equity capital, our cash flow will not be sufficient in all years to repay all maturing debt. at the time of refinancing, prevailing interest rates or other factors, such as the possible reluctance of lenders to make commercial real estate loans may result in higher interest rates. increased interest expense on the refinanced debt would adversely affect cash flow and our ability to service debt and make distributions to stockholders. financial covenants could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. the mortgages on our properties contain customary negative covenants that limit our ability to further mortgage the property, to enter into new leases or materially modify existing leases, and to discontinue insurance coverage. in addition, our 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility contains customary restrictions and requirements on our method of operations. our 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility and secured term loan and unsecured bonds also require us to maintain designated ratios of total debt-to-assets, debt service coverage and unencumbered assets-to-unsecured debt. restrictions on our ability to conduct business could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. rising interest rates could adversely affect our cash flow. advances under our 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility and certain property-level mortgage debt bear interest at a variable rate. these variable rate borrowings totaled approximately $1.0 billion at december 31, 2007. in addition, we could increase the amount of our outstanding variable rate debt in the future, in part by borrowing under our 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility, which had $751.2 million available for draw as of december 31, 2007. borrowings under our 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility bear interest at a spread equal to the 30-day libor, plus 80 basis points. as of december 31, 2007, borrowings under our 2005 unsecured revolving credit facility, secured term loan and junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures totaled $708.5 million, $276.7 million and $100.0 million, respectively, and bore interest at 5.73%, 5.19%, and 5.61%, respectively. we may incur indebtedness in the future that also bears interest at a variable rate or may be required to refinance our debt at higher rates. accordingly, increases in interest rates above that which we anticipated based upon historical trends could adversely affect our ability to continue to make distributions to stockholders. at december 31, 2007, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates along the entire interest rate curve would increase our annual interest costs by approximately $9.2 million and would increase our share of joint venture annual interest costs by approximately $6.9 million. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect results of operations. the interest rate hedge instruments we use to manage some of our exposure to interest rate volatility involve risk, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements. in addition, these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. our policy of no limitation on debt could adversely affect our cash flow. our organizational documents do not contain any limitation on the amount of indebtedness we may incur. as of december 31, 2007, assuming the conversion of all outstanding units of the operating partnership into shares of our common stock, our combined debt-to-market capitalization ratio, including our share of joint venture debt of $1.6 billion, was approximately 55.1%. however, our policy is to incur debt only if upon a conversion our consolidated debt to market capitalization ratio would be 60.0% or less. our board of directors can alter or eliminate this policy and may do so if our board of directors determines that this action is in the best interests of our business. if this policy is changed and we become more highly leveraged, an increase in debt service could adversely affect cash available for distribution to stockholders and could increase the risk of default on our indebtedness. in addition, any change that increases our debt to market capitalization percentage could be viewed negatively by investors. as a result, our stock price could decrease. 11 we have established our debt policy relative to the total market capitalization of our business rather than relative to the book value of our assets. we use total market capitalization because we believe that the book value of our assets, which to a large extent is the depreciated original cost of our properties, and our primary tangible assets, does not accurately reflect our ability to borrow and to meet debt service requirements. our market capitalization, however, is more variable than book value, and does not necessarily reflect the fair market value of our assets at all times. we also will consider factors other than market capitalization in making decisions regarding the incurrence of indebtedness, such as the purchase price of properties to be acquired with debt financing, the estimated market value of our properties upon refinancing and the ability of particular properties and our business as a whole to generate cash flow to cover expected debt service. structured finance investments could cause us to incur expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations. we owned mezzanine loans, junior participations and preferred equity interests in 33 properties with an aggregate book value of approximately $805.2 million at december 31, 2007. such investments may or may not be recourse obligations of the borrower and are not insured or guaranteed by governmental agencies or otherwise. in the event of a default under these obligations, we may have to realize upon our collateral and thereafter make substantial improvements or repairs to the underlying real estate in order to maximize the property's investment potential. borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against such enforcement and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce their obligation to us. relatively high loan-to-value ratios and declines in the value of the property may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our investment upon foreclosure or realization. in addition, under the origination agreement with gramercy, we are precluded from making certain types of structured finance investments. joint investments could be adversely affected by our lack of sole decision-making authority and reliance upon a co-venturer's financial condition. we co-invest with third parties through partnerships, joint ventures, co-tenancies or other entities, acquiring non-controlling interests in, or sharing responsibility for managing the affairs of, a property, partnership, joint venture, co-tenancy or other entity. therefore, we will not be in a position to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding that property, partnership, joint venture or other entity. investments in partnerships, joint ventures, or other entities may involve risks not present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that our partners, co-tenants or co-venturers might become bankrupt or otherwise fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. additionally, our partners or co-venturers might at any time have economic or other business interests or goals, which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals. these investments may also have the potential risk of impasses on decisions such as a sale, because neither we nor the partner, co-tenant or co-venturer would have full control over the partnership or joint venture. consequently, actions by such partner, co-tenant or co-venturer might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. in addition, we may in specific circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners, co-tenants or co-venturers. as of december 31, 2007, our unconsolidated joint ventures owned 15 properties and we had an aggregate cost basis in the joint ventures totaling approximately $1.4 billion. as of december 31, 2007, our share of joint venture debt totaled approximately $1.6 billion. our joint venture agreements contain terms in favor of our partners that may have an adverse effect on the value of our investments in the joint ventures. each of our joint venture agreements has been individually negotiated with our partner in the joint venture and, in some cases, we have agreed to terms that are favorable to our partner in the joint venture. for example, our partner may be entitled to a specified portion of the profits of the joint venture before we are entitled to any portion of such profits and our partner may have rights to buy our interest in the joint venture, to force us to buy the partner's interest in the joint venture or to compel the sale of the property owned by such joint venture. these rights may permit our partner in a particular joint venture to obtain a greater benefit from the value or profits of the joint venture than us, which may have an adverse effect on the value of our investment in the joint venture and on our financial condition and results of operations. we may also enter into similar arrangements in the future. we are subject to possible environmental liabilities and other possible liabilities. we are subject to various federal, state and local environmental laws. these laws regulate our use, storage, disposal and management of hazardous substances and wastes and can impose liability on property owners or operators for the clean-up of certain hazardous substances released on a property and any associated damage to natural resources without regard to whether the release was legal or whether it was caused by the property owner or operator. the presence of hazardous substances on our properties may adversely affect occupancy and our ability to develop or sell or borrow against those properties. in addition to potential liability for clean-up costs, private plaintiffs may bring claims for personal injury, property damage or for similar reasons. various laws also impose liability for the clean-up of contamination at any facility (e.g., a landfill) to which we have sent hazardous substances for treatment or disposal, without regard to whether the materials were transported, treated and disposed in accordance with law. our properties may be subject to other risks relating to current or future laws including laws benefiting disabled persons, and other state or local zoning, construction or other regulations. these laws may require significant property modifications in the future for which we may not have budgeted and could result in fines being levied against us. the occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse 12 impact on our cash flows and ability to make distributions to stockholders. we may incur significant costs complying with the americans with disabilities act and similar laws. under the americans with disabilities act, or ada, all public accommodations must meet federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. additional federal, state and local laws also may require modifications to our properties, or restrict our ability to renovate our properties. we have not conducted an audit or investigation of all of our properties to determine our compliance. if one or more of our properties is not in compliance with the ada or other legislation, then we would be required to incur additional costs to bring the property into compliance. we cannot predict the ultimate amount of the cost of compliance with ada or other legislation. if we incur substantial costs to comply with the ada and any other legislation, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow and/or ability to satisfy our debt service obligations and to pay dividends to our stockholders could be adversely affected. our charter documents and applicable law may hinder any attempt to acquire us, which could discourage takeover attempts and prevent our stockholders from receiving a premium over the market price of our stock. provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws could inhibit changes in control. a change of control of our company could benefit stockholders by providing them with a premium over the then-prevailing market price of the stock. however provisions contained in our articles of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent a change in control of our company. these provisions, discussed more fully below, are: staggered board of directors; ownership limitations; the board of director's ability to issue additional common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval; and stockholder rights plan. our board of directors is staggered into three separate classes. the board of directors of our company is divided into three classes. the terms of the class i, class ii and class iii directors expire in 2010, 2008 and 2009, respectively. our staggered board may deter changes in control because of the increased time period necessary for a third party to acquire control of the board. we have a stock ownership limit. to remain qualified as a reit for federal income tax purposes, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding capital stock may be owned by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of any taxable year. for this purpose, stock may be &quot;owned&quot; directly, as well as indirectly under certain constructive ownership rules, including, for example, rules that attribute stock held by one family member to another family member. in part, to avoid violating this rule regarding stock ownership limitations and maintain our reit qualification, our articles of incorporation prohibit ownership by any single stockholder of more than 9.0% in value or number of shares of our common stock. limitations on the ownership of preferred stock may also be imposed by us. the board of directors has the discretion to raise or waive this limitation on ownership for any stockholder if deemed to be in our best interest. to obtain a waiver, a stockholder must present the board and our tax counsel with evidence that ownership in excess of this limit will not affect our present or future reit status. absent any exemption or waiver, stock acquired or held in excess of the limit on ownership will be transferred to a trust for the exclusive benefit of a designated charitable beneficiary, and the stockholder's rights to distributions and to vote would terminate. the stockholder would be entitled to receive, from the proceeds of any subsequent sale of the shares transferred to the charitable trust, the lesser of: the price paid for the stock or, if the owner did not pay for the stock, the market price of the stock on the date of the event causing the stock to be transferred to the charitable trust; and the amount realized from the sale. this limitation on ownership of stock could delay or prevent a change in control. we have a stockholder rights plan. we adopted a stockholder rights plan which provides, among other things, that when specified events occur, our stockholders will be entitled to purchase from us a newly created series of junior preferred shares, subject to our ownership limit described above. the preferred share purchase rights are triggered by the earlier to occur of (1) ten days after the date of a public announcement that a person or group acting in concert has acquired, or obtained the right to acquire, beneficial ownership of 17% or more of our outstanding shares of common stock or (2) ten business days after the commencement of or announcement of an intention to make a tender offer or exchange offer, the consummation of which would result in the acquiring person becoming the beneficial owner of 17% or more of our outstanding common stock. the preferred share purchase rights would cause substantial dilution to a person or group that attempts to acquire us on 13 terms not approved by our board of directors. maryland takeover statutes may prevent a change of control of our company, which could depress our stock price. under maryland law, &quot;business combinations&quot; between a maryland corporation and an interested stockholder or an affiliate of an interested stockholder are prohibited for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder becomes an interested stockholder. these business combinations include a merger, consolidation, stock exchange, or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities. an interested stockholder is defined as: any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the voting power of the corporation's outstanding shares; or an affiliate or associate of the corporation who, at any time within the two-year period prior to the date in question, was the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the voting power of the then outstanding voting stock of the corporation. a person is not an interested stockholder under the statute if the board of directors approves in advance the transaction by which he otherwise would have become an interested stockholder. after the five-year prohibition, any business combination between the maryland corporation and an interested stockholder generally must be recommended by the board of directors of the corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of at least: 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding shares of voting stock of the corporation, voting together as a single group; and two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of voting stock of the corporation other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom or with whose affiliate the business combination is to be effected or held by an affiliate or associate of the interested stockholder. the business combination statute may discourage others from trying to acquire control of us and increase the difficulty of consummating any offer, including potential acquisitions that might involve a premium price for our common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. in addition, maryland law provides that &quot;control shares&quot; of a maryland corporation acquired in a &quot;control share acquisition&quot; will have no voting rights except to the extent approved by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares of stock owned by the acquiror, by officers of the corporation or by directors who are employees of the corporation, under the maryland control share acquisition act. &quot;control shares&quot; means voting shares of stock that, if aggregated with all other shares of stock owned by the acquiror or in respect of which the acquiror is able to exercise or direct the exercise of voting power (except solely by virtue of a revocable proxy), would entitle the acquiror to exercise voting power in electing directors within one of the following ranges of voting power: (i) one-tenth or more but less than one-third, (ii) one-third or more but less than a majority, or (iii) a majority or more of all voting power. a &quot;control share acquisition&quot; means the acquisition of ownership of, or the power to direct the exercise of voting power with respect to, issued and outstanding control shares, subject to certain exceptions. we have opted out of these provisions of the maryland general corporation law, or the mgcl, with respect to business combinations and control share acquisitions by resolution of our board of directors and a provision in our bylaws, respectively. however, in the future, our board of directors may reverse its decision by resolution and elect to opt in to the mgcl's business combination provisions, or amend our bylaws and elect to opt in to the mgcl's control share provisions. additionally, title 8, subtitle 3 of the mgcl permits our board of directors, without stockholder approval and regardless of what is provided in our charter or bylaws, to implement takeover defenses, some of which we do not have. such takeover defenses, if implemented, may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making us an acquisition proposal or of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control under circumstances that otherwise could provide you with an opportunity to realize a premium over the then-current market price. future issuances of common stock and preferred stock could dilute existing stockholders' interests. our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue additional shares of common stock and preferred stock without stockholder approval. any such issuance could dilute our existing stockholders' interests. also, any future series of preferred stock may have voting provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control. changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. as with other publicly traded equity securities, the value of our common stock depends on various market conditions, which may change from time to time. among the market conditions that may affect the value of our common stock are the following: the extent of your interest in us; 14 the general reputation of reits and the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies; our financial performance; and general stock and bond market conditions. the market value of our common stock is based primarily upon the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash dividends. consequently, our common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our net asset value per share of common stock. if our future earnings or cash dividends are less than expected, it is likely that the market price of our common stock will diminish. market interest rates may have an effect on the value of our common stock. if market interest rates go up, prospective purchasers of shares of our common stock may expect a higher distribution rate on our common stock. higher market interest rates would not, however, result in more funds for us to distribute and, to the contrary, would likely increase our borrowing costs and potentially decrease funds available for distribution. thus, higher market interest rates could cause the market price of our common stock to go down. there are potential conflicts of interest between us and mr. green. there is a potential conflict of interest relating to the disposition of the property contributed to us by stephen l. green, and his family. mr. green serves as the chairman of our board of directors and is an executive officer. as part of our formation, mr. green contributed appreciated property, with a net book value of $73.5 million, to the operating partnership in exchange for units of limited partnership interest in the operating partnership. he did not recognize any taxable gain as a result of the contribution. the operating partnership, however, took a tax basis in the contributed property equal to that of the contributing unitholder. the fair market value of the property contributed by him exceeded his tax basis by approximately $34.0 million at the time of contribution. the difference between fair market value and tax basis at the time of contribution represents a built-in gain. if we sell a property in a transaction in which a taxable gain is recognized, for tax purposes the built-in gain would be allocated solely to him and not to us. as a result, mr. green has a conflict of interest if the sale of a property, which he contributed, is in our best interest but not his. there is a potential conflict of interest relating to the refinancing of indebtedness specifically allocated to mr. green. mr. green would recognize gain if he were to receive a distribution of cash from the operating partnership in an amount that exceeds his tax basis in his partnership units. his tax basis includes his share of debt, including mortgage indebtedness, owed by our operating partnership. if our operating partnership were to retire such debt, then he would experience a decrease in his share of liabilities, which, for tax purposes, would be treated as a distribution of cash to him. to the extent the deemed distribution of cash exceeded his tax basis, he would recognize gain. limitations on our ability to sell or reduce the indebtedness on specific mortgaged properties could adversely affect the value of the stock. we have agreed to restrictions relating to future transactions involving 673 first avenue. during the period of time that these restrictions apply, our ability to manage or use this property in a manner that is in our overall best interests may be impaired. in particular, these restrictions could preclude us from participating in major transactions otherwise favorable to us if a disposition of this restricted asset is required. these restrictions may also inhibit a change in control of our company even though a disposition or change in control might be in the best interests of the stockholders. specifically, we have agreed not to sell our interest in this property until august 20, 2009 without the approval of unitholders holding at least 75% of the units issued in consideration for this property. the current gross carrying value of the commercial real estate of this property totaled approximately $45.5 million at december 31, 2007. we have also agreed not to reduce the mortgage indebtedness (approximately $33.1 million at december 31, 2007), other than pursuant to scheduled amortization, on 673 first avenue until one year prior to its maturity date without the same consent. in addition, we are obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to refinance this mortgage prior to its maturity date in an amount not less than the principal amount outstanding on the maturity date. with respect to 673 first avenue, mr. green controls at least 75% of the units whose approval is necessary. finally, during this period, we may not incur debt secured by this property if the amount of our new debt would exceed the greater of 75% of the value of the property securing the debt or the amount of existing debt being refinanced plus associated costs. the maturity date for the mortgage loan for 673 first avenue is february 11, 2013. in addition, on may 15, 2002, we acquired the property located at 1515 broadway, new york, new york. under a tax protection agreement established to protect the limited partners of the partnership that transferred 1515 broadway to us, we have agreed not to take certain action that would adversely affect the limited partners' tax positions before december 31, 2011. we also acquired the property located at 220 east 42nd street, new york, new york, on february 13, 2003. we have agreed not to take certain action that would adversely affect the tax positions of certain of the partners who held interests in this property prior to the acquisition for a period of seven years, after the acquisition. we also acquired the property located at 625 madison avenue, new york, new york, on october 19, 2004 and have agreed not to take certain action that would adversely affect the tax positions of certain of the partners who held interests in this 15 property prior to the acquisition for a period of seven years after the acquisition. in connection with future acquisitions of interests in properties, we may agree to similar restrictions on our ability to sell or refinance the acquired properties with similar potential adverse consequences. we face potential conflicts of interest. members of management may have a conflict of interest over whether to enforce terms of agreements with entities in which senior management, directly or indirectly, has an interest. through alliance building services, or alliance, first quality maintenance, l.p., or first quality, provides cleaning, extermination and related services, classic security llc provides security services, bright star couriers llc provides messenger services, and onyx restoration works provides restoration services with respect to certain properties owned by us. alliance is owned by gary green, a son of stephen l. green, the chairman of our board of directors. our company and our tenants accounted for approximately 30% of alliance 2007 total revenue. the contracts pursuant to which these services are provided are not the result of arm's length negotiations and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the terms and conditions are not less favorable than those which could be obtained from third parties providing comparable services. in addition, to the extent that we choose to enforce our rights under any of these agreements, we may determine to pursue available remedies, such as actions for damages or injunctive relief, less vigorously than we otherwise might because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with the individual involved. members of management may have a conflict of interest over whether to enforce terms of senior management's employment and noncompetition agreements. stephen green, marc holliday, gregory f. hughes, andrew levine and andrew mathias entered into employment and noncompetition agreements with us pursuant to which they have agreed not to actively engage in the acquisition, development or operation of office real estate in the new york city metropolitan area. for the most part these restrictions apply to the executive both during his employment and for a period of time thereafter. each executive is also prohibited from otherwise disrupting or interfering with our business through the solicitation of our employees or clients or otherwise. to the extent that we choose to enforce our rights under any of these agreements, we may determine to pursue available remedies, such as actions for damages or injunctive relief, less vigorously than we otherwise might because of our desire to maintain our ongoing relationship with the individual involved. additionally, the non-competition provisions of these agreements despite being limited in scope and duration, could be difficult to enforce, or may be subject to limited enforcement, should litigation arise over them in the future. mr. green has interests in two properties in manhattan, which are exempt from the non-competition provisions of his employment and non-competition agreement. our failure to qualify as a reit would be costly. we believe we have operated in a manner to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes and intend to continue to so operate. many of these requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. the determination that we are a reit requires an analysis of factual matters and circumstances. these matters, some of which may not be totally within our control, can affect our qualification as a reit. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income must come from designated sources that are listed in the reit tax laws. we are also required to distribute to stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income excluding capital gains. the fact that we hold our assets through the operating partnership and its subsidiaries further complicates the application of the reit requirements. even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our reit status. furthermore, congress and the internal revenue service, which we refer to as the irs, might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified as a reit. if we fail to qualify as a reit, we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. also, unless the irs grants us relief under specific statutory provisions, we would remain disqualified as a reit for four years following the year we first failed to qualify. if we failed to qualify as a reit, we would have to pay significant income taxes and would therefore have less money available for investments or for distributions to stockholders. this would likely have a significant adverse effect on the value of our securities. in addition, the reit tax laws would no longer require us to make any distributions to stockholders. previously enacted tax legislation reduces tax rates for dividends paid by non-reit corporations. under certain previously enacted tax legislation, the maximum tax rate on dividends to individuals has generally been reduced from 38.6% to 15% (from january 1, 2003 through december 31, 2008). the reduction in rates on dividends is generally not applicable to dividends paid by a reit except in limited circumstances that we do not contemplate. although this legislation will not adversely affect the taxation of reits or dividends paid by reits, the favorable treatment of regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals to consider stock of non-reit corporations that pay dividends as relatively more attractive than stocks of reits. it is not possible to predict whether such a change in perceived relative value will occur or what the effect, if any, this legislation will have on the market price of our stock. 16 we are dependent on external sources of capital. because of distribution requirements imposed on us to qualify as a reit, it is not likely that we will be able to fund all future capital needs, including acquisitions, from income from operations. we therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. in addition, we anticipate having to raise money in the public equity and debt markets with some regularity and our ability to do so will depend upon the general conditions prevailing in these markets. at any time conditions may exist which effectively prevent us, and reits in general, from accessing these markets. moreover, additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of our stockholders' interests, and additional debt financing may substantially increase our leverage. we face significant competition for tenants. the leasing of real estate is highly competitive. the principal means of competition are rent charged, location, services provided and the nature and condition of the facility to be leased. we directly compete with all lessors and developers of similar space in the areas in which our properties are located. demand for retail space has been impacted by the recent bankruptcy of a number of retail companies and a general trend toward consolidation in the retail industry, which could adversely affect the ability of our company to attract and retain tenants. our commercial office properties are concentrated in highly developed areas of midtown manhattan and certain suburban central business districts, or cbd s. manhattan is the largest office market in the united states. the number of competitive office properties in manhattan and cbd in which our suburban properties are located (which may be newer or better located than our properties) could have a material adverse effect on our ability to lease office space at our properties, and on the effective rents we are able to charge. loss of our key personnel could harm our operations. we are dependent on the efforts of stephen l. green, the chairman of our board of directors and an executive officer, marc holliday, our chief executive officer, andrew mathias, our president and chief investment officer and gregory f. hughes, our chief operating officer and chief financial officer. a loss of the services of any of these individuals could adversely affect our operations. our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. despite system redundancy, the implementation of security measures and the existence of a disaster recovery plan for our internal information technology systems, our systems are vulnerable to damages from any number of sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication failures. any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business. we may also incur additional costs to remedy damages caused by such disruptions. compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses, affect our operations and affect our reputation. changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and new sec regulations and new york stock exchange rules, are creating uncertainty for public companies. these new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. we are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. as a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. in particular, our efforts to comply with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors' audit of that assessment has required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. in addition, it has become more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. we expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. further, our directors, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. as a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified directors and executive officers, which could harm our business. if our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. 17 forward-looking statements may prove inaccurate see item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations forward-looking information for additional disclosure regarding forward-looking statements.