risk factors 9 risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. cyclicality in the semiconductor industry may adversely affect our results of operations historically, the semiconductor industry has been cyclical and subject to significant and often rapid increases and decreases in demand for products and services. these changes could have adverse effects on our results of operations and on the market price of our common stock. the results of our operations may be adversely affected if demand for our products and services decreases or if we are unable to meet an increase in demand without significantly increasing the lead-time for the delivery of our products and services. incorrect forecasts, reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products could adversely affect our results of operations as is customary in the semiconductor industry, customer orders may be canceled in most cases without penalty to the customers. some customers place orders that require us to manufacture products and have them available for shipment, even though the customer may be unwilling to make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the products. in other cases, we manufacture products based on forecasts of customer demands. as a result, we may incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales and are subject to the risk of cancellations of orders, potentially leading to an initial inflation of backlog followed by a sharp reduction. in addition, backlog includes orders from domestic distributors for which revenues are not recognized until the ordered products are sold by the distributors. because of the possibility of order cancellation, backlog should not be used as a measure of future revenues. furthermore, orders or forecasts may be for products meeting the customer's unique requirements such that those canceled or unrealized orders may also result in an inventory of unsaleable products, causing potential inventory write-offs. as a result of lengthy manufacturing cycles for certain of the products, the amount of unsaleable products could be substantial. as a result, incorrect forecasts, reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products could adversely affect our operating results. our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions the economic environment could subject us to increased credit risk should customers be unable to pay us, or delay paying us, for previously purchased products. accordingly, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. in addition, weakness in the market for end users of our products could harm the cash flow of our distributors and resellers who could then delay paying their obligations to us or experience other financial difficulties. this would further increase our credit risk exposure and, potentially, cause delays in our recognition of revenue on sales to these customers. if economic or market conditions deteriorate globally, in the united states or in other key markets, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. political conditions could materially affect our revenues and results of operations we are subject to the political and legal risks inherent in international operations. exposure to political instabilities, different business policies and varying legal standards could impact economic activity, which in turn could lead to a contraction of customer demand or a disruption in our operations. we have been impacted by these problems in the past, but none have materially affected our results of operations. problems in the future or not-yet-materialized consequences of past problems could affect deliveries of our products to our customers, possibly resulting in substantially delayed or lost sales and/or increased expenses that cannot be passed on to customers. our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which could adversely impact our common stock price we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. our operating results have in the past been, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly fluctuations as a result of numerous factors, some of which may contribute to more pronounced fluctuations in an uncertain global economic environment. these factors include, but are not limited to, the following: fluctuations in demand for our products and services; loss of a significant customer or significant customers electing to purchase from another supplier; 9 reduced visibility into our customers' spending plans and associated revenue; the level of price and competition in our product markets; our pricing practices, including our use of available information to maximize pricing potential; the impact of the uncertain economic and credit environment on our customers, channel partners, and suppliers, including their ability to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures; the overall movement toward industry consolidations among our customers and competitors; below industry-average growth of the non-consumer segments of our business; announcements and introductions of new products by us or our competitors; deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements (introduced by us or our competitors); our ability to meet increases in customer orders in a timely manner; striking an appropriate balance between short-term execution and long-term innovation; our ability to develop, introduce, and market new products and enhancements and market acceptance of such new products and enhancements; and our levels of operating expenses. our products may fail to meet new industry standards or requirements and the efforts to meet such industry standards or requirements could be costly many of our products are based on industry standards that are continually evolving. our ability to compete in the future will depend on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with these evolving industry standards. the emergence of new industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major systems manufacturers. as a result, we could be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards or requirements, we could miss opportunities to achieve crucial design wins which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial results. our critical information systems, necessary for the operation of our business, are subject to interruptions and failures we maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. these information systems include telecommunications, the internet, our corporate intranet, various computer hardware and software applications, network communications and e-mail. these information systems may be owned by us or by our outsource providers or even third parties such as vendors and contractors and may be maintained by us or by such providers or third parties. these information systems are subject to attacks, including attacks that may result in theft of our intellectual property, failures and access denials from a number of potential sources including viruses, destructive or inadequate code, power failures and physical damage to computers, hard drives, communication lines and networking equipment. to the extent that these information systems are under our control, we have implemented security procedures, such as virus protection software and emergency recovery processes, to address the outlined risks; however, security procedures for information systems cannot be guaranteed to be failsafe and our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time could unfavorably impact the timely and efficient operation of our business. we may encounter difficulties in the implementation of a new manufacturing execution system, which may adversely affect our operations and financial reporting we are in the process of implementing a new manufacturing execution system ( mes ) in our testing facilities that is scheduled to be completed by the end of fiscal year 2013 as part of our ongoing efforts to improve the quality and productivity of our operations. in addition, we are in process of implementing a global execution system ( ges ) that is scheduled to begin implementation in fiscal year 2013 as part of our efforts to integrate inventory movement with our financial reporting system. any difficulties in the implementation or operation of the mes could increase the cost to test our products or disrupt the testing of our products. such developments could materially adversely affect our results of operation and financial reporting. our manufacturing operations may be interrupted or suffer yield problems given the nature of our products, it would be time consuming, difficult, and costly to arrange for new manufacturing facilities to supply such products. any prolonged inability to utilize one of our manufacturing facilities or a third party foundry, due to damages resulting from fire, natural disaster, unavailability of electric power, labor unrest or other causes, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 10 the manufacture and design of integrated circuits is highly complex. we may experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields or experience product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, capacity constraints, equipment malfunctioning, construction delays, upgrading or expanding existing facilities, changing our process technologies, or new technology qualification delays, particularly in our internal fabrication facilities, any of which could result in a loss of future revenues or increases in fixed costs. to the extent we do not achieve acceptable manufacturing yields or we experience delays in wafer fabrication, our results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, operating expenses related to increases in production capacity may adversely affect our operating results if revenues do not increase proportionately. our independent distributors and sales representatives may terminate their relationship with us or fail to make payments on outstanding accounts receivable to us, which would adversely affect our financial results a portion of our sales is realized through independent electronics distributors that are not under our direct control. these independent sales organizations generally represent product lines offered by several companies and thus could reduce their sales efforts applied to our products or terminate their representation of us. we require certain foreign distributors to provide a letter of credit to us in an amount up to the credit limit set for accounts receivable from such foreign distributors. the letter of credit provides for collection on accounts receivable from the foreign distributor should the foreign distributor default on their accounts receivable to us. where credit limits have been established above the amount of the letter of credit, we are exposed for the difference. we do not require letters of credit from any of our domestic distributors and are not contractually protected against accounts receivable default or bankruptcy by these distributors. the inability to collect open accounts receivable could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. termination of a significant distributor, whether at our or the distributor's initiative, could be disruptive to our current business. our operating results may be adversely affected by increased competition we experience intense competition from a number of companies, some of which have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, and marketing resources than us, as well as greater technical resources and proprietary intellectual property rights than us. the principal elements of competition include product performance, functional value, quality and reliability, technical service and support, price, diversity of product line, sale of multiple chips for a price as part of a complete system solution and delivery capabilities. we believe we compete favorably with respect to these factors, although we may be at a disadvantage in comparison to larger companies with broader product lines and greater technical service and support capabilities. we may be unable to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors and our operating results may be adversely affected by increased competition. we are dependent on a few large customers and market segments for a substantial portion of our revenues, the loss of which could materially affect our revenues and results of operations we depend on a few large customers and market segments for a substantial portion of our net revenues. samsung, our largest single customer, accounted for approximately 20%, 12% and 12% of net revenues in fiscal years 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. the loss of all or a substantial portion of our sales to any of these large customers or market segments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. our dependence on subcontractors for assembly, test, freight, and logistic services and certain manufacturing services may cause delays beyond our control in delivering products to our customers we rely on subcontractors located in various parts of the world for assembly and csp packaging services, freight and logistic services, wafer fabrication and sorting and testing services. none of the subcontractors we currently use are affiliated with us. reliability problems experienced by our subcontractors or the inability to promptly replace any subcontractor could cause serious problems in delivery and quality resulting in potential product liability to us. such problems could impair our ability to meet our revenue plan in the fiscal year period impacted by the disruption. failure to meet the revenue plan may materially adversely impact our results of operations. any disruptions in our sort, assembly, test, freight and logistic operations or in the operations of our subcontractors, including, but not limited to, the inability or unwillingness of any of our subcontractors to produce or timely deliver adequate supplies of processed wafers, integrated circuit packages or tested products conforming to our quality standards, or other required products or services could damage our reputation, relationships and goodwill with customers. furthermore, finding alternate sources of supply or initiating internal wafer processing for these products may not be economically feasible. 11 shortage of raw materials or supply disruption of such raw materials could harm our business the semiconductor industry has experienced a large expansion of fabrication capacity and production worldwide over time. as a result of increasing demand from semiconductor, solar and other manufacturers, availability of certain basic materials and supplies, such as raw wafers and silicon on insulator wafers, chemicals, gases, polysilicon, silicon wafers, ultra-pure metals, lead frames and molding compounds, and of subcontract services, like epitaxial growth, ion implantation and assembly of integrated circuits into packages, has been limited from time to time over the past several years, and could come into short supply again if overall industry demand exceeds the supply of these materials and services in the future. we purchase materials and supplies from many suppliers, some of which are sole-sourced. if the availability of these materials and supplies is interrupted, we may not be able to find suitable replacements. in addition, from time to time natural disasters can lead to a shortage of some of the above materials due to disruption of the manufacturer's production. we continually strive to maintain availability of all required materials, supplies and subcontract services. however, we do not have long-term agreements providing for all of these materials, supplies and services, and shortages could occur as a result of capacity limitations or production constraints on suppliers that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our production requirements. environmental liabilities could force us to expend significant capital and incur substantial costs various foreign and domestic federal, state, and local government agencies impose a variety of environmental regulations on the storage, handling, use, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals, gases and other substances used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process. historically, compliance with these regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive or financial position. there can be no assurance, however, that interpretation and enforcement of current or future environmental regulations will not impose costly requirements upon us. any failure by us to adequately control the storage, handling, use, discharge or disposal of regulated substances could result in fines, suspension of production, alteration of wafer fabrication processes and legal liability, which may materially adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. we may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may impact our ability to compete effectively we rely upon know-how, trade secrets, and patents to develop and maintain our competitive position. there can be no assurance that others will not develop or patent similar technology or reverse engineer our products or that the confidentiality agreements upon which we rely will be adequate to protect our interests. moreover, the laws of some foreign countries generally do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the united states, and we may encounter problems in protecting our proprietary rights in those foreign countries. other companies have obtained patents covering a variety of semiconductor designs and processes, and we could be required to obtain licenses under some of these patents or be precluded from making and selling the infringing products, if such patents are valid and other design and manufacturing solutions are not available. there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain licenses, if required, upon commercially reasonable terms or at all. we may suffer losses and business interruption if our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others in the past, it has been common in the semiconductor industry for patent holders to offer licenses on reasonable terms and rates. although the practice of offering licenses appears to be generally continuing, in some situations, typically where the patent directly relates to a specific product or family of products, patent holders have refused to grant licenses. in any of those cases, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain any necessary license on terms acceptable to us, if at all, or that we would be able to re-engineer our products or processes in a cost effective manner to avoid infringement. any litigation in such a situation could involve an injunction to prevent the sales of a material portion of our products, the reduction or elimination of the value of related inventories and the assessment of a substantial monetary award for damages related to past sales, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we may experience losses related to intellectual property indemnity claims we provide intellectual property indemnification for certain customers, distributors, suppliers and subcontractors for attorney fees and damages and costs awarded against these parties in certain circumstances in which our products are alleged to infringe third party intellectual property rights, including patents, registered trademarks and copyrights. in certain cases, there are limits on and exceptions to our potential liability for indemnification relating to intellectual property infringement claims. we cannot estimate the amount of potential future payments, if any, that we might be required to make as a result of these agreements. to date, we have not been required to pay significant amounts for intellectual property indemnification claims. however, there can be no assurance that we will not have significant financial exposure under those intellectual property indemnification obligations in the 12 future. business interruptions from natural disasters could harm our business we operate our business in worldwide locations. some of our facilities and those of our subcontractors are located in geologically unstable areas of the world and are susceptible to damage from natural disasters. in the event of a natural disaster, we may suffer a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our results of operations. our financial condition, operations and liquidity may be materially adversely affected in the event of a catastrophic loss for which we are self-insured we are primarily self-insured with respect to many of our commercial risks and exposures. based on management's assessment and judgment, we have determined that it is generally more cost effective to self-insure these risks. the risks and exposures we self-insure include, but are not limited to, fire, property and casualty, natural disasters, product defects, political risk, general liability, theft, counterfeits, patent infringement, certain employment practice matters and medical benefits for many of our domestic (united states) employees. we also maintain insurance contracts with independent insurance companies that provide certain of our employees with health (medical and dental) benefits, worker's compensation coverage, long-term disability income coverage, life insurance coverage and fiduciary insurance coverage for employee and company funds invested under the employee retirement income and security act. in addition, we maintain officer and director liability coverage and certain property insurance contracts with independent insurance companies. should there be catastrophic loss from events such as fires, explosions or earthquakes or other natural disasters, among many other risks, or adverse court or similar decisions in any area in which we are self-insured, our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be materially adversely affected. limitations in manufacturing capacity or delays in lead-time for delivery of products could adversely affect our future growth opportunities and results of operations limitations in manufacturing capacity and other supply constraints could impede our ability to grow revenues and meet increased customer demands for our products. our results of operations may be adversely affected if we fail to meet such increase in demand for our products without significantly increasing the lead-time required for our delivery of such products. any significant increase in the lead-time for delivery of products may negatively affect our customer relationships, reputation as a dependable supplier of products and ability to obtain future design wins, while potentially increasing order cancellations, aged, unsaleable or otherwise unrealized backlog, and the likelihood of our breach of supply agreement terms. any of the foregoing factors could negatively affect our future revenue growth and results of operations. we are subject to warranty claims and product liability we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability suits in connection with reliability problems or other product defects that may affect our customers. our products are used by a variety of industries, including the transportation and medical industries. failure of our products to perform to specifications, or other product defects, could lead to substantial damage to both the end product in which our device has been placed and to the user of such end product. although we take measures to protect against product defects, if a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and any adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we manufacture and sell products into many global jurisdictions where our efforts to contractually limit liability for certain damages, including consequential, indirect and non-proximately caused damages, may not be enforceable or may be found by a court to not apply in a particular situation. likewise, as we continue to partner with certain customers we may be required to accept increasing exposure for liability, including product liability. we believe these relationships with key customers will continue to increase. while we attempt to structure our customer relationships to reduce such exposures, it is not always possible to limit or eliminate such liability. should we choose to not enter into such relationships or limit the number of such relationships due to our inability to negotiate acceptable limits on liability, our revenues and financial operations could be materially adversely affected. we may be liable for additional production costs and lost revenues to certain customers with whom we have entered into customer supply agreements if we are unable to meet certain product quantity and quality requirements we enter into contracts with certain customers whereby we commit to supply quantities of specified parts at a predetermined scheduled delivery date. the number of such arrangements continues to increase as this practice becomes more commonplace. should we be unable to supply the customer with the specific part at the quantity and product quality desired and on the scheduled delivery date, the customer may incur additional production costs. in addition, the customer may lose revenues due to a delay in 13 receiving the parts necessary to have the end-product ready for sale to its customers or due to product quality issues. under certain customer supply agreements, we may be liable for direct additional production costs or lost revenues. if products are not shipped on time or are quality deficient, we may be liable for penalties and resulting damages. such liability, should it arise, and/or our inability to meet these commitments to our customers may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could damage our relationships, reputation and goodwill with the affected customers. we may pursue acquisitions and investments that could harm our operating results and may disrupt our business impairment of goodwill poses a financial risk for failed acquisitions. we have made and will continue to consider making strategic business investments, alliances and acquisitions we consider necessary or desirable to gain access to key technologies that we believe will augment our existing technical capability and support our business model objectives. acquisitions, alliances and investments involve risks and uncertainties that may negatively impact our future financial performance. if integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or suffer other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee. we may also need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. any of the foregoing, and other, factors could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability from acquired businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of acquisitions. in addition, because acquisitions of high technology companies are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. if we fail to enter into future vendor managed inventory arrangements or fail to supply the specific product or quantity under such arrangements, the results of our operations and financial condition may be materially adversely impacted we enter into arrangements with certain original equipment manufacturers ("oems") and electronic manufacturing services ("ems") partners to consign quantities of certain products within close proximity of the oems and ems partners' manufacturing location. the inventory is physically segregated at these locations and we retain title and risk of loss related to this inventory until such time as the oem or ems partner pulls the inventory for use in its manufacturing process. once the inventory is pulled by the oem or ems partner, title and risk of loss pass to the customer, at which point we relieve inventory and recognize revenue and the related cost of goods sold. the specific quantities to be consigned are based on a forecast provided by the oem or ems partner. generally, the arrangements with the oems and ems partners provide for transfer of title and risk of loss once product has been consigned for a certain length of time. we believe these arrangements will continue to grow in terms of number of customers and products and will increase in proportion to consolidated net revenues. should we be unable or unwilling to enter into such agreements as requested by oems or ems partners, our results of operations may be materially adversely impacted. in addition, should we be unable to supply the specific product in the quantity needed by the oem or ems partner as reflected in their forecast, we may be liable for damages, including, but not limited to, lost revenues and increased production costs which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. should we supply product in excess of the oem or ems partners actual usage, any inventory not consumed may become excess or obsolete, which would result in an inventory write off that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. our stock price may be volatile the market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly. in the future, the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to general economic and market conditions and in response to quarter-to-quarter variations including, but not limited to, the following: our anticipated or actual results of operations; announcements or introductions of new products by us or our competitors; anticipated or actual operating results of our customers, peers or competitors; technological innovations or setbacks by us or our competitors; conditions in our four major markets; the commencement or outcome of litigation or governmental investigations; change in ratings and estimates of our performance by securities analysts; announcements of merger, acquisition or divestiture transactions; dividend changes; changes in our capital structure, including any decision we make in regard to the repurchase of our common stock; 14 management changes; supply constraints; semiconductor industry cyclicality; our inclusion in certain stock indices; our ability to maintain compliance with the sec reporting requirements; and other events or factors beyond our control. the market prices and trading volumes of many high technology companies, including semiconductor companies, are subject to volatility due to a variety of microeconomic, macroeconomic, and other factors. in some instances, these fluctuations can be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. any such fluctuation could harm the market price of our common stock. our ability to service our debt obligations, including $300 million of senior unsecured notes, requires sufficient cash flow from our future operations in june 2010, the company issued $300 million in senior, unsecured debt due in 2013 with an effective interest rate of 3.49% . interest is payable semi-annually on december 14 and june 14. the debt indenture includes covenants that limit the company's ability to grant liens on its facilities and to enter into sale and leaseback transactions, which could limit the company's ability to secure debt funding in the future. in circumstances involving a change of control of the company followed by a downgrade of the rating of the company's notes, the company would be required to make an offer to repurchase these notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. the company's ability to repurchase the notes in such events may be limited by the company's then-available financial resources or by the terms of other agreements to which the company is a party. although the company currently has the funds necessary to retire this debt, funds might not be available to repay the notes when they become due in the future. if the company fails to pay interest when due, fails to repay the notes when due or materially breaches other loan covenants, it would constitute an event of default under the indenture governing the notes which, in turn, may also constitute an event of default under other obligations of the company. any event of default under the indenture or other obligations of the company and any additional obligations and restrictions imposed as a result thereof could negatively impact our financial results. our financial results may be adversely affected by increased tax rates and exposure to additional tax liabilities a number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including, but not limited to: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; recent changes in our global structure that involve an increased investment in technology outside of the united states to better align asset ownership and business functions with revenues and profits; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and the repatriation of non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. we are subject to taxation in various countries and jurisdictions. significant judgment is required to determine tax liabilities on a worldwide basis. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. we may be materially adversely affected by currency fluctuations or changes in trade policies we conduct our manufacturing and other operations in various worldwide locations. a portion of our operating costs and expenses at foreign locations are paid in local currencies. many of the materials used in our products and much of the manufacturing process for our products are supplied by foreign companies or by our foreign operations, such as our test operations in the philippines and thailand. approximately 88% , 85% and 85% of our net revenues in fiscal years 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively, were from 15 international sales. accordingly, both manufacturing and sales of our products may be adversely affected by political or economic conditions abroad. in addition, various forms of protectionist trade legislation are routinely proposed in the united states and certain foreign countries. a change in current tariff structures or other trade policies could adversely affect our foreign manufacturing or marketing strategies. currency exchange fluctuations could also decrease revenue and increase our operating costs, the cost of components manufactured abroad, and the cost of our products to foreign customers, or decrease the costs of products produced by our foreign competitors. we are subject to a variety of domestic and international laws and regulations, including the u.s. customs and export regulations among other laws and regulations, we are subject to u.s. customs and export regulations, including u.s. international traffic and arms regulations and similar laws, which collectively control import, export and sale of technologies by companies and various other aspects of the operation of our business. failure to comply with such laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal enforcement, including monetary fines and possible injunctions against shipment of product or other activities of the company, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, or fail to efficiently implement management organizational changes, our business may be harmed our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our chief executive officer, our other executive officers, and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers and business unit managers, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel and our ability to identify and appropriately handle under- performing personnel. the loss of the services of one or several of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on us. in addition, there could be a material adverse effect on us should the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increase significantly or should we be unable to continue to attract, motivate and retain qualified personnel through economic and other incentives or through other means. should we lose one or more engineers who are key to a project's completion during the course of a particular project, the project's completion may be delayed. such a delay could negatively affect customer relationships and goodwill and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. further, we periodically implement changes to the organization of our management. failure to implement such changes efficiently could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation. our certificate of incorporation contains certain anti-takeover provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a hostile change in control of our company our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to authorize the issuance of up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences and privileges and restrictions applicable to such shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. any such issuance might discourage, delay or prevent a hostile change in control of our company. generally accepted accounting principles require us to utilize estimates which may lead to volatility in reported earnings and balances the preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. such estimates relate to the useful lives and fair value of fixed assets, valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, reserves relating to uncertain tax positions, allowances for doubtful accounts, customer returns and allowances, inventory valuation, reserves relating to litigation matters, assumptions about the fair value of reporting units, goodwill and other intangibles impairment, accrued liabilities and reserves and assumptions related to the calculation of stock-based compensation. the company bases its estimates and judgments on its historical experience, knowledge of current conditions and its beliefs regarding what could occur in the future, given available information. actual results may differ from those estimates, and such differences may be material to the financial statements. additionally, new accounting pronouncements and guidance have been promulgated by the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) that require companies to regularly attempt to determine or estimate the fair value of certain assets and liabilities and adjust those amounts to reflect the revised estimates. recent pronouncements have broadened this trend to direct how to estimate and account for fair value measurements as well as give companies the option to apply fair value measurements more broadly to many financial assets and liabilities. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 30 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk the company's exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to the company's cash and cash equivalents, short term investments and notes payable. see note 5 "financial instruments" to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. the company does not use derivative financial instruments to hedge the risk of interest rate volatility. at 30 june 30, 2012 , the company maintained a significant portfolio of money market fund investments, which are included in cash and cash equivalents. these money market funds are all available on a daily basis. foreign currency risk the company generates revenues in various global markets based on orders obtained in non-u.s. currencies, primarily the japanese yen, the euro and the british pound. maxim incurs expenditures denominated in non-u.s. currencies, principally the philippine pesos and thai baht associated with the company's manufacturing activities in the philippines and thailand, respectively, and expenditures for sales offices and research and development activities undertaken outside of the u.s. maxim is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates primarily on orders and accounts receivable from sales in these foreign currencies and cash flows for expenditures in these foreign currencies. maxim has established risk management strategies designed to reduce the impact of volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in the exchange rate for these currencies. these strategies reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rates movements. maxim does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. the company routinely hedges its exposures to certain foreign currencies with various financial institutions in an effort to minimize the impact of certain currency exchange rate fluctuations. if a financial counterparty to any of the company's hedging arrangements experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of the foreign currency hedge, the company may experience financial losses. for derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges under asc no. 815- derivatives and hedging ("asc 815"), the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss and reclassified into earnings into the same financial statement line as the item being hedged, and in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. gains and losses on the derivative representing either hedge ineffectiveness or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in interest and other expense, net. for derivative instruments that are not designated as hedging instruments under asc 815, gains and losses are recognized in interest and other expense, net. all derivatives are foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain foreign currency denominated assets or liabilities. the gains and losses on these derivatives largely offset the changes in the fair value of the assets or liabilities being hedged. foreign exchange contracts the net unrealized gain or loss, if any, is potentially subject to market and credit risk as it represents appreciation (decline) of the hedge position against the spot exchange rates. the net realized and unrealized gains or losses from hedging foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities were immaterial during the year ended june 30, 2012 and june 25, 2011 .risk factors 9 risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also adversely affect our business. we are dependent on a few large customers and market segments for a substantial portion of our revenues, the loss of which could materially affect our revenues and results of operations we depend on a few large customers and market segments for a substantial portion of our net revenues. samsung, our largest single customer, accounted for approximately 28% , 20% and 12% of net revenues in fiscal years 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. the delay, significant reduction in, or loss of, orders from these large customers or market segments (including curtailments of purchases due to a change in the design, manufacturing or sourcing policies or practices of these customers or the timing of customer inventory adjustments) or demands of price concessions from these customers could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and results of operations. cyclicality in the semiconductor industry may adversely affect our results of operations historically, the semiconductor industry has been cyclical and subject to significant and often rapid increases and decreases in demand for products and services. our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if demand for our products and services decreases or if we are unable to meet an increase in demand without significantly increasing the lead-time for the delivery of our products and services. incorrect forecasts, reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products and volatility in customer demand could adversely affect our results of operations as is customary in the semiconductor industry, customer orders may be canceled in most cases without penalty to the customers. some customers place orders that require us to manufacture products and have them available for shipment, even though the customer may be unwilling to make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the products. in other cases, we manufacture products based on forecasts of customer demands. as a result, we may incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales and are subject to the risk of cancellations of orders, potentially leading to an initial inflation of backlog followed by a sharp reduction. in addition, backlog includes orders from domestic distributors for which revenues are not recognized until the ordered products are sold by the distributors. because of the possibility of order cancellation, backlog should not be used as a measure of future revenues. furthermore, canceled or unrealized orders, especially for products meeting unique customer requirements, may also result in an inventory of unsaleable products, causing potential inventory write-offs, some of which could be substantial. our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions the global economic environment could subject us to increased credit risk should customers be unable to pay us, or delay paying us, for previously purchased products. accordingly, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. in addition, weakness in the market for end users of our products could harm the cash flow of our distributors and resellers who could then delay paying their obligations to us or experience other financial difficulties. this would further increase our credit risk exposure and potentially cause delays in our recognition of revenue on sales to these customers. if economic or market conditions deteriorate globally, in the united states or in other key markets, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. our financial results may be adversely affected by increased tax rates and exposure to additional tax liabilities a number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including, but not limited to: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; changes in our global structure that involve an increased investment in technology outside of the united states to better align asset ownership and business functions with revenues and profits; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities, and in particular, the outcome of the pending internal revenue service audit of our tax returns for fiscal 2009-2011; 9 changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws; changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and the repatriation of non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. we are subject to taxation in various countries and jurisdictions. significant judgment is required to determine tax liabilities on a worldwide basis. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. political conditions could materially affect our revenues and results of operations we are subject to the political and legal risks inherent in international operations. exposure to political instabilities, different business policies and varying legal standards could impact economic activity, which in turn could lead to a contraction of customer demand or a disruption in our operations. we have been impacted by these problems in the past, but none have materially affected our results of operations. problems in the future or not-yet-materialized consequences of past problems could affect deliveries of our products to our customers, possibly resulting in substantially delayed or lost sales and/or increased expenses that cannot be passed on to customers. our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which could adversely impact our common stock price we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. our operating results have in the past been, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly fluctuations as a result of numerous factors, some of which may contribute to more pronounced fluctuations in an uncertain global economic environment. these factors include, but are not limited to, the following: fluctuations in demand for our products and services; loss of a significant customer or significant customers electing to purchase from another supplier; reduced visibility into our customers' spending plans and associated revenue; the level of price and competition in our product markets; our pricing practices, including our use of available information to maximize pricing potential; the impact of the uncertain economic and credit environment on our customers, channel partners, and suppliers, including their ability to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures; the overall movement toward industry consolidations among our customers and competitors; below industry-average growth of the non-consumer segments of our business; announcements and introductions of new products by our competitors; deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements (introduced by us or our competitors); our ability to meet increases in customer orders in a timely manner; striking an appropriate balance between short-term execution and long-term innovation; our ability to develop, introduce, and market new products and enhancements and market acceptance of such new products and enhancements; and our levels of operating expenses. our stock price may be volatile the market price of our common stock has fluctuated substantially in the past and is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. fluctuations have occurred and may continue to occur in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control. in addition, the market prices of securities of technology companies generally, including those in the semiconductor industry, have been and remain volatile. this volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. if our operating results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, who may derive their expectations by extrapolating data from recent historical 10 operating results, the market price of our common stock may decline. accordingly, you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at a price equal to or higher than the price you paid for them. due to the nature of our compensation programs, many of our executive officers sell shares of our common stock each quarter or otherwise periodically, including pursuant to trading plans established under rule 10b5-1 of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. regardless of the reasons for such sales, analysts and investors could view such actions in a negative light and the market price of our stock could be adversely affected as a result of such periodic sales. our independent distributors and sales representatives may terminate their relationship with us or fail to make payments on outstanding accounts receivable to us, which would adversely affect our financial results a portion of our sales is realized through independent electronics distributors that are not under our direct control. these independent sales organizations generally represent product lines offered by several companies and thus could reduce their sales efforts applied to our products or terminate their representation of us. in fiscal 2013, 31% of our revenues were generated from distributors, and 14% of our revenues were generated from avnet, our primary world-wide distributor. we require certain foreign distributors to provide a letter of credit to us in an amount up to the credit limit set for accounts receivable from such foreign distributors. the letter of credit provides for collection on accounts receivable from the foreign distributor should the foreign distributor default on their accounts receivable to us. where credit limits have been established above the amount of the letter of credit, we are exposed for the difference. we do not require letters of credit from any of our domestic distributors and are not contractually protected against accounts receivable default or bankruptcy by these distributors. the inability to collect open accounts receivable could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. termination of a significant distributor, whether at our or the distributor's initiative, could be disruptive and harmful to our current business. our products may fail to meet new industry standards or requirements and the efforts to meet such industry standards or requirements could be costly many of our products are based on industry standards that are continually evolving. our ability to compete in the future will depend on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with these evolving industry standards. the emergence of new industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major systems manufacturers. as a result, we could be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards or requirements, we could miss opportunities to achieve crucial design wins which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial results. our critical information systems, necessary for the operation of our business, are subject to interruptions and failures we maintain and rely upon certain critical information systems for the effective operation of our business. these information systems include telecommunications, the internet, our corporate intranet, various computer hardware and software applications, network communications and e-mail. these information systems may be owned by us or by our outsource providers or even third parties such as vendors and contractors and may be maintained by us or by such providers or third parties. these information systems are subject to attacks, including attacks that may result in theft of our intellectual property, failures and access denials from a number of potential sources including viruses, destructive or inadequate code, power failures and physical damage to computers, hard drives, communication lines and networking equipment. to the extent that these information systems are under our control, we have implemented security procedures, such as virus protection software and emergency recovery processes, to address the outlined risks; however, security procedures for information systems cannot be guaranteed to be failsafe and our inability to use or access these information systems at critical points in time could adversely impact the timely and efficient operation of our business. we may encounter difficulties in the implementation of a new manufacturing execution system and global execution system, which may adversely affect our operations and financial reporting we are in the process of implementing a new manufacturing execution system ( mes ) in our testing facilities that is scheduled to be completed in fiscal year 2014 as part of our ongoing efforts to improve the quality and productivity of our operations. in addition, we are in process of implementing a global execution system ( ges ) as part of our efforts to integrate inventory movement with our financial reporting system. any difficulties in the implementation or operation of the mes or ges could increase the cost to test our products or disrupt the testing of our products. such developments could materially adversely affect our results of operation and financial reporting. 11 our manufacturing operations may be interrupted or suffer yield problems given the nature of our products, it would be time consuming, difficult, and costly to arrange for new manufacturing facilities to supply such products. any prolonged inability to utilize one of our manufacturing facilities or a third party foundry, due to damages resulting from fire, natural disaster, unavailability of electric power, labor unrest or other causes, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. the manufacture and design of integrated circuits is highly complex. we may experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields or experience product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, capacity constraints, equipment malfunctioning, construction delays, upgrading or expanding existing facilities, changing our process technologies, or new technology qualification delays, particularly in our internal fabrication facilities, any of which could result in a loss of future revenues or increases in fixed costs. to the extent we do not achieve acceptable manufacturing yields or we experience delays in wafer fabrication, our results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, operating expenses related to increases in production capacity may adversely affect our operating results if revenues do not increase proportionately. our operating results may be adversely affected by increased competition or our inability to timely develop new products through our research and development efforts the marketplace for our products in constantly changing and we are required to make substantial ongoing investments in our research and development. we experience intense competition from a number of companies, some of which have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, and marketing resources than us, as well as greater technical resources and proprietary intellectual property rights than us. the principal elements of competition include product performance, functional value, quality and reliability, technical service and support, price, diversity of product line, sale of multiple chips for a price as part of a complete system solution and delivery capabilities. we believe we compete favorably with respect to these factors, although we may be at a disadvantage in comparison to companies with broader product lines, greater technical service and support capabilities and larger research and development budgets. we may be unable to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors and our operating results may be adversely affected by increased competition or our inability to timely develop new products to meet the needs of our customers. our dependence on subcontractors for assembly, test, freight, wafer fabrication and logistic services and certain manufacturing services may cause delays beyond our control in delivering products to our customers we rely on subcontractors located in various parts of the world for assembly and csp packaging services, freight and logistic services, wafer fabrication and sorting and testing services. none of the subcontractors we currently use are affiliated with us. reliability problems experienced by our subcontractors or the inability to promptly replace any subcontractor could cause serious problems in delivery and quality resulting in potential product liability to us. such problems could impair our ability to meet our revenue plan in the fiscal year period impacted by the disruption. failure to meet the revenue plan may materially adversely impact our results of operations. any disruptions in our sort, assembly, test, freight and logistic operations or in the operations of our subcontractors, including, but not limited to, the inability or unwillingness of any of our subcontractors to produce or timely deliver adequate supplies of processed wafers, integrated circuit packages or tested products conforming to our quality standards, or other required products or services could damage our reputation, relationships and goodwill with customers. furthermore, finding alternate sources of supply or initiating internal wafer processing for these products may not be economically feasible. shortage of raw materials or supply disruption of such raw materials could harm our business the semiconductor industry has experienced a large expansion of fabrication capacity and production worldwide over time. as a result of increasing demand from semiconductor, solar and other manufacturers, availability of certain basic materials and supplies, and of subcontract services, has been limited from time to time over the past several years, and could come into short supply again if overall industry demand exceeds the supply of these materials and services in the future. we purchase materials and supplies from many suppliers, some of which are sole-sourced. if the availability of these materials and supplies is interrupted, we may not be able to find suitable replacements. in addition, from time to time natural disasters can lead to a shortage of some materials due to disruption of the manufacturer's production. we continually strive to maintain availability of all required materials, supplies and subcontract services. however, we do not have long-term agreements providing for all of these materials, supplies and services, and shortages could occur as a result of capacity limitations or production constraints on suppliers that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our production requirements. 12 environmental, safety and health laws and regulations could force us to expend significant capital and incur substantial costs various foreign and domestic federal, state, and local government agencies impose a variety of environmental, safety and health laws and regulations on the storage, handling, use, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals, gases and other substances used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process. historically, compliance with these regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive or financial position. there can be no assurance, however, that interpretation and enforcement of current or future environmental, safety and health laws and regulations will not impose costly requirements upon us. any failure by us to adequately control the storage, handling, use, discharge or disposal of regulated substances could result in fines, suspension of production, alteration of wafer fabrication processes and legal liability, which may materially adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. employee health benefit costs may negatively impact our profitability with a large number of employees participating in our health benefit plans, our expenses relating to employee health benefits are substantial. in past years, we have experienced significant increases in certain of these costs, largely as a result of economic factors beyond our control, including, in particular, ongoing increases in health care costs well in excess of the rate of inflation. while we have attempted to control these costs in recent years, there can be no assurance that we will be as successful in controlling such costs in the future. continued increasing health care costs, as well as changes in laws, regulations and assumptions used to calculate health and benefit expenses, may adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. in addition, the patient protection and affordable care act as well as other healthcare reform legislation being considered by congress and state legislatures may increase our employee healthcare-related costs. while the most significant costs of the recent healthcare legislation enacted will not occur until after 2013 due to provisions of the legislation being phased in over time, changes to our healthcare costs structure could negatively impact our profitability. we may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may impact our ability to compete effectively we rely upon know-how, trade secrets, and patents to develop and maintain our competitive position. there can be no assurance that others will not develop or patent similar technology or reverse engineer our products or that the confidentiality agreements upon which we rely will be adequate to protect our interests. moreover, the laws of some foreign countries generally do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the united states, and we may encounter problems in protecting our proprietary rights in those foreign countries. other companies have obtained patents covering a variety of semiconductor designs and processes, and we could be required to obtain licenses under some of these patents or be precluded from making and selling the infringing products, if such patents are valid and other design and manufacturing solutions are not available. there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain licenses, if required, upon commercially reasonable terms or at all. we may suffer losses and business interruption if our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others in the past, it has been common in the semiconductor industry for patent holders to offer licenses on reasonable terms and rates. although the practice of offering licenses appears to be generally continuing, in some situations, typically where the patent directly relates to a specific product or family of products, patent holders have refused to grant licenses. in any of those cases, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain any necessary license on terms acceptable to us, if at all, or that we would be able to re-engineer our products or processes in a cost effective manner to avoid infringement. any litigation in such a situation could involve an injunction to prevent the sales of a material portion of our products, the reduction or elimination of the value of related inventories and the assessment of a substantial monetary award for damages related to past sales, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we may experience losses related to intellectual property indemnity claims we provide intellectual property indemnification for certain customers, distributors, suppliers and subcontractors for attorney fees and damages and costs awarded against these parties in certain circumstances in which our products are alleged to infringe third party intellectual property rights, including patents, registered trademarks and copyrights. in certain cases, there are limits on and exceptions to our potential liability for indemnification relating to intellectual property infringement claims. we cannot estimate the amount of potential future payments, if any, that we might be required to make as a result of these agreements. to date, we have not been required to pay significant amounts for intellectual property indemnification claims. however, there can be no assurance that we will not have significant financial exposure under those intellectual property indemnification obligations in the future. 13 business interruptions from natural disasters could harm our ability to produce products we operate our business in worldwide locations. some of our facilities and those of our subcontractors are located in geologically unstable areas of the world and are susceptible to damage from natural disasters. in the event of a natural disaster, we may suffer a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our results of operations. our financial condition, operations and liquidity may be materially adversely affected in the event of a catastrophic loss for which we are self-insured we are primarily self-insured with respect to many of our commercial risks and exposures. based on management's assessment and judgment, we have determined that it is generally more cost effective to self-insure these risks. the risks and exposures we self-insure include, but are not limited to, fire, property and casualty, natural disasters, product defects, political risk, general liability, theft, counterfeits, patent infringement, certain employment practice matters and medical benefits for many of our u.s. employees. should there be catastrophic loss from events such as fires, explosions or earthquakes or other natural disasters, among many other risks, or adverse court or similar decisions in any area in which we are self-insured, our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be materially adversely affected. limitations in manufacturing capacity or delays in lead-time for delivery of products could adversely affect our future growth opportunities and results of operations limitations in manufacturing capacity and other supply constraints could impede our ability to grow revenues and meet increased customer demands for our products. our results of operations may be adversely affected if we fail to meet such increase in demand for our products without significantly increasing the lead-time required for our delivery of such products. any significant increase in the lead-time for delivery of products may negatively affect our customer relationships, reputation as a dependable supplier of products and ability to obtain future design wins, while potentially increasing order cancellations, aged, unsaleable or otherwise unrealized backlog, and the likelihood of our breach of supply agreement terms. any of the foregoing factors could negatively affect our future revenue growth and results of operations. our results of operations could be adversely affected by warranty claims and product liability we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability suits in connection with reliability problems or other product defects that may affect our customers. our products are used by a variety of industries, including the transportation and medical industries. failure of our products to perform to specifications, or other product defects, could lead to substantial damage to both the end product in which our device has been placed and to the user of such end product. although we take measures to protect against product defects, if a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and any adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we manufacture and sell products into many global jurisdictions where our efforts to contractually limit liability for certain damages, including consequential, indirect and non-proximately caused damages, may not be enforceable or may be found by a court to not apply in a particular situation. likewise, as we continue to partner with certain customers we may be required to accept increasing exposure for liability, including product liability. we believe these relationships with key customers will continue to increase. while we attempt to structure our customer relationships to reduce such exposures, it is not always possible to limit or eliminate such liability. should we choose to not enter into such relationships or limit the number of such relationships due to our inability to negotiate acceptable limits on liability, our revenues and financial operations could be materially adversely affected. we may be liable for additional production costs and lost revenues to certain customers with whom we have entered into customer supply agreements if we are unable to meet certain product quantity and quality requirements we enter into contracts with certain customers whereby we commit to supply quantities of specified parts at a predetermined scheduled delivery date. the number of such arrangements continues to increase as this practice becomes more commonplace. should we be unable to supply the customer with the specific part at the quantity and product quality desired and on the scheduled delivery date, the customer may incur additional production costs. in addition, the customer may lose revenues due to a delay in receiving the parts necessary to have the end-product ready for sale to its customers or due to product quality issues. under certain customer supply agreements, we may be liable for direct additional production costs or lost revenues. if products are not shipped on time or are quality deficient, we may be liable for penalties and resulting damages. such liability, should it arise, and/or our inability to meet these commitments to our customers may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could damage our relationships, reputation and goodwill with the affected customers. 14 we may pursue acquisitions and investments that could harm our operating results and may disrupt our business impairment of goodwill poses a financial risk for failed acquisitions. we have made and will continue to consider making strategic business investments, alliances and acquisitions we consider necessary or desirable to gain access to key technologies that we believe will complement our existing technical capability and support our business model objectives. acquisitions, alliances and investments involve risks and uncertainties that may negatively impact our future financial performance. if integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or suffer other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee. we may also need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. any of the foregoing, and other, factors could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability from acquired businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of acquisitions. in addition, because acquisitions of high technology companies are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. if we fail to enter into future vendor managed inventory arrangements or fail to supply the specific product or quantity under such arrangements, the results of our operations and financial condition may be materially adversely impacted we enter into arrangements with certain original equipment manufacturers ("oems") and electronic manufacturing services ("ems") partners to consign quantities of certain products within close proximity of the oems and ems partners' manufacturing location. the inventory is physically segregated at these locations and we retain title and risk of loss related to this inventory until such time as the oem or ems partner pulls the inventory for use in its manufacturing process. once the inventory is pulled by the oem or ems partner, title and risk of loss pass to the customer, at which point we relieve inventory and recognize revenue and the related cost of goods sold. the specific quantities to be consigned are based on a forecast provided by the oem or ems partner. generally, the arrangements with the oems and ems partners provide for transfer of title and risk of loss once product has been consigned for a certain length of time. we believe these arrangements will continue to grow in terms of number of customers and products and will increase in proportion to consolidated net revenues. should we be unable or unwilling to enter into such agreements as requested by oems or ems partners, our results of operations may be materially adversely impacted. in addition, should we be unable to supply the specific product in the quantity needed by the oem or ems partner as reflected in their forecast, we may be liable for damages, including, but not limited to, lost revenues and increased production costs which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. should we supply product in excess of the oem or ems partners actual usage, any inventory not consumed may become excess or obsolete, which would result in an inventory write off that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. our ability to service our debt obligations, including $500 million of senior unsecured notes, requires sufficient cash flow from our future operations in march 2013, the company issued $500 million of 3.38% senior unsecured notes due 2023. interest is payable semi-annually on march 15 and september 15. the debt indenture includes covenants that limit the company's ability to grant liens on its facilities and to enter into sale and leaseback transactions, which could limit the company's ability to secure debt funding in the future. in circumstances involving a change of control of the company followed by a downgrade of the rating of the company's notes, the company would be required to make an offer to repurchase these notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. the company's ability to repurchase the notes in such events may be limited by the company's then-available financial resources or by the terms of other agreements to which the company is a party. although the company currently has the funds necessary to retire this debt, funds might not be available to repay the notes when they become due in the future. if the company fails to pay interest when due, fails to repay the notes when due or materially breaches other loan covenants, it would constitute an event of default under the indenture governing the notes which, in turn, may also constitute an event of default under other obligations of the company. any event of default under the indenture or other obligations of the company and any additional obligations and restrictions imposed as a result thereof could negatively impact our financial results. 15 we may be materially adversely affected by currency fluctuations or changes in trade policies we conduct our manufacturing and other operations in various worldwide locations. a portion of our operating costs and expenses at foreign locations are paid in local currencies. many of the materials used in our products and much of the manufacturing process for our products are supplied by foreign companies or by our foreign operations, such as our test operations in the philippines and thailand. approximately 88% , 88% and 85% of our net revenues in fiscal years 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively, were from international sales. accordingly, both manufacturing and sales of our products may be adversely affected by political or economic conditions abroad. in addition, various forms of protectionist trade legislation are routinely proposed in the united states and certain foreign countries. a change in current tariff structures or other trade policies could adversely affect our foreign manufacturing or marketing strategies. currency exchange fluctuations could also decrease revenue and increase our operating costs, the cost of components manufactured abroad, and the cost of our products to foreign customers, or decrease the costs of products produced by our foreign competitors. we are subject to a variety of domestic and international laws and regulations, including u.s. customs and export regulations and the foreign corrupt practices act among other laws and regulations, we are subject to u.s. customs and export regulations, including u.s. international traffic and arms regulations and similar laws, which collectively control import, export and sale of technologies by companies and various other aspects of the operation of our business, and the foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws, which prohibit companies from making improper payments to government officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business. while our company policies and procedures mandate compliance with such laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees and agents will always act in strict compliance. failure to comply with such laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal enforcement, including monetary fines and possible injunctions against shipment of product or other activities of the company, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business may be harmed our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our chief executive officer, our other executive officers, and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers and business unit managers, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. the loss of the services of one or several of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our company. in addition, we could be materially adversely affected if the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increases significantly or we are unsuccessful in attracting, motivating and retaining qualified personnel. should we lose one or more engineers who are key to a project's completion during the course of a particular project, the completion of such project may be delayed which could negatively affect customer relationships and goodwill and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our certificate of incorporation contains certain anti-takeover provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a hostile change in control of our company our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to authorize the issuance of up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences and privileges and restrictions applicable to such shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. any such issuance might discourage, delay or prevent a hostile change in control of our company. generally accepted accounting principles require us to utilize estimates which may lead to volatility in reported earnings and balances the preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. such estimates relate to the useful lives and fair value of fixed assets, valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, reserves relating to uncertain tax positions, allowances for doubtful accounts, customer returns and allowances, inventory valuation, reserves relating to litigation matters, assumptions about the fair value of reporting units, goodwill and other intangibles impairment, accrued liabilities and reserves and assumptions related to the calculation of stock-based compensation. the company bases its estimates and judgments on its historical experience, knowledge of current conditions and beliefs regarding what could occur in the future, given available information. actual results may differ from those estimates, and such differences may be material to the financial statements. additionally, new accounting pronouncements and guidance have been promulgated by the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) that require companies to regularly attempt to determine or estimate the fair value of certain assets and liabilities and adjust those amounts to reflect the revised estimates. recent pronouncements have broadened 16 this trend to direct how to estimate and account for fair value measurements as well as give companies the option to apply fair value measurements more broadly to many financial assets and liabilities. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 30 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk the company's exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to the company's cash and cash equivalents, short term investments and notes payable. see note 5 "financial instruments" to the consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. the company does not use derivative financial instruments to hedge the risk of interest rate volatility. at june 29, 2013 , the company maintained a significant portfolio of money market fund investments, which are included in cash and cash equivalents. these money market funds are all available on a daily basis. foreign currency risk the company generates less than 5% of its revenues in various global markets based on orders obtained in non-u.s. currencies, primarily the japanese yen, the euro and the british pound. the company incurs expenditures denominated in non-u.s. currencies, principally the philippine peso and thai baht associated with the company's manufacturing activities in the philippines and thailand, respectively, and expenditures for sales offices and research and development activities undertaken outside of the u.s. 30 the company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates primarily on orders and accounts receivable from sales in these foreign currencies and cash flows for expenditures in these foreign currencies. the company has established risk management strategies designed to reduce the impact of volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in the exchange rate for these currencies. these strategies reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rates movements. the company does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. the company routinely hedges its exposures to certain foreign currencies with various financial institutions in an effort to minimize the impact of certain currency exchange rate fluctuations. if a financial counterparty to any of the company's hedging arrangements experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of the foreign currency hedge, the company may experience financial losses. for derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges under accounting standards codification ("asc") no. 815- derivatives and hedging , the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss and reclassified into earnings into the same financial statement line as the item being hedged, and in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. gains and losses on the derivative representing either hedge ineffectiveness or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in interest and other income (expense), net. for derivative instruments that are not designated as hedging instruments under asc no. 815, gains and losses are recognized in interest and other income (expense), net. all derivatives are foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain foreign currency denominated assets or liabilities. the gains and losses on these derivatives largely offset the changes in the fair value of the assets or liabilities being hedged. foreign exchange contracts the net unrealized gain or loss, if any, is potentially subject to market and credit risk as it represents appreciation (decline) of the hedge position against the spot exchange rates. the net realized and unrealized gains or losses from hedging foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities were immaterial during the year ended june 29, 2013 and june 30, 2012 .risk factors 9 risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also adversely affect our business. we are dependent on a few large customers and market segments for a substantial portion of our revenues, the loss of which could materially affect our revenues and results of operations we depend on a few large customers and market segments for a substantial portion of our net revenues. sales to samsung, our largest single end customer (through direct sales and distributors), accounted for approximately 20% , 28% and 20% of net revenues in fiscal years 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. in addition, our primary distributor is avnet electronics which accounted for 17% , 14% and 13% of our revenues in fiscal years 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. the delay, significant reduction in, or loss of, orders from these large customers or market segments (including curtailments of purchases due to a change in the design, manufacturing or sourcing policies or practices of these customers or the timing of customer inventory adjustments) or demands of price concessions from these customers could have a material adverse effect on our net revenues and results of operations. the sale of our products and our results of operations are dependent upon demand from the end markets of our customers the demand for our products is subject to the strength of the five major end-markets that we serve and to some extent the overall economic climate. we often experience decreases and increases in demand for our products primarily due to the end-market demand of our customers. our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if demand for our products decreases or if we are unable to meet an increase in demand without significantly increasing the lead-time for the delivery of our products. incorrect forecasts, reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products and volatility in customer demand could adversely affect our results of operations as is customary in the semiconductor industry, customer orders may be canceled in most cases without penalty to the customers. some customers place orders that require us to manufacture products and have them available for shipment, even though the customer may be unwilling to make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the products. in other cases, we manufacture products based on forecasts of customer demands. as a result, we may incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales and are subject to the risk of cancellations of orders, potentially leading to an initial inflation of backlog followed by a sharp reduction. in addition, backlog includes orders from domestic distributors for which revenues are not recognized until the ordered products are sold by the distributors. because of the possibility of order cancellation, backlog should not be used as a measure of future revenues. furthermore, canceled or unrealized orders, especially for products meeting unique customer requirements, may also result in an inventory of unsaleable products, causing potential inventory write-offs, some of which could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our gross margins and results of operations. if we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business may be harmed our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our chief executive officer, our other executive officers, and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers and business unit managers, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. the loss of the services of one or several of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our company. in addition, we could be materially adversely affected if the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increases significantly or we are unsuccessful in attracting, motivating and retaining qualified personnel. should we lose one or more engineers who are key to a project's completion during the course of a particular project, the completion of such project may be delayed which could negatively affect customer relationships and goodwill and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our operating results may be adversely affected by increased competition or our inability to timely develop new products through our research and development efforts the marketplace for our products in constantly changing and we are required to make substantial ongoing investments in our research and development. we experience intense competition from a number of companies, some of which have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, and marketing resources than us, as well as greater technical resources and proprietary intellectual property rights than us. the principal elements of competition include product performance, functional value, quality and reliability, technical service and support, price, diversity of product line, and sale of integrated system solutions which combine the functionality 9 of multiple chips on one chip for a price as part of a complete system solution and delivery capabilities. we believe we compete favorably with respect to these factors, although we may be at a disadvantage in comparison to companies with broader product lines, greater technical service and support capabilities and larger research and development budgets. we may be unable to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors and our operating results may be adversely affected by increased competition or our inability to timely develop new products to meet the needs of our customers. our products may fail to meet new industry standards or requirements and the efforts to meet such industry standards or requirements could be costly many of our products are based on industry standards that are continually evolving. our ability to compete in the future will depend on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with these evolving industry standards. the emergence of new industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major systems manufacturers. as a result, we could be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards or requirements, we could miss opportunities to achieve crucial design wins which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial results. our results of operations could be adversely affected by warranty claims and product liability we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability suits in connection with reliability problems or other product defects that may affect our customers. our products are used by a variety of industries, including the automotive and medical industries. failure of our products to perform to specifications, or other product defects, could lead to substantial damage to both the end product in which our device has been placed and to the user of such end product. although we take measures to protect against product defects, if a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and any adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we manufacture and sell products into many global jurisdictions where our efforts to contractually limit liability for certain damages, including consequential, indirect and non-proximately caused damages, may not be enforceable or may be found by a court to not apply in a particular situation. likewise, as we continue to partner with certain customers we may be required to accept increasing exposure for liability, including product liability. we believe these relationships with key customers will continue to increase. while we attempt to structure our customer relationships to reduce such exposures, it is not always possible to limit or eliminate such liability. should we choose to not enter into such relationships or limit the number of such relationships due to our inability to negotiate acceptable limits on liability, our revenues and financial operations could be materially adversely affected. we may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may impact our ability to compete effectively we rely upon know-how, trade secrets, and patents to develop and maintain our competitive position. there can be no assurance that others will not develop or patent similar technology or reverse engineer our products or that the confidentiality agreements upon which we rely will be adequate to protect our interests. moreover, the laws of some foreign countries generally do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the united states, and we may encounter problems in protecting our proprietary rights in those foreign countries. other companies have obtained patents covering a variety of semiconductor designs and processes, and we could be required to obtain licenses under some of these patents or be precluded from making and selling the infringing products, if such patents are valid and other design and manufacturing solutions are not available. there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain licenses, if required, upon commercially reasonable terms or at all. we may suffer losses and business interruption if our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others in the past, it has been common in the semiconductor industry for patent holders to offer licenses on reasonable terms and rates. although the practice of offering licenses appears to be generally continuing, in some situations, typically where the patent directly relates to a specific product or family of products, patent holders have refused to grant licenses. in any of those cases, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain any necessary license on terms acceptable to us, if at all, or that we would be able to re-engineer our products or processes in a cost effective manner to avoid infringement. any litigation in such a situation could involve an injunction to prevent the sales of a material portion of our products, the reduction or elimination of the value of related inventories and the assessment of a substantial monetary award for damages related to past sales, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 10 we may experience losses related to intellectual property indemnity claims we provide intellectual property indemnification for certain customers, distributors, suppliers and subcontractors for attorney fees and damages and costs awarded against these parties in certain circumstances in which our products are alleged to infringe third party intellectual property rights, including patents, registered trademarks and copyrights. in certain cases, there are limits on and exceptions to our potential liability for indemnification relating to intellectual property infringement claims. we cannot estimate the amount of potential future payments, if any, that we might be required to make as a result of these agreements. to date, we have not been required to pay significant amounts for intellectual property indemnification claims. however, there can be no assurance that we will not have significant financial exposure under those intellectual property indemnification obligations in the future. our manufacturing operations may be interrupted or suffer yield problems given the nature of our products, it would be time consuming, difficult, and costly to arrange for new manufacturing facilities to supply such products. any prolonged inability to utilize one of our manufacturing facilities or a third party foundry, due to damages resulting from fire, natural disaster, unavailability of electric power, labor unrest, political conditions or other causes, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. the manufacture and design of integrated circuits is highly complex. we may experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields or experience product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, capacity constraints, equipment malfunctioning, construction delays, upgrading or expanding existing facilities, changing our process technologies, or new technology qualification delays, particularly in our internal fabrication facilities, any of which could result in a loss of future revenues or increases in fixed costs. to the extent we do not achieve acceptable manufacturing yields or we experience delays in wafer fabrication, our results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, operating expenses related to increases in production capacity may adversely affect our operating results if revenues do not increase proportionately. our dependence on subcontractors for assembly, test, freight, wafer fabrication and logistic services and certain manufacturing services may cause delays beyond our control in delivering products to our customers we rely on subcontractors located in various parts of the world for assembly and csp packaging services, freight and logistic services, wafer fabrication and sorting and testing services. none of the subcontractors we currently use are affiliated with us. reliability problems experienced by our subcontractors or the inability to promptly replace any subcontractor could cause serious problems in delivery and quality resulting in potential product liability to us. such problems could impair our ability to meet our revenue plan in the fiscal year period impacted by the disruption. failure to meet the revenue plan may materially adversely impact our results of operations. any disruptions in our sort, assembly, test, freight and logistic operations or in the operations of our subcontractors, including, but not limited to, the inability or unwillingness of any of our subcontractors to produce or timely deliver adequate supplies of processed wafers, integrated circuit packages or tested products conforming to our quality standards, or other required products or services could damage our reputation, relationships and goodwill with customers. furthermore, finding alternate sources of supply or initiating internal wafer processing for these products may not be economically feasible. shortage of raw materials or supply disruption of such raw materials could harm our business the semiconductor industry has experienced a large expansion of fabrication capacity and production worldwide over time. as a result of increasing demand from semiconductor, solar and other manufacturers, availability of certain basic materials and supplies, and of subcontract services, has been limited from time to time over the past several years, and could come into short supply again if overall industry demand exceeds the supply of these materials and services in the future. we purchase materials and supplies from many suppliers, some of which are sole-sourced. if the availability of these materials and supplies is interrupted, we may not be able to find suitable replacements. in addition, from time to time natural disasters can lead to a shortage of some materials due to disruption of the manufacturer's production. we continually strive to maintain availability of all required materials, supplies and subcontract services. however, we do not have long-term agreements providing for all of these materials, supplies and services, and shortages could occur as a result of capacity limitations or production constraints on suppliers that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our production requirements. 11 limitations in manufacturing capacity or delays in lead-time for delivery of products could adversely affect our future growth opportunities and results of operations limitations in manufacturing capacity and other supply constraints could impede our ability to grow revenues and meet increased customer demands for our products. our results of operations may be adversely affected if we fail to meet such increase in demand for our products without significantly increasing the lead-time required for our delivery of such products. any significant increase in the lead-time for delivery of products may negatively affect our customer relationships, reputation as a dependable supplier of products and ability to obtain future design wins, while potentially increasing order cancellations, aged, unsaleable or otherwise unrealized backlog, and the likelihood of our breach of supply agreement terms. any of the foregoing factors could negatively affect our future revenue growth and results of operations. we may be liable for additional production costs and lost revenues to certain customers with whom we have entered into customer supply agreements if we are unable to meet certain product quantity and quality requirements we enter into contracts with certain customers whereby we commit to supply quantities of specified parts at a predetermined scheduled delivery date. the number of such arrangements continues to increase as this practice becomes more commonplace. should we be unable to supply the customer with the specific part at the quantity and product quality desired and on the scheduled delivery date, the customer may incur additional production costs. in addition, the customer may lose revenues due to a delay in receiving the parts necessary to have the end-product ready for sale to its customers or due to product quality issues. under certain customer supply agreements, we may be liable for direct additional production costs or lost revenues. if products are not shipped on time or are quality deficient, we may be liable for penalties and resulting damages. such liability, should it arise, and/or our inability to meet these commitments to our customers may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could damage our relationships, reputation and goodwill with the affected customers. if we fail to enter into future vendor managed inventory arrangements or fail to supply the specific product or quantity under such arrangements, the results of our operations and financial condition may be materially adversely impacted we enter into arrangements with certain original equipment manufacturers ( oems ) and electronic manufacturing services ( ems ) partners to consign quantities of certain products within close proximity of the oems and ems partners' manufacturing location. the inventory is physically segregated at these locations and we retain title and risk of loss related to this inventory until such time as the oem or ems partner pulls the inventory for use in its manufacturing process. once the inventory is pulled by the oem or ems partner, title and risk of loss pass to the customer, at which point we relieve inventory and recognize revenue and the related cost of goods sold. the specific quantities to be consigned are based on a forecast provided by the oem or ems partner. generally, the arrangements with the oems and ems partners provide for transfer of title and risk of loss once product has been consigned for a certain length of time. we believe these arrangements will continue to grow in terms of number of customers and products and will increase in proportion to consolidated net revenues. should we be unable or unwilling to enter into such agreements as requested by oems or ems partners, our results of operations may be materially adversely impacted. in addition, should we be unable to supply the specific product in the quantity needed by the oem or ems partner as reflected in their forecast, we may be liable for damages, including, but not limited to, lost revenues and increased production costs which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. should we supply product in excess of the oem or ems partners actual usage, any inventory not consumed may become excess or obsolete, which would result in an inventory write off that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. our critical information systems, necessary for the operation of our business, are subject to attacks, interruptions and failures we rely on several information technology systems throughout the company to provide products and services, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers, keep financial, employee and other records, and operate other critical functions. the company has and is in the process of developing several systems and procedures that include, among other things, ongoing internal risk assessments to identify vulnerabilities, the creation of an internal group dedicated to reviewing cybersecurity threats, and the adoption of an information security policy. despite our efforts to mitigate risks associated with cybersecurity events, our information technology systems may be susceptible to adaptive persistent threats ( apt ), catastrophic cybersecurity attacks, damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, computer malware and viruses, telecommunication failures, user errors, or other unforeseen events. risks associated with these threats include, but are not limited to, loss of intellectual property, impairment of our ability to conduct our operations, disruption of our customers' operations, loss or damage to our customer data delivery systems, and increased costs to prevent, respond to or mitigate catastrophic cybersecurity events. a prolonged systemic disruption in the information technology systems could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant 12 consequential costs, which could adversely affect our business. in addition, cybersecurity breaches of our information technology systems could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our customers, partners, suppliers, or employees which could result in our suffering significant financial or reputational damage. we may encounter difficulties in the implementation of a new global execution system, which may adversely affect our operations and financial reporting we are in the process of implementing in phases a new global execution system ( ges ) as part of our efforts to integrate inventory movement with our financial reporting system. any difficulties in the implementation or operation of ges could disrupt our supply chain execution. such developments could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial reporting. our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions the global economic environment could subject us to increased credit risk should customers be unable to pay us, or delay paying us, for previously purchased products. accordingly, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. in addition, weakness in the market for end users of our products could harm the cash flow of certain of our distributors and resellers who could then delay paying their obligations to us or experience other financial difficulties. this would further increase our credit risk exposure and potentially cause delays in our recognition of revenue on sales to these customers. if economic or market conditions deteriorate globally, in the united states or in other key markets, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which could adversely impact our common stock price we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. our operating results have in the past been, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly fluctuations as a result of numerous factors, some of which may contribute to more pronounced fluctuations in an uncertain global economic environment. these factors include, but are not limited to, the following: fluctuations in demand for our products and services; loss of a significant customer or significant customers electing to purchase from another supplier; reduced visibility into our customers' spending plans and associated revenue; the level of price and competition in our product markets; our pricing practices, including our use of available information to maximize pricing potential; the impact of the uncertain economic and credit environment on our customers, channel partners, and suppliers, including their ability to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures; the overall movement toward industry consolidations among our customers and competitors; below industry-average growth of the non-consumer segments of our business; announcements and introductions of new products by our competitors; deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements (introduced by us or our competitors); our ability to meet increases in customer orders in a timely manner; striking an appropriate balance between short-term execution and long-term innovation; our ability to develop, introduce, and market new products and enhancements and market acceptance of such new products and enhancements; and our levels of operating expenses. our stock price may be volatile the market price of our common stock may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. fluctuations have occurred and may continue to occur in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control. in addition, the market prices of securities of technology companies, including those in the semiconductor industry, generally have been and remain volatile. this volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. if our actual operating results or future forecasted results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, who may derive their expectations by extrapolating 13 data from recent historical operating results, the market price of our common stock may decline. accordingly, you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at a price equal to or higher than the price you paid for them. due to the nature of our compensation programs, some of our executive officers sell shares of our common stock each quarter or otherwise periodically, including pursuant to trading plans established under rule 10b5-1 of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. regardless of the reasons for such sales, analysts and investors could view such actions in a negative light and the market price of our stock could be adversely affected as a result of such periodic sales. our independent distributors and sales representatives may terminate their relationship with us or fail to make payments on outstanding accounts receivable to us, which would adversely affect our financial results a portion of our sales is realized through independent electronics distributors that are not under our direct control. these independent sales organizations generally represent product lines offered by several companies and thus could reduce their sales efforts applied to our products or terminate their representation of us. in fiscal 2014 , 36% of our revenues were generated from distributors which includes distribution sales to samsung and catalog distributors, and 17% of our revenues were generated from avnet, our primary world-wide distributor. we require certain foreign distributors to provide a letter of credit to us in an amount up to the credit limit set for accounts receivable from such foreign distributors. the letter of credit provides for collection on accounts receivable from the foreign distributor should the foreign distributor default on their accounts receivable to us. where credit limits have been established above the amount of the letter of credit, we are exposed for the difference. we do not require letters of credit from any of our domestic distributors and are not contractually protected against accounts receivable default or bankruptcy by these distributors. the inability to collect open accounts receivable could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. termination of a significant distributor, whether at our or the distributor's initiative, could be disruptive and harmful to our current business. our financial results may be adversely affected by increased tax rates and exposure to additional tax liabilities a number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including, but not limited to: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; changes in our global structure that involve an increased investment in technology outside of the united states to better align asset ownership and business functions with revenues and profits; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities, and in particular, the outcome of the pending internal revenue service audit of our tax returns for fiscal years 2009-2011; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, including the base erosion profit shifting ( beps ) project being conducted by the organization for economic co-operation and development ( oecd ); changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and the repatriation of non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. we are subject to taxation in various countries and jurisdictions. significant judgment is required to determine tax liabilities on a worldwide basis. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. political conditions could materially affect our revenues and results of operations we are subject to the political and legal risks inherent in international operations. exposure to political instabilities, different business policies and varying legal standards could impact economic activity, which in turn could lead to a contraction of customer demand or a disruption in our operations. we have been impacted by these problems in the past, but none have materially affected our results of operations. problems in the future or not-yet-materialized consequences of past problems could affect deliveries of our products to our customers, possibly resulting in substantially delayed or lost sales and/or increased expenses that cannot be passed on to customers. 14 environmental, safety and health laws and regulations could force us to expend significant capital and incur substantial costs various foreign and domestic federal, state, and local government agencies impose a variety of environmental, safety and health laws and regulations on the storage, handling, use, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals, gases and other substances used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process. historically, compliance with these regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive or financial position. there can be no assurance, however, that interpretation and enforcement of current or future environmental, safety and health laws and regulations will not impose costly requirements upon us. any failure by us to adequately control the storage, handling, use, discharge or disposal of regulated substances could result in fines, suspension of production, alteration of wafer fabrication processes and legal liability, which may materially adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. employee health benefit costs may negatively impact our profitability with a large number of employees participating in our health benefit plans, our expenses relating to employee health benefits are substantial. in past years, we have experienced significant increases in certain of these costs, largely as a result of economic factors beyond our control, including, in particular, ongoing increases in health care costs well in excess of the rate of inflation. while we have attempted to control these costs in recent years, there can be no assurance that we will be as successful in controlling such costs in the future. continued increasing health care costs, as well as changes in laws, regulations and assumptions used to calculate health and benefit expenses, may adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. business interruptions from natural disasters could harm our ability to produce products we operate our business in worldwide locations. some of our facilities and those of our subcontractors are located in geologically unstable areas of the world and are susceptible to damage from natural disasters. in the event of a natural disaster, we may suffer a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our results of operations. our financial condition, operations and liquidity may be materially adversely affected in the event of a catastrophic loss for which we are self-insured we are primarily self-insured with respect to many of our commercial risks and exposures. based on management's assessment and judgment, we have determined that it is generally more cost effective to self-insure these risks. the risks and exposures we self-insure include, but are not limited to, fire, property and casualty, natural disasters, product defects, political risk, general liability, theft, counterfeits, patent infringement, certain employment practice matters and medical benefits for many of our u.s. employees. should there be catastrophic loss from events such as fires, explosions or earthquakes or other natural disasters, among many other risks, or adverse court or similar decisions in any area in which we are self-insured, our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be materially adversely affected. we may pursue acquisitions and investments that could harm our operating results and may disrupt our business we have made and will continue to consider making strategic business investments, alliances and acquisitions we consider necessary or desirable to gain access to key technologies that we believe will complement our existing technical capability and support our business model objectives. acquisitions, alliances and investments involve risks and uncertainties that may negatively impact our future financial performance and result in an impairment of goodwill. if integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or suffer other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee. we may also need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. any of the foregoing, and other, factors could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability from acquired businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of acquisitions. in addition, because acquisitions of high technology companies are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. our debt covenants may limit us from engaging in certain transactions in march 2013, the company issued $500 million of 3.38% senior unsecured notes due 2023 ( 2023 notes ), and in november 2013, the company issued another $500 million of 2.50% senior unsecured notes due 2018 ( 2018 notes ). interest on the 2023 notes is payable semi-annually on march 15 and september 15, and interest on the 2018 notes is payable semi-annually on may 15 15 and november 15. the debt indentures that govern the 2023 notes and the 2018 notes, respectively, include covenants that limit the company's ability to grant liens on its facilities and to enter into sale and leaseback transactions, which could limit the company's ability to secure additional debt funding in the future. in circumstances involving a change of control of the company followed by a downgrade of the rating of the 2023 notes or the 2018 notes, the company would be required to make an offer to repurchase the affected notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of such notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. the company's ability to repurchase the 2023 notes and/or the 2018 notes in such events may be limited by the company's then-available financial resources or by the terms of other agreements to which the company is a party. although the company currently has the funds necessary to retire this debt, funds might not be available to repay the notes when they become due in the future. we may be materially adversely affected by currency fluctuations or changes in trade policies we conduct our manufacturing and other operations in various worldwide locations. a portion of our operating costs and expenses at foreign locations are paid in local currencies. many of the materials used in our products and much of the manufacturing process for our products are supplied by foreign companies or by our foreign operations, such as our test operations in the philippines and thailand. approximately 87% , 88% and 88% of our net revenues in fiscal years 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively, were from international sales. accordingly, both manufacturing and sales of our products may be adversely affected by political or economic conditions abroad. in addition, various forms of protectionist trade legislation are routinely proposed in the united states and certain foreign countries. a change in current tariff structures or other trade policies could adversely affect our foreign manufacturing or marketing strategies. currency exchange fluctuations could also decrease revenue and increase our operating costs, the cost of components manufactured abroad, and the cost of our products to foreign customers, or decrease the costs of products produced by our foreign competitors. we are subject to a variety of domestic and international laws and regulations, including u.s. customs and export regulations and the foreign corrupt practices act among other laws and regulations, we are subject to u.s. customs and export regulations, including u.s. international traffic and arms regulations and similar laws, which collectively control import, export and sale of technologies by companies and various other aspects of the operation of our business, and the foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws, which prohibit companies from making improper payments to government officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business. while our company policies and procedures mandate compliance with such laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees and agents will always act in strict compliance. failure to comply with such laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal enforcement, including monetary fines and possible injunctions against shipment of product or other activities of the company, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. our certificate of incorporation contains certain anti-takeover provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a hostile change in control of our company our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to authorize the issuance of up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences and privileges and restrictions applicable to such shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. any such issuance might discourage, delay or prevent a hostile change in control of our company. compliance with new regulations regarding the use of conflict minerals could limit the supply and increase the cost of certain metals used in manufacturing our products pursuant to section 1502 of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 (the dodd-frank act), the sec has promulgated new disclosure requirements for manufacturers of products containing certain minerals which are mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries. these conflict minerals are commonly found in metals used in the manufacture of semiconductors. manufacturers are also required to disclose their efforts to prevent the sourcing of such minerals and metals produced from them. the implementation of these new regulations may limit the sourcing and availability of some of the metals used in the manufacture of our products. the regulations may also reduce the number of suppliers who provide conflict-free metals, and may affect our ability to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. finally, some of our customers may elect to disqualify us as a supplier if we are unable to verify that the metals used in our products are free of conflict minerals. 16 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 31 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk the company's exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to the company's cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and notes payable. see note 5: financial instruments in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. the company does not use derivative financial instruments to hedge the ongoing risk of interest rate volatility. at june 28, 2014 , the company maintained a significant portfolio of money market fund investments, which are included in cash and cash equivalents. these money market funds are generally invested only in u.s. government or agency 31 securities and are all available on a daily basis. the company's short term investments are in u.s. governments securities and long term notes are all fixed rate securities. foreign currency risk the company generates less than 1% of its revenues in various global markets based on orders obtained in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the company incurs expenditures denominated in non-u.s. currencies, principally the philippine peso and thai baht associated with the company's manufacturing activities in the philippines and thailand, respectively, and expenditures for sales offices and research and development activities undertaken outside of the u.s. the company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates primarily on orders and accounts receivable from sales in these foreign currencies and cash flows for expenditures in these foreign currencies. the company has established risk management strategies designed to reduce the impact of volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in the exchange rate for these currencies. these strategies reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rates movements. the company does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. the company routinely hedges its exposures to certain foreign currencies with various financial institutions in an effort to minimize the impact of certain currency exchange rate fluctuations. if a financial counterparty to any of the company's hedging arrangements experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of the foreign currency hedge, the company may experience financial losses. for derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges under asc no. 815- derivatives and hedging ( asc 815 ), the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss and reclassified into earnings into the same financial statement line as the item being hedged, and in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. gains and losses on the derivative representing either hedge ineffectiveness or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized each period in interest and other income (expense), net. for derivative instruments that are not designated as hedging instruments under asc 815, gains and losses are recognized each period in interest and other income (expense), net. all derivatives are foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain foreign currency denominated assets or liabilities. the gains and losses on these derivatives largely offset the changes in the fair value of the assets or liabilities being hedged. foreign exchange contracts the net unrealized gain or loss, if any, is potentially subject to market and credit risk as it represents appreciation (decline) of the hedge position against the spot exchange rates. the net realized and unrealized gains or losses from hedging foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities were immaterial during the fiscal year ended june 28, 2014 and june 29, 2013 .risk factors 9 risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also adversely affect our business. the sale of our products and our results of operations are dependent upon demand from the end markets of our customers, which is cyclical. the demand for our products is subject to the strength of the five major end-markets that we serve and to some extent the overall economic climate. we often experience decreases and increases in demand for our products primarily due to the end-market demand of our customers. our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if demand for our products decreases or if we are unable to meet an increase in demand without significantly increasing the lead-time for the delivery of our products. the semiconductor market historically has been cyclical with periods of increased demand and rapid growth followed by periods of oversupply and subsequent contraction and subject to significant and often rapid increases and decreases in product demand. as a result, changes could have adverse effects on our results of operation. we are dependent on a few large customers for a substantial portion of our revenues, the loss of which could materially affect our revenues and results of operations. we depend on a few large customers for a substantial portion of our net revenues. sales to samsung, our largest single end customer (through direct sales and distributors), accounted for approximately 15% , 20% and 28% of net revenues in fiscal years 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. the delay, significant reduction in, or loss of, orders from large customers (including curtailments of purchases due to a change in the design, manufacturing or sourcing policies or practices of these customers or the timing of customer inventory adjustments) or demands of price concessions from large customers could have a material adverse effect on our net revenues and results of operations. incorrect forecasts, reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products and volatility in customer demand could adversely affect our results of operations. as is customary in the semiconductor industry, customer orders may be canceled in most cases without penalty to the customers. some customers place orders that require us to manufacture products and have them available for shipment, even though the customer may be unwilling to make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the products. in other cases, we manufacture products based on forecasts of customer demands. as a result, we may incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales and are subject to the risk of cancellations of orders, potentially leading to an initial inflation of backlog followed by a sharp reduction. in addition, backlog includes orders from certain domestic distributors for which revenues are not recognized until the ordered products are sold by the distributors. because of the possibility of order cancellation, backlog should not be used as a measure of future revenues. furthermore, canceled or unrealized orders, especially for products meeting unique customer requirements, may also result in an inventory of unsaleable products, causing potential inventory write-offs, some of which could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our gross margins and results of operations. our operating results may be adversely affected by increased competition and consolidation of competitors in our market. the semiconductor industry has experienced significant consolidation within the last twelve months. as a result, we experience intense competition from a number of companies, some of which have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, and marketing resources than us, as well as greater technical resources and proprietary intellectual property rights than us. the principal elements of competition include product performance, functional value, quality and reliability, technical service and support, price, diversity of product line, and sale of integrated system solutions which combine the functionality of multiple chips on one chip for a price as part of a complete system solution and delivery capabilities. we believe we compete favorably with respect to these factors, although we may be at a disadvantage in comparison to companies with broader product lines, greater technical service and support capabilities and larger research and development budgets. we may be unable to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors and our operating results may be adversely affected by increased competition or our inability to timely develop new products to meet the needs of our customers. our operating results may be adversely affected by our inability to timely develop new products through our research and development efforts. we may be unsuccessful in developing and selling new products necessary to maintain or expand our business. 9 the marketplace for our products is constantly changing and we are required to make substantial ongoing investments in our research and development. the semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological change, variations in manufacturing efficiencies of new products, and significant expenditures for capital equipment and product development. new product introductions are a critical factor for maintaining or increasing future revenue growth and sustained or increased profitability. however, they can present significant business challenges because product development commitments and expenditures must be made well in advance of the related revenues. the success of a new product depends on a variety of factors including accurate forecasts of long-term market demand and future technological developments, accurate anticipation of competitors' actions and offerings, timely and efficient completion of process design and development, timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing and assembly processes, product performance, quality and reliability of the product, and effective marketing, revenue and service. our products may fail to meet new industry standards or requirements and the efforts to meet such industry standards or requirements could be costly. many of our products are based on industry standards that are continually evolving. our ability to compete in the future will depend on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with these evolving industry standards. the emergence of new industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major systems manufacturers. as a result, we could be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards or requirements, we could miss opportunities to achieve crucial design wins which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial results. our results of operations could be adversely affected by warranty claims and product liability. we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability suits in connection with reliability problems or other product defects that may affect our customers. our products are used by a variety of industries, including the automotive and medical industries. failure of our products to perform to specifications, or other product defects, could lead to substantial damage to both the end product in which our device has been placed and to the user of such end product. although we take measures to protect against product defects, if a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and any adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may impact our ability to compete effectively. we rely upon know-how, trade secrets, and patents to develop and maintain our competitive position. there can be no assurance that others will not develop or patent similar technology or reverse engineer our products or that the confidentiality agreements upon which we rely will be adequate to protect our interests. moreover, the laws of some foreign countries generally do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the united states, and we may encounter problems in protecting our proprietary rights in those foreign countries. periodically, we have been asked by certain prospective customers to provide them with broad licenses to our intellectual property rights in connection with the sale of our products to them. such licenses, if granted, may have a negative impact on the value of our intellectual property portfolio. other companies have obtained patents covering a variety of semiconductor designs and processes, and we could be required to obtain licenses under some of these patents or be precluded from making and selling the infringing products, if such patents are valid and other design and manufacturing solutions are not available. there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain licenses, if required, upon commercially reasonable terms or at all. we may suffer losses and business interruption if our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others. in the past, it has been common in the semiconductor industry for patent holders to offer licenses on reasonable terms and rates. although the practice of offering licenses appears to be generally continuing, in some situations, typically where the patent directly relates to a specific product or family of products, patent holders have refused to grant licenses. in any of those cases, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain any necessary license on terms acceptable to us, if at all, or that we would be able to re-engineer our products or processes in a cost effective manner to avoid infringement. any litigation in such a situation could involve an injunction to prevent the sales of a material portion of our products, the reduction or elimination of the value of related inventories and the assessment of a substantial monetary award for damages related to past sales, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we may experience losses related to intellectual property indemnity claims. we provide intellectual property indemnification for certain customers, distributors, suppliers and subcontractors for attorney fees and damages and costs awarded against these parties in certain circumstances in which our products are alleged to infringe third 10 party intellectual property rights, including patents, registered trademarks and copyrights. in certain cases, there are limits on and exceptions to our potential liability for indemnification relating to intellectual property infringement claims. we cannot estimate the amount of potential future payments, if any, that we might be required to make as a result of these agreements. to date, we have not been required to pay significant amounts for intellectual property indemnification claims. however, there can be no assurance that we will not have significant financial exposure under those intellectual property indemnification obligations in the future. if we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business may be harmed. our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our chief executive officer, our other executive officers, and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers and business unit managers, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. the loss of the services of one or several of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our company. in addition, we could be materially adversely affected if the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increases significantly or we are unsuccessful in attracting, motivating and retaining qualified personnel. should we lose one or more engineers who are key to a project's completion during the course of a particular project, the completion of such project may be delayed which could negatively affect customer relationships and goodwill and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. exiting certain product lines or businesses, or restructuring our operations, may adversely affect certain customer relationships and produce results that differ from our intended outcomes. the nature of our business requires strategic changes from time to time, including restructuring our operations, divesting and consolidating certain product lines and businesses. for example, we recently announced our intention to transfer our wafer manufacturing facility in san antonio, texas to a foundry partner and to close our wafer level packaging ( wlp ) manufacturing facility in dallas, texas. if we are unable to transfer the factory in san antonio or to timely shut down our wlp factory or otherwise exit product lines and businesses, or to close or consolidate operations, depends on a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. if we are unable to exit a product line or business in a timely manner, or to restructure our operations in a manner we deem to be advantageous, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. even if a divestment is successful, we may face indemnity and other liability claims by the acquirer or other parties. our manufacturing operations may be interrupted or suffer yield problems. given the nature of our products, it would be time consuming, difficult, and costly to arrange for new manufacturing facilities to supply such products. any prolonged inability to utilize one of our or a third party's manufacturing facilities due to damages resulting from fire, natural disaster, unavailability of electric power, labor unrest, political conditions or other causes, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. the manufacture and design of integrated circuits is highly complex. we may experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields or experience product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, capacity constraints, equipment malfunctioning, construction delays, upgrading or expanding existing facilities, changing our process technologies, or new technology qualification delays, particularly in our internal fabrication facilities, any of which could result in a loss of future revenues or increases in fixed costs. to the extent we do not achieve acceptable manufacturing yields or we experience delays in wafer fabrication, our results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, operating expenses related to increases in production capacity may adversely affect our operating results if revenues do not increase proportionately. our dependence on subcontractors for assembly, test, freight, wafer fabrication and logistic services and certain manufacturing services may cause delays beyond our control in delivering products to our customers. we rely on subcontractors located in various parts of the world for assembly and csp packaging services, freight and logistic services, wafer fabrication and sorting and testing services. none of the subcontractors we currently use are affiliated with us. reliability problems experienced by our subcontractors or the inability to promptly replace any subcontractor could cause serious problems in delivery and quality resulting in potential product liability to us. such problems could impair our ability to meet our revenue plan in the fiscal year period impacted by the disruption. failure to meet the revenue plan may materially adversely impact our results of operations. any disruptions in our sort, assembly, test, freight and logistic operations or in the operations of our subcontractors, including, but not limited to, the inability or unwillingness of any of our subcontractors to produce or timely deliver adequate supplies of processed wafers, integrated circuit packages or tested products conforming to our quality standards, or other required products 11 or services could damage our reputation, relationships and goodwill with customers. furthermore, finding alternate sources of supply or initiating internal wafer processing for these products may not be economically feasible. shortage of raw materials or supply disruption of such raw materials could harm our business. the semiconductor industry has experienced a large expansion of fabrication capacity and production worldwide over time. as a result of increasing demand from semiconductor, solar and other manufacturers, availability of certain basic materials and supplies, and of subcontract services, has been limited from time to time over the past several years, and could come into short supply again if overall industry demand exceeds the supply of these materials and services in the future. we purchase materials and supplies from many suppliers, some of which are sole-sourced. if the availability of these materials and supplies is interrupted, we may not be able to find suitable replacements. in addition, from time to time natural disasters can lead to a shortage of some materials due to disruption of the manufacturer's production. we continually strive to maintain availability of all required materials, supplies and subcontract services. however, we do not have long-term agreements providing for all of these materials, supplies and services, and shortages could occur as a result of capacity limitations or production constraints on suppliers that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our production requirements. extensions in lead-time for delivery of products could adversely affect our future growth opportunities and results of operations. supply constraints, which may include limitations in manufacturing capacity, could impede our ability to grow revenues and meet increased customer demands for our products. our results of operations may be adversely affected if we fail to meet such increase in demand for our products without significantly increasing the lead-time required for our delivery of such products. any significant increase in the lead-time for delivery of products may negatively affect our customer relationships, reputation as a dependable supplier of products and ability to obtain future design wins, while potentially increasing order cancellations, aged, unsaleable or otherwise unrealized backlog, and the likelihood of our breach of supply agreement terms. any of the foregoing factors could negatively affect our future revenue growth and results of operations. we may be liable for additional production costs and lost revenues to certain customers with whom we have entered into customer supply agreements if we are unable to meet certain product quantity and quality requirements. we enter into contracts with certain customers whereby we commit to supply quantities of specified parts at a predetermined scheduled delivery date. the number of such arrangements continues to increase as this practice becomes more commonplace. should we be unable to supply the customer with the specific part at the quantity and product quality desired and on the scheduled delivery date, the customer may incur additional production costs. in addition, the customer may lose revenues due to a delay in receiving the parts necessary to have the end-product ready for sale to its customers or due to product quality issues. under certain customer supply agreements, we may be liable for direct additional production costs or lost revenues. if products are not shipped on time or are quality deficient, we may be liable for penalties and resulting damages. such liability, should it arise, and/or our inability to meet these commitments to our customers may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could damage our relationships, reputation and goodwill with the affected customers. if we fail to enter into future vendor managed inventory arrangements or fail to supply the specific product or quantity under such arrangements, the results of our operations and financial condition may be materially adversely impacted. we enter into arrangements with certain original equipment manufacturers ( oems ) and electronic manufacturing services ( ems ) partners to consign quantities of certain products within close proximity of the oems and ems partners' manufacturing location. the inventory is physically segregated at these locations and we retain title and risk of loss related to this inventory until such time as the oem or ems partner pulls the inventory for use in its manufacturing process. once the inventory is pulled by the oem or ems partner, title and risk of loss pass to the customer, at which point we relieve inventory and recognize revenue and the related cost of goods sold. the specific quantities to be consigned are based on a forecast provided by the oem or ems partner. generally, the arrangements with the oems and ems partners provide for transfer of title and risk of loss once product has been consigned for a certain length of time. we believe these arrangements will continue to grow in terms of number of customers and products and will increase in proportion to consolidated net revenues. should we be unable or unwilling to enter into such agreements as requested by oems or ems partners, our results of operations may be materially adversely impacted. in addition, should we be unable to supply the specific product in the quantity needed by the oem or ems partner as reflected in their forecast, we may be liable for damages, including, but not limited to, lost revenues and increased production costs which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. should we supply product in excess of the oem or ems partners actual usage, any inventory 12 not consumed may become excess or obsolete, which would result in an inventory write off that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. our critical information systems are subject to attacks, interruptions and failures. we rely on several information technology systems to provide products and services, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers, keep financial, employee and other records, and operate other critical functions. we currently have, and are in the process of developing several more, systems and procedures that include, among other things, ongoing internal risk assessments to identify vulnerabilities, the creation of an internal group dedicated to reviewing cybersecurity threats, and the adoption of an information security policy. despite our efforts to mitigate risks associated with cybersecurity events, our information technology systems may be susceptible to adaptive persistent threats ( apt ), catastrophic cybersecurity attacks, damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, computer malware and viruses, telecommunication failures, user errors, or other unforeseen events. risks associated with these threats include, but are not limited to, loss of intellectual property, impairment of our ability to conduct our operations, disruption of our customers' operations, loss or damage to our customer data delivery systems, and increased costs to prevent, respond to or mitigate catastrophic cybersecurity events. a prolonged systemic disruption in the information technology systems could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant consequential costs, which could adversely affect our business. in addition, cybersecurity breaches of our information technology systems could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our customers, partners, suppliers, or employees which could result in our suffering significant financial or reputational damage. we may encounter difficulties in the implementation of a new global execution system, which may adversely affect our operations and financial reporting. we are in the process of implementing in phases a new global execution system ( ges ) as part of our efforts to integrate inventory movement with our financial reporting system. any difficulties in the implementation or operation of ges could disrupt our supply chain execution which may lead to our inability to effectively supply products to our customers. such developments could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial reporting. material impairments of our goodwill or intangible assets could adversely affect our results of operations. goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if certain impairment indicators arise or upon the disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. the review compares the fair value for each reporting unit to its associated book value including goodwill. a decrease in the fair value associated with a reporting unit resulting from, among other things, unfavorable changes in the estimated future discounted cash flow of the reporting unit, may require us to recognize impairments of goodwill. most of our intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives, but they are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. if the sum of the future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of the intangible asset and its eventual disposition is less than the carrying amount of the asset, we would recognize an impairment loss to the extent the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions. the global economic environment could subject us to increased credit risk should customers be unable to pay us, or delay paying us, for previously purchased products. accordingly, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. in addition, weakness in the market for end users of our products could harm the cash flow of certain of our distributors and resellers who could then delay paying their obligations to us or experience other financial difficulties. this would further increase our credit risk exposure and potentially cause delays in our recognition of revenue on sales to these customers. if economic or market conditions deteriorate globally, in the united states or in other key markets, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which could adversely impact our common stock price. we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. our operating results have in the past been, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly fluctuations as a result of numerous factors, some of which may contribute to more pronounced fluctuations in an uncertain global economic environment. these factors include, but are not limited to, the following: fluctuations in demand for our products and services; 13 loss of a significant customer or significant customers electing to purchase from another supplier; reduced visibility into our customers' spending plans and associated revenue; the level of price and competition in our product markets; our pricing practices, including our use of available information to maximize pricing potential; the impact of the uncertain economic and credit environment on our customers, channel partners, and suppliers, including their ability to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures; the overall movement toward industry consolidations among our customers and competitors; below industry-average growth of the non-consumer segments of our business; announcements and introductions of new products by our competitors; deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements (introduced by us or our competitors); our ability to meet increases in customer orders in a timely manner; striking an appropriate balance between short-term execution and long-term innovation; our ability to develop, introduce, and market new products and enhancements and market acceptance of such new products and enhancements; and our levels of operating expenses. our stock price may be volatile. the market price of our common stock may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. fluctuations have occurred and may continue to occur in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control. in addition, the market prices of securities of technology companies, including those in the semiconductor industry, generally have been and remain volatile. this volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. if our actual operating results or future forecasted results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, who may derive their expectations by extrapolating data from recent historical operating results, the market price of our common stock may decline. accordingly, you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at a price equal to or higher than the price you paid for them. due to the nature of our compensation programs, some of our executive officers sell shares of our common stock each quarter or otherwise periodically, including pursuant to trading plans established under rule 10b5-1 of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. regardless of the reasons for such sales, analysts and investors could view such actions in a negative light and the market price of our stock could be adversely affected as a result of such periodic sales. our independent distributors and sales representatives may terminate their relationship with us or fail to make payments on outstanding accounts receivable to us, which would adversely affect our financial results. a portion of our sales is realized through independent electronics distributors that are not under our direct control. these independent sales organizations generally represent product lines offered by several companies and thus could reduce their sales efforts applied to our products or terminate their distribution relationship with us. in fiscal 2015, 36% of our revenues were generated from distributors the largest of which was avnet, our primary world-wide distributor, which accounted for 19% of our revenues. we require certain foreign distributors to provide a letter of credit to us in an amount up to the credit limit set for accounts receivable from such foreign distributors. the letter of credit provides for collection on accounts receivable from the foreign distributor should the foreign distributor default on their accounts receivable to us. where credit limits have been established above the amount of the letter of credit, we are exposed for the difference. we do not require letters of credit from any of our domestic distributors and are not contractually protected against accounts receivable default or bankruptcy by these distributors. the inability to collect open accounts receivable could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. termination of a significant distributor, whether at our or the distributor's initiative, could be disruptive and harmful to our current business. our financial results may be adversely affected by increased tax rates and exposure to additional tax liabilities. a number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including, but not limited to: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; changes in our global structure that involve an increased investment in technology outside of the united states to better align asset ownership and business functions with revenues and profits; 14 the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities, and in particular, the outcome of the pending internal revenue service audit of our tax returns for fiscal years 2009-2011; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, including the base erosion and profit shifting ( beps ) project being conducted by the organization for economic co-operation and development ( oecd ); changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and the repatriation of non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. we are subject to taxation in various countries and jurisdictions. significant judgment is required to determine tax liabilities on a worldwide basis. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. political conditions could materially affect our revenues and results of operations. we are subject to the political and legal risks inherent in international operations. exposure to political instabilities, different business policies and varying legal standards could impact economic activity, which in turn could lead to a contraction of customer demand or a disruption in our operations. we have been impacted by these problems in the past, but none have materially affected our results of operations. problems in the future or not-yet-materialized consequences of past problems could affect deliveries of our products to our customers, possibly resulting in substantially delayed or lost sales and/or increased expenses that cannot be passed on to customers. environmental, safety and health laws and regulations could force us to expend significant capital and incur substantial costs. various foreign and domestic federal, state, and local government agencies impose a variety of environmental, safety and health laws and regulations on the storage, handling, use, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals, gases and other substances used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process. historically, compliance with these regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive or financial position. there can be no assurance, however, that interpretation and enforcement of current or future environmental, safety and health laws and regulations will not impose costly requirements upon us. any failure by us to adequately control the storage, handling, use, discharge or disposal of regulated substances could result in fines, suspension of production, alteration of wafer fabrication processes and legal liability, which may materially adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. employee health benefit costs may negatively impact our profitability. with a large number of employees participating in our health benefit plans, our expenses relating to employee health benefits are substantial. in past years, we have experienced significant increases in certain of these costs, largely as a result of economic factors beyond our control, including, in particular, ongoing increases in health care costs well in excess of the rate of inflation. while we have attempted to control these costs in recent years, there can be no assurance that we will be as successful in controlling such costs in the future. continued increases in health care costs, as well as changes in laws, regulations and assumptions used to calculate health and benefit expenses, may adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. business interruptions from natural disasters could harm our ability to produce products. we operate our business in worldwide locations. some of our facilities and those of our subcontractors are located in geologically unstable areas of the world and are susceptible to damage from natural disasters. in the event of a natural disaster, we may suffer a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our results of operations. our financial condition, operations and liquidity may be materially adversely affected in the event of a catastrophic loss for which we are self-insured. we are primarily self-insured with respect to many of our commercial risks and exposures. based on management's assessment and judgment, we have determined that it is generally more cost effective to self-insure these risks. the risks and exposures we self-insure include, but are not limited to, fire, property and casualty, natural disasters, product defects, political risk, general 15 liability, theft, counterfeits, patent infringement, certain employment practice matters and medical benefits for many of our u.s. employees. should there be catastrophic loss from events such as fires, explosions or earthquakes or other natural disasters, among many other risks, or adverse court or similar decisions in any area in which we are self-insured, our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be materially adversely affected. we may pursue acquisitions and investments that could harm our operating results and may disrupt our business. we have made and will continue to consider making strategic business investments, alliances and acquisitions we consider necessary or desirable to gain access to key technologies that we believe will complement our existing technical capability and support our business model objectives. acquisitions, alliances and investments involve risks and uncertainties that may negatively impact our future financial performance and result in an impairment of goodwill. if integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or suffer other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee. we may also need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. any of the foregoing, and other, factors could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability from acquired businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of acquisitions. in addition, because acquisitions of high technology companies are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. our debt covenants may limit us from engaging in certain transactions or other activities. we have entered into debt arrangements that contain certain covenants. the debt indentures that govern our outstanding notes include covenants that limit our ability to grant liens on its facilities and to enter into sale and leaseback transactions, which could limit our ability to secure additional debt funding in the future. in circumstances involving a change of control of the company followed by a downgrade of the rating of the notes, we would be required to make an offer to repurchase the affected notes at a purchase price greater than the aggregate principal amount of such notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. our ability to repurchase the notes in such events may be limited by our then-available financial resources or by the terms of other agreements to which we are a party. although we currently have the funds necessary to retire this debt, funds might not be available to repay the notes when they become due in the future. we have access to a revolving credit facility with certain institutional lenders. the credit agreement requires us to comply with certain covenants, including a requirement that we maintain a minimum debt to ebitda (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization) ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio (ebitda divided by interest expense). we remain subject to these covenants although we have not borrowed any amounts from this credit facility as it may be necessary or appropriate to do so in the future. we may be materially adversely affected by currency fluctuations or changes in trade policies. we conduct our manufacturing and other operations in various worldwide locations. a portion of our operating costs and expenses at foreign locations are paid in local currencies. many of the materials used in our products and much of the manufacturing process for our products are supplied by foreign companies or by our foreign operations, such as our test operations in the philippines and thailand. approximately 88% , 87% and 88% of our net revenues in fiscal years 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively, were from international sales. accordingly, both manufacturing and sales of our products may be adversely affected by political or economic conditions abroad. in addition, various forms of protectionist trade legislation are routinely proposed in the united states and certain foreign countries. a change in current tariff structures or other trade policies could adversely affect our foreign manufacturing or marketing strategies. currency exchange fluctuations could also decrease revenue and increase our operating costs, the cost of components manufactured abroad, and the cost of our products to foreign customers, or decrease the costs of products produced by our foreign competitors. we are subject to a variety of domestic and international laws and regulations, including the use of conflict minerals , u.s. customs and export regulations, and the foreign corrupt practices act. pursuant to section 1502 of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010, the sec has promulgated new disclosure requirements for manufacturers of products containing certain minerals that are mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries. these conflict minerals are commonly found in metals used in the manufacture of semiconductors. manufacturers are also required to disclose their efforts to prevent the sourcing of such minerals and metals produced from them. the implementation of these new regulations may limit the sourcing and availability of some of the metals 16 used in the manufacture of our products. the regulations may also reduce the number of suppliers who provide conflict-free metals, and may affect our ability to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. finally, some of our customers may elect to disqualify us as a supplier if we are unable to verify that the metals used in our products are free of conflict minerals. among other laws and regulations, we are also subject to u.s. customs and export regulations, including u.s. international traffic and arms regulations and similar laws, which collectively control import, export and sale of technologies by companies and various other aspects of the operation of our business, and the foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws, which prohibit companies from making improper payments to government officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business. while our company policies and procedures mandate compliance with such laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees and agents will always act in strict compliance. failure to comply with such laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal enforcement, including monetary fines and possible injunctions against shipment of product or other activities of the company, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. our certificate of incorporation contains certain anti-takeover provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a hostile change in control of our company. our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to authorize the issuance of up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences and privileges and restrictions applicable to such shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. any such issuance might discourage, delay or prevent a hostile change in control of our company. 17 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and notes payable. see note 5: financial instruments in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. we do not use derivative financial instruments to hedge the ongoing risk of interest rate volatility. at june 27, 2015 , we maintained a significant portfolio of money market fund investments, which are included in cash and cash equivalents. these money market funds are generally invested only in u.s. government or agency securities and are all available on a daily basis. our short term investments are in u.s. government securities and our long term notes are all fixed rate securities. to assess the interest rate risk associated with our investment portfolio, we performed sensitivity analysis for our long term notes as of june 27, 2015 , using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. the discount rates used were based on the market interest rates in effect at june 27, 2015 . the sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in interest rates would result in a reduction in the fair values of our long term notes, of $50.6 million . foreign currency risk we generate less than 1.0% of our revenues in various global markets based on orders obtained in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we incur expenditures denominated in non-u.s. currencies, primarily the philippine peso associated with our manufacturing activities in the philippines, and expenditures for sales offices and research and development activities undertaken outside of the u.s. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates primarily on orders and accounts receivable from sales in these foreign currencies and cash flows for expenditures in these foreign currencies. we have established risk management strategies designed to reduce the impact of volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in the exchange rate for these currencies. these strategies reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rates movements. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. we routinely hedge our exposure to certain foreign currencies with various financial institutions in an effort to minimize the impact of certain currency exchange rate fluctuations. if a financial counterparty to any of our hedging arrangements experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of the foreign currency hedge, we may experience financial losses. for derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges under asc no. 815- derivatives and hedging ( asc 815 ), the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income or loss and reclassified into earnings into the same financial statement line as the item being hedged, and in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. gains and losses on the derivative representing either hedge ineffectiveness or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized each period in interest and other income (expense), net. for derivative instruments that are not designated as hedging instruments under asc 815, gains and losses are recognized each period in interest and other income (expense), net. all derivatives are foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain foreign currency denominated assets or liabilities. the gains and losses on these derivatives largely offset the changes in the fair value of the assets or liabilities being hedged. as of june 27, 2015 , we had outstanding foreign currency derivative contracts with a total notional amount of $117.3 million . if overall foreign currency exchange rates appreciated (depreciated) uniformly by 10% against the u.s. dollar, our foreign currency derivative contracts outstanding as of june 27, 2015 would experience a loss (gain) of approximately $5.3 million . foreign exchange contracts 34 the net unrealized gain or loss, if any, is potentially subject to market and credit risk as it represents appreciation (decline) of the hedge position against the spot exchange rates. the net realized and unrealized gains or losses from hedging foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities were immaterial during the fiscal years ended june 27, 2015 and june 28, 2014 .risk factors 9 risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also adversely affect our business. the sale of our products and our results of operations are dependent upon demand from the end markets of our customers, which is cyclical. our products are sold in the following major end-markets: automotive, communications and data center, computing, consumer and industrial. the demand for our products is subject to the strength of these five major end-markets that we serve and to some extent the overall economic climate. we often experience decreases and increases in demand for our products primarily due to the end-market demand of our customers. our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if demand for our products decreases or if we are unable to meet an increase in demand without significantly increasing the lead-time for the delivery of our products. the semiconductor market historically has been cyclical with periods of increased demand and rapid growth followed by periods of oversupply and subsequent contraction and subject to significant and often rapid increases and decreases in product demand. as a result, changes could have adverse effects on our results of operation. incorrect forecasts, reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products and volatility in customer demand could adversely affect our results of operations. as is customary in the semiconductor industry, customer orders may be canceled in most cases without penalty to the customers. some customers place orders that require us to manufacture products and have them available for shipment, even though the customer may be unwilling to make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the products. in other cases, we manufacture products based on forecasts of customer demands. as a result, we may incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales and are subject to the risk of cancellations of orders, potentially leading to an initial inflation of backlog followed by a sharp reduction. in addition, backlog includes orders from certain domestic distributors for which revenues are not recognized until the ordered products are sold by the distributors. because of the possibility of order cancellation, backlog should not be used as a measure of future revenues. furthermore, canceled or unrealized orders, especially for products meeting unique customer requirements, may also result in an inventory of unsaleable products, causing potential inventory write-offs, some of which could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our gross margins and results of operations. we are dependent on a few large customers for a substantial portion of our revenues, the loss of which could materially affect our revenues and results of operations. we depend on a few large customers for a substantial portion of our net revenues. sales to samsung, our largest single end customer (through direct sales and distributors), accounted for approximately 14% , 15% and 20% of net revenues in fiscal years 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. the delay, significant reduction in, or loss of, orders from large customers (including curtailments of purchases due to a change in the design, manufacturing or sourcing policies or practices of these customers or the timing of customer inventory adjustments) or demands of price concessions from large customers could have a material adverse effect on our net revenues and results of operations. our operating results may be adversely affected by our inability to timely develop new products through our research and development efforts. we may be unsuccessful in developing and selling new products necessary to maintain or expand our business. the marketplace for our products is constantly changing and we are required to make substantial ongoing investments in our research and development. the semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological change, variations in manufacturing efficiencies of new products, and significant expenditures for capital equipment and product development. new product introductions are a critical factor for maintaining or increasing future revenue growth and sustained or increased profitability. however, they can present significant business challenges because product development commitments and expenditures must be made well in advance of the related revenues. the success of a new product depends on a variety of factors including accurate forecasts of long-term market demand and future technological developments, accurate anticipation of competitors' actions and offerings, timely and efficient completion of process design and development, timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing and assembly processes, product performance, quality and reliability of the product, and effective marketing, revenue and service. our operating results may be adversely affected by increased competition and consolidation of competitors in our market. 9 the semiconductor industry has experienced significant consolidation in recent years. as a result, we experience intense competition from a number of companies, some of which have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, and marketing resources than us, as well as greater technical resources and proprietary intellectual property rights than us. the principal elements of competition include product performance, functional value, quality and reliability, technical service and support, price, diversity of product line, and sale of integrated system solutions which combine the functionality of multiple chips on one chip for a price as part of a complete system solution and delivery capabilities. we believe we compete favorably with respect to these factors, although we may be at a disadvantage in comparison to companies with broader product lines, greater technical service and support capabilities and larger research and development budgets. we may be unable to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors and our operating results may be adversely affected by increased competition or our inability to timely develop new products to meet the needs of our customers. if we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business may be harmed. our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our chief executive officer, our other executive officers, and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers and business unit managers, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. the loss of the services of one or several of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our company. in addition, we could be materially adversely affected if the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increases significantly or we are unsuccessful in attracting, motivating and retaining qualified personnel. should we lose one or more engineers who are key to a project's completion during the course of a particular project, the completion of such project may be delayed which could negatively affect customer relationships and goodwill and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our results of operations could be adversely affected by warranty claims and product liability. we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability suits in connection with reliability problems or other product defects that may affect our customers. our products are used by a variety of industries, including the automotive and medical industries. failure of our products to perform to specifications, or other product defects, could lead to substantial damage to both the end product in which our device has been placed and to the user of such end product. although we take measures to protect against product defects, if a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and any adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may impact our ability to compete effectively. we rely upon know-how, trade secrets, and patents to develop and maintain our competitive position. there can be no assurance that others will not develop or patent similar technology or reverse engineer our products or that the confidentiality agreements upon which we rely will be adequate to protect our interests. moreover, the laws of some foreign countries generally do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the united states, and we may encounter problems in protecting our proprietary rights in those foreign countries. periodically, we have been asked by certain prospective customers to provide them with broad licenses to our intellectual property rights in connection with the sale of our products to them. such licenses, if granted, may have a negative impact on the value of our intellectual property portfolio. other companies have obtained patents covering a variety of semiconductor designs and processes, and we could be required to obtain licenses under some of these patents or be precluded from making and selling the infringing products, if such patents are valid and other design and manufacturing solutions are not available. there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain licenses, if required, upon commercially reasonable terms or at all. we may suffer losses and business interruption if our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others. in the past, it has been common in the semiconductor industry for patent holders to offer licenses on reasonable terms and rates. although the practice of offering licenses appears to be generally continuing, in some situations, typically where the patent directly relates to a specific product or family of products, patent holders have refused to grant licenses. in any of those cases, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain any necessary license on terms acceptable to us, if at all, or that we would be able to re-engineer our products or processes in a cost effective manner to avoid infringement. any litigation in such a situation could involve an injunction to prevent the sales of a material portion of our products, the reduction or elimination of the value of related inventories and the assessment of a substantial monetary award for damages related to past sales, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we may experience losses related to intellectual property indemnity claims. 10 we provide intellectual property indemnification for certain customers, distributors, suppliers and subcontractors for attorney fees and damages and costs awarded against these parties in certain circumstances in which our products are alleged to infringe third party intellectual property rights, including patents, registered trademarks and copyrights. in certain cases, there are limits on and exceptions to our potential liability for indemnification relating to intellectual property infringement claims. we cannot estimate the amount of potential future payments, if any, that we might be required to make as a result of these agreements. to date, we have not been required to pay significant amounts for intellectual property indemnification claims. however, there can be no assurance that we will not have significant financial exposure under those intellectual property indemnification obligations in the future. our dependence on subcontractors for assembly, test, freight, wafer fabrication and logistic services and certain manufacturing services may cause delays beyond our control in delivering products to our customers. we rely on subcontractors located in various parts of the world for assembly and csp packaging services, freight and logistic services, wafer fabrication and sorting and testing services. for example, in connection with the sale of our semiconductor wafer fabrication facility in san antonio, texas to towerjazz texas, inc. (formerly known as tj texas, inc.) ("towerjazz"), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of tower semiconductor ltd. ( tower ), in the third quarter of fiscal year 2016, we entered into a long-term supply agreement with towerjazz, pursuant to which we will procure from towerjazz certain quantities of silicon wafers upon which integrated circuits are made that are designed by us. none of the subcontractors we currently use are affiliated with us. reliability problems experienced by our subcontractors or the inability to promptly replace any subcontractor could cause serious problems in delivery and quality resulting in potential product liability to us. such problems could impair our ability to meet our revenue plan in the fiscal year period impacted by the disruption. failure to meet the revenue plan may materially adversely impact our results of operations. any disruptions in our sort, assembly, test, freight and logistic operations or in the operations of our subcontractors, including, but not limited to, the inability or unwillingness of any of our subcontractors to produce or timely deliver adequate supplies of processed wafers, integrated circuit packages or tested products conforming to our quality standards, or other required products or services could damage our reputation, relationships and goodwill with customers. furthermore, finding alternate sources of supply or initiating internal wafer processing for these products may not be economically feasible. exiting certain product lines or businesses, or restructuring our operations, may adversely affect certain customer relationships and produce results that differ from our intended outcomes. the nature of our business requires strategic changes from time to time, including restructuring our operations, divesting and consolidating certain product lines and businesses. for example, we completed the sale of our dallas, texas campus, including our wafer level packaging ( wlp ) manufacturing facility in dallas, texas in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016. in connection with this sale agreement, we entered into a lease and facility sharing agreement to lease back portions of the dallas, texas campus. we intend to complete the transition of design, administration and manufacturing activities during fiscal year 2017 and close our wlp manufacturing facility in dallas, texas by the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2017. the sale of facilities, or the exiting of certain product lines or businesses, may adversely affect certain customer relationships, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. additionally, our ability to timely shut down our wlp factory or otherwise exit product lines and businesses, or to close or consolidate operations, depends on a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. if we are unable to exit a product line or business in a timely manner, or to restructure our operations in a manner we deem to be advantageous, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. even if a divestment is successful, we may face indemnity and other liability claims by the acquirer or other parties. our manufacturing operations may be interrupted or suffer yield problems. given the nature of our products, it would be time consuming, difficult, and costly to arrange for new manufacturing facilities to supply such products. any prolonged inability to utilize one of our or a third party's manufacturing facilities due to damages resulting from fire, natural disaster, unavailability of electric power, labor unrest, political conditions or other causes, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. the manufacture and design of integrated circuits is highly complex. we may experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields or experience product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, capacity constraints, equipment malfunctioning, construction delays, upgrading or expanding existing facilities, changing our process technologies, or new technology qualification delays, particularly in our internal fabrication facilities, any of which could result in a loss of future revenues or increases in fixed costs. to the extent we do not achieve acceptable manufacturing yields or we experience delays in 11 wafer fabrication, our results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, operating expenses related to increases in production capacity may adversely affect our operating results if revenues do not increase proportionately. our critical information systems are subject to attacks, interruptions and failures. we rely on several information technology systems to provide products and services, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers, keep financial, employee and other records, and operate other critical functions. we currently have, and are in the process of developing several more, systems and procedures that include, among other things, ongoing internal risk assessments to identify vulnerabilities, the creation of an internal group dedicated to reviewing cybersecurity threats, and the adoption of an information security policy. despite our efforts to mitigate risks associated with cybersecurity events, our information technology systems may be susceptible to adaptive persistent threats ( apt ), catastrophic cybersecurity attacks, damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, computer malware and viruses, telecommunication failures, user errors, or other unforeseen events. risks associated with these threats include, but are not limited to, loss of intellectual property, impairment of our ability to conduct our operations, disruption of our customers' operations, loss or damage to our customer data delivery systems, and increased costs to prevent, respond to or mitigate catastrophic cybersecurity events. a prolonged systemic disruption in the information technology systems could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant consequential costs, which could adversely affect our business. in addition, cybersecurity breaches of our information technology systems could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our customers, partners, suppliers, or employees which could result in our suffering significant financial or reputational damage. shortage of raw materials or supply disruption of such raw materials could harm our business. the semiconductor industry has experienced a large expansion of fabrication capacity and production worldwide over time. as a result of increasing demand from semiconductor, solar and other manufacturers, availability of certain basic materials and supplies, and of subcontract services, has been limited from time to time over the past several years, and could come into short supply again if overall industry demand exceeds the supply of these materials and services in the future. we purchase materials and supplies from many suppliers, some of which are sole-sourced. if the availability of these materials and supplies is interrupted, we may not be able to find suitable replacements. in addition, from time to time natural disasters can lead to a shortage of some materials due to disruption of the manufacturer's production. we continually strive to maintain availability of all required materials, supplies and subcontract services. however, we do not have long-term agreements providing for all of these materials, supplies and services, and shortages could occur as a result of capacity limitations or production constraints on suppliers that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our production requirements. extensions in lead-time for delivery of products could adversely affect our future growth opportunities and results of operations. supply constraints, which may include limitations in manufacturing capacity, could impede our ability to grow revenues and meet increased customer demands for our products. our results of operations may be adversely affected if we fail to meet such increase in demand for our products without significantly increasing the lead-time required for our delivery of such products. any significant increase in the lead-time for delivery of products may negatively affect our customer relationships, reputation as a dependable supplier of products and ability to obtain future design wins, while potentially increasing order cancellations, aged, unsaleable or otherwise unrealized backlog, and the likelihood of our breach of supply agreement terms. any of the foregoing factors could negatively affect our future revenue growth and results of operations. we may be liable for additional production costs and lost revenues to certain customers with whom we have entered into customer supply agreements if we are unable to meet certain product quantity and quality requirements. we enter into contracts with certain customers whereby we commit to supply quantities of specified parts at a predetermined scheduled delivery date. the number of such arrangements continues to increase as this practice becomes more commonplace. should we be unable to supply the customer with the specific part at the quantity and product quality desired and on the scheduled delivery date, the customer may incur additional production costs. in addition, the customer may lose revenues due to a delay in receiving the parts necessary to have the end-product ready for sale to its customers or due to product quality issues. under certain customer supply agreements, we may be liable for direct additional production costs or lost revenues. if products are not shipped on time or are quality deficient, we may be liable for penalties and resulting damages. such liability, should it arise, and/or our inability to meet these commitments to our customers may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could damage our relationships, reputation and goodwill with the affected customers. 12 if we fail to enter into future vendor managed inventory arrangements or fail to supply the specific product or quantity under such arrangements, the results of our operations and financial condition may be materially adversely impacted. we enter into arrangements with certain original equipment manufacturers ( oems ) and electronic manufacturing services ( ems ) partners to consign quantities of certain products within proximity of the oems and ems partners' manufacturing location. the inventory is physically segregated at these locations and we retain title and risk of loss related to this inventory until such time as the oem or ems partner pulls the inventory for use in its manufacturing process. once the inventory is pulled by the oem or ems partner, title and risk of loss pass to the customer, at which point we relieve inventory and recognize revenue and the related cost of goods sold. the specific quantities to be consigned are based on a forecast provided by the oem or ems partner. generally, the arrangements with the oems and ems partners provide for transfer of title and risk of loss once product has been consigned for a certain length of time. we believe these arrangements will continue to grow in terms of number of customers and products and will increase in proportion to consolidated net revenues. should we be unable or unwilling to enter into such agreements as requested by oems or ems partners, our results of operations may be materially adversely impacted. in addition, should we be unable to supply the specific product in the quantity needed by the oem or ems partner as reflected in their forecast, we may be liable for damages, including, but not limited to, lost revenues and increased production costs which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. should we supply product in excess of the oem or ems partners actual usage, any inventory not consumed may become excess or obsolete, which would result in an inventory write off that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. our products may fail to meet new industry standards or requirements and the efforts to meet such industry standards or requirements could be costly. many of our products are based on industry standards that are continually evolving. our ability to compete in the future will depend on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with these evolving industry standards. the emergence of new industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major systems manufacturers. as a result, we could be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards or requirements, we could miss opportunities to achieve crucial design wins which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial results our independent distributors and sales representatives may terminate their relationship with us or fail to make payments on outstanding accounts receivable to us, which would adversely affect our financial results. a portion of our sales is realized through independent electronics distributors that are not under our direct control. these independent sales organizations generally represent product lines offered by several companies and thus could reduce their sales efforts applied to our products or terminate their distribution relationship with us. in fiscal 2016, 38% of our revenues were generated from distributors the largest of which was avnet, our primary world-wide distributor, which accounted for 19% of our revenues. we require certain foreign distributors to provide a letter of credit to us in an amount up to the credit limit set for accounts receivable from such foreign distributors. the letter of credit provides for collection on accounts receivable from the foreign distributor should the foreign distributor default on their accounts receivable to us. where credit limits have been established above the amount of the letter of credit, we are exposed for the difference. we do not require letters of credit from any of our domestic distributors and are not contractually protected against accounts receivable default or bankruptcy by these distributors. the inability to collect open accounts receivable could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. termination of a significant distributor, whether at our or the distributor's initiative, could be disruptive and harmful to our current business. we may encounter difficulties in the implementation of a new global execution system, which may adversely affect our operations and financial reporting. we are in the process of implementing in phases a new global execution system ( ges ) as part of our efforts to integrate inventory movement with our financial reporting system. any difficulties in the implementation or operation of ges could disrupt our supply chain execution which may lead to our inability to effectively supply products to our customers. such developments could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial reporting. material impairments of our goodwill or intangible assets could adversely affect our results of operations. goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if certain impairment indicators arise or upon the disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. the review compares the fair value for each reporting unit to its associated book value 13 including goodwill. a decrease in the fair value associated with a reporting unit resulting from, among other things, unfavorable changes in the estimated future discounted cash flow of the reporting unit, may require us to recognize impairments of goodwill. most of our intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives, but they are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. if the sum of the future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of the intangible asset and its eventual disposition is less than the carrying amount of the asset, we would recognize an impairment loss to the extent the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions. the global economic environment could subject us to increased credit risk should customers be unable to pay us, or delay paying us, for previously purchased products. accordingly, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. in addition, weakness in the market for end users of our products could harm the cash flow of certain of our distributors and resellers who could then delay paying their obligations to us or experience other financial difficulties. this would further increase our credit risk exposure and potentially cause delays in our recognition of revenue on sales to these customers. if economic or market conditions deteriorate globally, in the united states or in other key markets, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which could adversely impact our common stock price. we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. our operating results have in the past been, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly fluctuations as a result of numerous factors, some of which may contribute to more pronounced fluctuations in an uncertain global economic environment. these factors include, but are not limited to, the following: fluctuations in demand for our products and services; loss of a significant customer or significant customers electing to purchase from another supplier; reduced visibility into our customers' spending plans and associated revenue; the level of price and competition in our product markets; our pricing practices, including our use of available information to maximize pricing potential; the impact of the uncertain economic and credit environment on our customers, channel partners, and suppliers, including their ability to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures; the overall movement toward industry consolidations among our customers and competitors; below industry-average growth of the non-consumer segments of our business; announcements and introductions of new products by our competitors; our ability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flow to pay dividends to our stockholders; deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements (introduced by us or our competitors); our ability to meet increases in customer orders in a timely manner; striking an appropriate balance between short-term execution and long-term innovation; our ability to develop, introduce, and market new products and enhancements and market acceptance of such new products and enhancements; and our levels of operating expenses. 14 our stock price may be volatile. the market price of our common stock may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. fluctuations have occurred and may continue to occur in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control. in addition, the market prices of securities of technology companies, including those in the semiconductor industry, generally have been and remain volatile. this volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. if our actual operating results or future forecasted results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, who may derive their expectations by extrapolating data from recent historical operating results, the market price of our common stock may decline. accordingly, you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at a price equal to or higher than the price you paid for them. due to the nature of our compensation programs, some of our executive officers sell shares of our common stock each quarter or otherwise periodically, including pursuant to trading plans established under rule 10b5-1 of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. regardless of the reasons for such sales, analysts and investors could view such actions in a negative light and the market price of our stock could be adversely affected as a result of such periodic sales. our financial results may be adversely affected by increased tax rates and exposure to additional tax liabilities. a number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including, but not limited to: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; changes in our global structure that involve an increased investment in technology outside of the united states to better align asset ownership and business functions with revenues and profits; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities, and in particular, the outcome of the internal revenue service audit of our tax returns for fiscal years 2009-2011; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, including the base erosion and profit shifting ( beps ) project being conducted by the organization for economic co-operation and development ( oecd ); changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and the repatriation of non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. we are subject to taxation in various countries and jurisdictions. significant judgment is required to determine tax liabilities on a worldwide basis. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. political conditions could materially affect our revenues and results of operations. we are subject to the political and legal risks inherent in international operations. exposure to political instabilities, different business policies and varying legal standards could impact economic activity, which in turn could lead to a contraction of customer demand or a disruption in our operations. we have been impacted by these problems in the past, but none have materially affected our results of operations. problems in the future or not-yet-materialized consequences of past problems could affect deliveries of our products to our customers, possibly resulting in substantially delayed or lost sales and/or increased expenses that cannot be passed on to customers. 15 environmental, safety and health laws and regulations could force us to expend significant capital and incur substantial costs. various foreign and domestic federal, state, and local government agencies impose a variety of environmental, safety and health laws and regulations on the storage, handling, use, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals, gases and other substances used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process. historically, compliance with these regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive or financial position. there can be no assurance, however, that interpretation and enforcement of current or future environmental, safety and health laws and regulations will not impose costly requirements upon us. any failure by us to adequately control the storage, handling, use, discharge or disposal of regulated substances could result in fines, suspension of production, alteration of wafer fabrication processes and legal liability, which may materially adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. employee health benefit costs may negatively impact our profitability. with a large number of employees participating in our health benefit plans, our expenses relating to employee health benefits are substantial. in past years, we have experienced significant increases in certain of these costs, largely as a result of economic factors beyond our control, including, in particular, ongoing increases in health care costs well in excess of the rate of inflation. while we have attempted to control these costs in recent years, there can be no assurance that we will be as successful in controlling such costs in the future. continued increases in health care costs, as well as changes in laws, regulations and assumptions used to calculate health and benefit expenses, may adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. business interruptions from natural disasters could harm our ability to produce products. we operate our business in worldwide locations. some of our facilities and those of our subcontractors are located in geologically unstable areas of the world and are susceptible to damage from natural disasters. in the event of a natural disaster, we may suffer a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our results of operations. our financial condition, operations and liquidity may be materially adversely affected in the event of a catastrophic loss for which we are self-insured. we are primarily self-insured with respect to many of our commercial risks and exposures. based on management's assessment and judgment, we have determined that it is generally more cost effective to self-insure these risks. the risks and exposures we self-insure include, but are not limited to, fire, property and casualty, natural disasters, product defects, political risk, general liability, theft, counterfeits, patent infringement, certain employment practice matters and medical benefits for many of our u.s. employees. should there be catastrophic loss from events such as fires, explosions or earthquakes or other natural disasters, among many other risks, or adverse court or similar decisions in any area in which we are self-insured, our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be materially adversely affected. we may pursue acquisitions and investments that could harm our operating results and may disrupt our business. we have made and will continue to consider making strategic business investments, alliances and acquisitions we consider necessary or desirable to gain access to key technologies that we believe will complement our existing technical capability and support our business model objectives. acquisitions, alliances and investments involve risks and uncertainties that may negatively impact our future financial performance and result in an impairment of goodwill. if integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or suffer other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee. we may also need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. we also invest in early-to-late stage private companies to further our strategic objectives and support key business initiatives and may not realize a return on our investments. all of our investments are subject to a risk of a partial or total loss of investment capital. any of the foregoing, and other, factors could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability from acquired businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of acquisitions. in addition, because acquisitions of high technology companies are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. our debt covenants may limit us from engaging in certain transactions or other activities. 16 we have entered into debt arrangements that contain certain covenants. the debt indentures that govern our outstanding notes include covenants that limit our ability to grant liens on its facilities and to enter into sale and leaseback transactions, which could limit our ability to secure additional debt funding in the future. in circumstances involving a change of control of the company followed by a downgrade of the rating of the notes, we would be required to make an offer to repurchase the affected notes at a purchase price greater than the aggregate principal amount of such notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. our ability to repurchase the notes in such events may be limited by our then-available financial resources or by the terms of other agreements to which we are a party. although we currently have the funds necessary to retire this debt, funds might not be available to repay the notes when they become due in the future. we have access to a revolving credit facility with certain institutional lenders. the credit agreement requires us to comply with certain covenants, including a requirement that we maintain a maximum debt to ebitda (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization) ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio (ebitda divided by interest expense). we remain subject to these covenants although we have not borrowed any amounts from this credit facility as it may be necessary or appropriate to do so in the future. we may be materially adversely affected by currency fluctuations or changes in trade policies. we conduct our manufacturing and other operations in various worldwide locations. a portion of our operating costs and expenses at foreign locations are paid in local currencies. many of the materials used in our products and much of the manufacturing process for our products are supplied by foreign companies or by our foreign operations, such as our test operations in the philippines and thailand. approximately 89% , 88% and 87% of our net revenues in fiscal years 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively, were from international sales. accordingly, both manufacturing and sales of our products may be adversely affected by political or economic conditions abroad. in addition, various forms of protectionist trade legislation are routinely proposed in the united states and certain foreign countries. a change in current tariff structures or other trade policies could adversely affect our foreign manufacturing or marketing strategies. currency exchange fluctuations could also decrease revenue and increase our operating costs, the cost of components manufactured abroad, and the cost of our products to foreign customers, or decrease the costs of products produced by our foreign competitors. we are subject to a variety of domestic and international laws and regulations, including the use of conflict minerals , u.s. customs and export regulations, and the foreign corrupt practices act. pursuant to section 1502 of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010, the sec promulgated disclosure requirements for manufacturers of products containing certain minerals that are mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries. these conflict minerals are commonly found in metals used in the manufacture of semiconductors. manufacturers are also required to disclose their efforts to prevent the sourcing of such minerals and metals produced from them. the implementation of these new regulations may limit the sourcing and availability of some of the metals used in the manufacture of our products. the regulations may also reduce the number of suppliers who provide conflict-free metals, and may affect our ability to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. finally, some of our customers may elect to disqualify us as a supplier if we are unable to verify that the metals used in our products are free of conflict minerals. among other laws and regulations, we are also subject to u.s. customs and export regulations, including u.s. international traffic and arms regulations and similar laws, which collectively control import, export and sale of technologies by companies and various other aspects of the operation of our business, and the foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws, which prohibit companies from making improper payments to government officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business. while our company's policies and procedures mandate compliance with such laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees and agents will always act in strict compliance. failure to comply with such laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal enforcement, including monetary fines and possible injunctions against shipment of product or other activities of the company, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. our certificate of incorporation contains certain anti-takeover provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a hostile change in control of our company. our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to authorize the issuance of up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences and privileges and restrictions applicable to such shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. any such issuance might discourage, delay or prevent a hostile change in control of our company, which may be considered beneficial to our stockholders. 17 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 32 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and notes payable. see note 5: financial instruments in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual 32 report. we do not use derivative financial instruments to hedge the ongoing risk of interest rate volatility. at june 25, 2016 , we maintained a significant portfolio of money market fund investments, which are included in cash and cash equivalents. these money market funds are generally invested only in u.s. government or agency securities and are all available on a daily basis. our short term investments are in u.s. government securities and our long term notes are all fixed rate securities. to assess the interest rate risk associated with our investment portfolio, we performed sensitivity analysis for our long term notes as of june 25, 2016 , using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. the discount rates used were based on the market interest rates in effect at june 25, 2016 . the sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in interest rates would result in a reduction in the fair values of our long term notes of $44.1 million . foreign currency risk we generate less than 1.0% of our revenues in various global markets based on orders obtained in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we incur expenditures denominated in non-u.s. currencies, primarily the philippine peso associated with our manufacturing activities in the philippines, and expenditures for sales offices and research and development activities undertaken outside of the u.s. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates primarily on orders, cash flows for expenditures and accounts receivable from sales in these foreign currencies. we have established risk management strategies designed to reduce the impact of volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in the exchange rate for these currencies. these strategies reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rates movements. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. we routinely hedge our exposure to certain foreign currencies with various financial institutions in an effort to minimize the impact of certain currency exchange rate fluctuations. if a financial counterparty to any of our hedging arrangements experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of the foreign currency hedge, we may experience financial losses. for derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges under asc no. 815- derivatives and hedging ( asc 815 ), the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income or loss and reclassified into earnings into the same financial statement line as the item being hedged, and in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. gains and losses on the derivative representing either hedge ineffectiveness or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized each period in interest and other income (expense), net. for derivative instruments that are not designated as hedging instruments under asc 815, gains and losses are recognized each period in interest and other income (expense), net. all derivatives are foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain foreign currency denominated assets or liabilities. the gains and losses on these derivatives largely offset the changes in the fair value of the assets or liabilities being hedged. as of june 25, 2016 , we had outstanding foreign currency derivative contracts with a total notional amount of $120.6 million . if overall foreign currency exchange rates appreciated (depreciated) uniformly by 10% against the u.s. dollar, our foreign currency derivative contracts outstanding as of june 25, 2016 would experience a loss (gain) of approximately $6.6 million . foreign exchange contracts the net unrealized gain or loss, if any, is potentially subject to market and credit risk as it represents appreciation (decline) of the hedge position against the spot exchange rates. the net realized and unrealized gains or losses from hedging foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities were immaterial during the fiscal years ended june 25, 2016 and june 27, 2015 .risk factors 9 risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also adversely affect our business. the sale of our products and our results of operations are dependent upon demand from the end markets of our customers, which is cyclical. our products are sold in the following major end-markets: (i) automotive, (ii) communications and data center, (iii) computing, (iv) consumer, and (v) industrial. the demand for our products is subject to the strength of these five major end-markets that we serve and to some extent the overall economic climate. we often experience decreases and increases in demand for our products primarily due to the end-market demand of our customers. our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if demand for our products decreases or if we are unable to meet an increase in demand without significantly increasing the lead-time for the delivery of our products. the semiconductor market historically has been cyclical with periods of increased demand and rapid growth followed by periods of oversupply and subsequent contraction and subject to significant and often rapid increases and decreases in product demand. as a result, changes could have adverse effects on our results of operation. incorrect forecasts, reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products and volatility in customer demand could adversely affect our results of operations. as is customary in the semiconductor industry, customer orders may be canceled in most cases without penalty to the customers. some customers place orders that require us to manufacture products and have them available for shipment, even though the customer may be unwilling to make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the products. in other cases, we manufacture products based on forecasts of customer demands. as a result, we may incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales and are subject to the risk of cancellations of orders, potentially leading to an initial inflation of backlog followed by a sharp reduction. because of the possibility of order cancellation, backlog should not be used as a measure of future revenues. furthermore, canceled or unrealized orders, especially for products meeting unique customer requirements, may also result in an inventory of unsaleable products, causing potential inventory write-offs, some of which could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our gross margins and results of operations. our operating results may be adversely affected by our inability to timely develop new products through our research and development efforts. we may be unsuccessful in developing and selling new products necessary to maintain or expand our business. the marketplace for our products is constantly changing and we are required to make substantial ongoing investments in our research and development. the semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological change, variations in manufacturing efficiencies of new products, and significant expenditures for capital equipment and product development. new product introductions are a critical factor for maintaining or increasing future revenue growth and sustained or increased profitability. however, they can present significant business challenges because product development commitments and expenditures must be made well in advance of the related revenues. the success of a new product depends on a variety of factors including accurate forecasts of long-term market demand and future technological developments, accurate anticipation of competitors' actions and offerings, timely and efficient completion of process design and development, timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing and assembly processes, product performance, quality and reliability of the product, and effective marketing, revenue and service. the loss of, or substantial reduction in sales to, any of our large customers could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. a reduction in demand or loss of one or more of our large customers may adversely affect our business. for example, sales to samsung, our largest single end customer (through direct sales and distributors), accounted for approximately 10% , 14% and 15% of net revenues in fiscal years 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. the delay, significant reduction in, or loss of, orders from any one or more of our large customers (including curtailments of purchases due to a change in the design, manufacturing or sourcing policies or practices of these customers or the timing of customer inventory adjustments) or demands of price concessions from any one or more of our large customers could have a material adverse effect on our net revenues and results of operations. our dependence on subcontractors for assembly, test, freight, wafer fabrication and logistic services and certain manufacturing services may cause delays beyond our control in delivering products to our customers. 9 we rely on subcontractors located in various parts of the world for assembly and csp packaging services, freight and logistic services, wafer fabrication, and sorting and testing services. for example, in connection with the sale of our semiconductor wafer fabrication facility in san antonio, texas to towerjazz texas, inc. (formerly known as tj texas, inc.) ("towerjazz"), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of tower semiconductor ltd. ( tower ), in the third quarter of fiscal year 2016, we entered into a long-term supply agreement with towerjazz, pursuant to which we will procure from towerjazz certain quantities of silicon wafers upon which integrated circuits are made that are designed by us. none of the subcontractors we currently use are affiliated with us. reliability problems experienced by our subcontractors or the inability to promptly replace any subcontractor could cause serious problems in delivery and quality resulting in potential product liability to us. such problems could impair our ability to meet our revenue plan in the fiscal year period impacted by the disruption. failure to meet the revenue plan may materially adversely impact our results of operations. any disruptions in our sort, assembly, test, freight, and logistic operations or in the operations of our subcontractors, including, but not limited to, the inability or unwillingness of any of our subcontractors to produce or timely deliver adequate supplies of processed wafers, integrated circuit packages, or tested products conforming to our quality standards, or other required products or services could damage our reputation, relationships, and goodwill with customers. furthermore, finding alternate sources of supply or initiating internal wafer processing for these products may not be economically feasible. if we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business may be harmed. our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our chief executive officer, our other executive officers, and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers and business unit managers, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. the loss of the services of one or several of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our company. in addition, we could be materially adversely affected if the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increases significantly or we are unsuccessful in attracting, motivating and retaining qualified personnel. should we lose one or more engineers who are key to a project's completion during the course of a particular project, the completion of such project may be delayed which could negatively affect customer relationships and goodwill and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our manufacturing operations may be interrupted or suffer yield problems. given the nature of our products, it would be time consuming, difficult, and costly to arrange for new manufacturing facilities to supply such products. any prolonged inability to utilize one of our or a third party's manufacturing facilities due to damages resulting from fire, natural disaster, unavailability of electric power, labor unrest, political conditions or other causes, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. the manufacture and design of integrated circuits is highly complex. we may experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields or experience product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, capacity constraints, equipment malfunctioning, construction delays, upgrading or expanding existing facilities, changing our process technologies, or new technology qualification delays, particularly in our internal fabrication facilities, any of which could result in a loss of future revenues or increases in fixed costs. to the extent we do not achieve acceptable manufacturing yields or we experience delays in wafer fabrication, our results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, operating expenses related to increases in production capacity may adversely affect our operating results if revenues do not increase proportionately. our critical information systems are subject to attacks, interruptions and failures. we rely on several information technology systems to provide products and services, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers, keep financial, employee, and other records, and operate other critical functions. we currently have, and are in the process of developing several more, systems and procedures that include, among other things, ongoing internal risk assessments to identify vulnerabilities, an internal group dedicated to reviewing cybersecurity threats, and the adoption of an information security policy. despite our efforts to mitigate risks associated with cybersecurity events, our information technology systems may be susceptible to adaptive persistent threats, catastrophic cybersecurity attacks, damage, disruptions, or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, computer malware and viruses, telecommunication failures, user errors, or other events. risks associated with these threats include, but are not limited to, loss of intellectual property, impairment of our ability to conduct our operations, disruption of our customers' operations, loss or damage to our customer data delivery systems, and increased costs to prevent, respond to or mitigate catastrophic cybersecurity events. a prolonged systemic disruption in the information technology systems could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant consequential costs, which could adversely affect our business. in addition, cybersecurity breaches of our information technology systems could result in the misappropriation or 10 unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our customers, partners, suppliers, or employees which could result in our suffering significant financial or reputational damage. we may encounter difficulties in the implementation of a new global execution system, which may adversely affect our ability to effectively supply products to our customers and financial reporting. we are in the process of implementing in phases a new global execution system ( ges ) as part of our efforts to integrate inventory movement with our financial reporting system. any difficulties in the implementation or operation of ges could disrupt our supply chain execution which may lead to our inability to effectively supply products to our customers. such developments could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial reporting. our results of operations could be adversely affected by warranty claims and product liability. we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability suits in connection with reliability problems or other product defects that may affect our customers. our products are used by a variety of industries, including the automotive and medical industries. failure of our products to perform to specifications, or other product defects, could lead to substantial damage to both the end product in which our device has been placed and to the user of such end product. although we take measures to protect against product defects, if a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and any adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may impact our ability to compete effectively. we rely upon know-how, trade secrets, and patents to develop and maintain our competitive position. there can be no assurance that others will not develop or patent similar technology or reverse engineer our products or that the confidentiality agreements upon which we rely will be adequate to protect our interests. moreover, the laws of some foreign countries generally do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the united states, and we may encounter problems in protecting our proprietary rights in those foreign countries. periodically, we have been asked by certain prospective customers to provide them with broad licenses to our intellectual property rights in connection with the sale of our products to them. such licenses, if granted, may have a negative impact on the value of our intellectual property portfolio. other companies have obtained patents covering a variety of semiconductor designs and processes, and we could be required to obtain licenses under some of these patents or be precluded from making and selling products that are alleged to be infringing, if such patents are valid and other design and manufacturing solutions are not available. there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain licenses, if required, upon commercially reasonable terms or at all. we may suffer losses and business interruption if our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others. in the past, it has been common in the semiconductor industry for patent holders to offer licenses on reasonable terms and rates. although the practice of offering licenses appears to be generally continuing, in some situations, typically where the patent directly relates to a specific product or family of products, patent holders have refused to grant licenses. in any of those cases, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain any necessary license on terms acceptable to us, if at all, or that we would be able to re-engineer our products or processes in a cost effective manner to avoid claims of infringement. any litigation in such a situation could involve an injunction to prevent the sales of a material portion of our products, the reduction or elimination of the value of related inventories and the assessment of a substantial monetary award for damages related to past sales, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we may experience losses related to intellectual property indemnity claims. we provide intellectual property indemnification for certain customers, distributors, suppliers and subcontractors for attorney fees and damages and costs awarded against these parties in certain circumstances in which our products are alleged to infringe third party intellectual property rights, including patents, registered trademarks and copyrights. in certain cases, there are limits on and exceptions to our potential liability for indemnification relating to intellectual property infringement claims. we cannot estimate the amount of potential future payments, if any, that we might be required to make as a result of these agreements. to date, we have not been required to pay significant amounts for intellectual property indemnification claims. however, there can be no assurance that we will not have significant financial exposure under those intellectual property indemnification obligations in the future. 11 our independent distributors and sales representatives may underperform relative to our expectations, terminate their relationship with us or fail to make payments on outstanding accounts receivable to us, which would adversely affect our financial results. a portion of our sales is realized through independent electronics distributors that are not under our direct control. these independent sales organizations generally represent product lines offered by several companies and thus could underperform for various reasons, including as a result of reducing their sales efforts applied to our products, or terminate their distribution relationship with us. in fiscal 2017, 42% of our revenues were generated from distributors, the largest of which was avnet, our primary world-wide distributor, which accounted for 22% of our revenues. we require certain foreign distributors to provide a letter of credit to us in an amount up to the credit limit set for accounts receivable from such foreign distributors. the letter of credit provides for collection on accounts receivable from the foreign distributor should the foreign distributor default on their accounts receivable to us. where credit limits have been established above the amount of the letter of credit, we are exposed for the difference. we do not require letters of credit from any of our domestic distributors and are not contractually protected against accounts receivable default or bankruptcy by these distributors. the inability to collect open accounts receivable could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. termination of a significant distributor, whether at our or the distributor's initiative, or the general underperformance of a significant distributor could be disruptive and harmful to our current business. our operating results may be adversely affected by increased competition and consolidation of competitors in our market. the semiconductor industry has experienced significant consolidation in recent years. as a result, we experience intense competition from a number of companies, some of which have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, and marketing resources than us, as well as greater technical resources and proprietary intellectual property rights than us. the principal elements of competition include product performance, functional value, quality and reliability, technical service and support, price, diversity of product line, and sale of integrated system solutions which combine the functionality of multiple chips on one chip for a price as part of a complete system solution and delivery capabilities. we believe we compete favorably with respect to these factors, although we may be at a disadvantage in comparison to companies with broader product lines, greater technical service and support capabilities and larger research and development budgets. we may be unable to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors and our operating results may be adversely affected by increased competition or our inability to timely develop new products to meet the needs of our customers. shortage of raw materials or supply disruption of such raw materials could harm our business. the semiconductor industry has experienced a large expansion of fabrication capacity and production worldwide over time. as a result of increasing demand from semiconductor, solar and other manufacturers, availability of certain basic materials and supplies, and of subcontract services, has been limited from time to time over the past several years, and could come into short supply again if overall industry demand exceeds the supply of these materials and services in the future. we purchase materials and supplies from many suppliers, some of which are sole-sourced. if the availability of these materials and supplies is interrupted, we may not be able to find suitable replacements. in addition, from time to time natural disasters can lead to a shortage of some materials due to disruption of the manufacturer's production. we continually strive to maintain availability of all required materials, supplies and subcontract services. however, we do not have long-term agreements providing for all of these materials, supplies and services, and shortages could occur as a result of capacity limitations or production constraints on suppliers that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our production requirements. we may be liable for additional production costs and lost revenues to certain customers with whom we have entered into customer supply agreements if we are unable to meet certain product quantity and quality requirements. we enter into contracts with certain customers whereby we commit to supply quantities of specified parts at a predetermined scheduled delivery date. the number of such arrangements continues to increase as this practice becomes more commonplace. should we be unable to supply the customer with the specific part at the quantity and product quality desired and on the scheduled delivery date, the customer may incur additional production costs. in addition, the customer may lose revenues due to a delay in receiving the parts necessary to have the end-product ready for sale to its customers or due to product quality issues. under certain customer supply agreements, we may be liable for direct additional production costs or lost revenues. if products are not shipped on time or are quality deficient, we may be liable for penalties and resulting damages. such liability, should it arise, and/or our inability to meet these commitments to our customers may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could damage our relationships with the affected customers, reputation and goodwill. 12 if we fail to enter into future vendor managed inventory arrangements or fail to supply the specific product or quantity under such arrangements, the results of our operations and financial condition may be materially adversely impacted. we enter into arrangements with certain original equipment manufacturers ( oems ) and electronic manufacturing services ( ems ) partners to consign quantities of certain products within proximity of the oems and ems partners' manufacturing location. the inventory is physically segregated at these locations and we retain title and risk of loss related to this inventory until such time as the oem or ems partner pulls the inventory for use in its manufacturing process. once the inventory is pulled by the oem or ems partner, title and risk of loss pass to the customer, at which point we relieve inventory and recognize revenue and the related cost of goods sold. the specific quantities to be consigned are based on a forecast provided by the oem or ems partner. generally, the arrangements with the oems and ems partners provide for transfer of title and risk of loss once product has been consigned for a certain length of time. we believe these arrangements will continue to grow in terms of number of customers and products and will increase in proportion to consolidated net revenues. should we be unable or unwilling to enter into such agreements as requested by oems or ems partners, our results of operations may be materially adversely impacted. in addition, should we be unable to supply the specific product in the quantity needed by the oem or ems partner as reflected in their forecast, we may be liable for damages, including, but not limited to, lost revenues and increased production costs which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. should we supply product in excess of the oem or ems partners' actual usage, any inventory not consumed may become excess or obsolete, which would result in an inventory write off that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. our products may fail to meet new industry standards or requirements and the efforts to meet such industry standards or requirements could be costly. many of our products are based on industry standards that are continually evolving. our ability to compete in the future will depend on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with these evolving industry standards. the emergence of new industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major systems manufacturers. as a result, we could be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards or requirements, we could miss opportunities to achieve crucial design wins which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial results. extensions in lead-time for delivery of products could adversely affect our future growth opportunities and results of operations. supply constraints, which may include limitations in manufacturing capacity, could impede our ability to grow revenues and meet increased customer demands for our products. our results of operations may be adversely affected if we fail to meet such increase in demand for our products without significantly increasing the lead-time required for our delivery of such products. any significant increase in the lead-time for delivery of products may negatively affect our customer relationships, reputation as a dependable supplier of products and ability to obtain future design wins, while potentially increasing order cancellations, aged, unsaleable or otherwise unrealized backlog, and the likelihood of our breach of supply agreement terms. any of the foregoing factors could negatively affect our future revenue growth and results of operations. our financial results may be adversely affected by increased tax rates and exposure to additional tax liabilities. a number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including, but not limited to: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; changes in our global structure that involve an increased investment in technology outside of the united states to better align asset ownership and business functions with revenues and profits; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities, and in particular, the outcome of the internal revenue service audit of our tax returns for fiscal years 2009-2011 and fiscal years 2012-2014; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; 13 increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, including the base erosion and profit shifting ( beps ) project being conducted by the organization for economic co-operation and development ( oecd ); changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and the repatriation of non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. we are subject to taxation in various countries and jurisdictions. significant judgment is required to determine tax liabilities on a worldwide basis. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. exiting certain product lines or businesses, or restructuring our operations, may adversely affect certain customer relationships and produce results that differ from our intended outcomes. the nature of our business requires strategic changes from time to time, including restructuring our operations and divesting and consolidating certain product lines and businesses. the sale of facilities, or the exiting of certain product lines or businesses, may adversely affect certain customer relationships, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. additionally, our ability to timely shut down our facilities or otherwise exit product lines and businesses, or to close or consolidate operations, depends on a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. if we are unable to shutdown a facility or exit a product line or business in a timely manner, or to restructure our operations in a manner we deem to be advantageous, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. even if the sale of a facility or divestment is successful, we may face indemnity and other liability claims by the acquirer or other parties. political conditions could materially affect our revenues and results of operations. we are subject to the political and legal risks inherent in international operations. exposure to political instabilities, different business policies and varying legal standards could impact economic activity, which in turn could lead to a contraction of customer demand or a disruption in our operations. we have been impacted by these problems in the past, but none have materially affected our results of operations. problems in the future or not-yet-materialized consequences of past problems could affect deliveries of our products to our customers, possibly resulting in substantially delayed or lost sales and/or increased expenses that cannot be passed on to customers. material impairments of our goodwill or intangible assets could adversely affect our results of operations. goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if certain impairment indicators arise or upon the disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. the review compares the fair value for each reporting unit to its associated book value including goodwill. a decrease in the fair value associated with a reporting unit resulting from, among other things, unfavorable changes in the estimated future discounted cash flow of the reporting unit, may require us to recognize impairments of goodwill. our intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives, but they are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. if the sum of the future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of the intangible asset and its eventual disposition is less than the carrying amount of the asset, we would recognize an impairment loss to the extent the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions. the global economic environment could subject us to increased credit risk should customers be unable to pay us, or delay paying us, for previously purchased products. accordingly, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. in addition, weakness in the market for end users of our products could harm the cash flow of certain of our distributors and resellers who could then delay paying their obligations to us or experience other financial difficulties. this would further increase our credit risk exposure and potentially cause delays in our recognition of revenue on sales to these customers. 14 if economic or market conditions deteriorate globally, in the united states or in other key markets, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which could adversely impact our common stock price. we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. our operating results have in the past been, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly fluctuations as a result of numerous factors, some of which may contribute to more pronounced fluctuations in an uncertain global economic environment. these factors include, but are not limited to, the following: fluctuations in demand for our products and services; loss of a significant customer or significant customers electing to purchase from another supplier; reduced visibility into our customers' spending plans and associated revenue; the level of price and competition in our product markets; our pricing practices, including our use of available information to maximize pricing potential; the impact of the uncertain economic and credit environment on our customers, channel partners, and suppliers, including their ability to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures; the overall movement toward industry consolidations among our customers and competitors; below industry-average growth of the non-consumer segments of our business; announcements and introductions of new products by our competitors; our ability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flow to pay dividends to our stockholders; deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements (introduced by us or our competitors); our ability to meet increases in customer orders in a timely manner; striking an appropriate balance between short-term execution and long-term innovation; our ability to develop, introduce, and market new products and enhancements and market acceptance of such new products and enhancements; and our levels of operating expenses. our stock price may be volatile. the market price of our common stock may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. fluctuations have occurred and may continue to occur in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control. in addition, the market prices of securities of technology companies, including those in the semiconductor industry, generally have been and remain volatile. this volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. if our actual operating results or future forecasted results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, who may derive their expectations by extrapolating data from recent historical operating results, the market price of our common stock may decline. accordingly, you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at a price equal to or higher than the price you paid for them. due to the nature of our compensation programs, some of our executive officers sell shares of our common stock each quarter or otherwise periodically, including pursuant to trading plans established under rule 10b5-1 of the securities exchange act of 1934, 15 as amended. regardless of the reasons for such sales, analysts and investors could view such actions in a negative light and the market price of our stock could be adversely affected as a result of such periodic sales. our debt covenants may limit us from engaging in certain transactions or other activities. we have entered into debt arrangements that contain certain covenants which may limit the manner in which we conduct our business. for example, the debt indentures that govern our outstanding notes include covenants that, under certain circumstances, limit our ability to grant liens on our facilities and to enter into sale and leaseback transactions, which could limit our ability to secure additional debt funding in the future. in circumstances involving a change of control of the company followed by a downgrade of the rating of the notes, we would be required to make an offer to repurchase the affected notes at a purchase price greater than the aggregate principal amount of such notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. our ability to repurchase the notes in such events may be limited by our then-available financial resources or by the terms of other agreements to which we are a party. although we currently have the funds necessary to retire this debt, funds might not be available to repay the notes when they become due in the future. we also have access to a revolving credit facility with certain institutional lenders that contains certain covenants which may limit the manner in which we conduct our business. for example, the credit agreement requires that we maintain a maximum debt to ebitda (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization) ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio (ebitda divided by interest expense). we have no outstanding borrowings under the credit facility. we may use the proceeds of any future borrowing under the credit facility for general corporate purposes, or for future acquisitions or expansion of our business. we are required to comply with the covenants set forth in our debt indentures and credit facility. if we breach any of the covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the note holders or lenders, then, subject to cure periods, any outstanding indebtedness may be declared immediately due and payable. environmental, safety and health laws and regulations could force us to expend significant capital and incur substantial costs. various foreign and domestic federal, state, and local government agencies impose a variety of environmental, safety and health laws and regulations on the storage, handling, use, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals, gases and other substances used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process. historically, compliance with these regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive or financial position. there can be no assurance, however, that interpretation and enforcement of current or future environmental, safety and health laws and regulations will not impose costly requirements upon us. any failure by us to adequately control the storage, handling, use, discharge or disposal of regulated substances could result in fines, suspension of production, alteration of wafer fabrication processes and legal liability, which may materially adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. employee health benefit costs may negatively impact our profitability. with a large number of employees participating in our health benefit plans, our expenses relating to employee health benefits are substantial. in past years, we have experienced significant increases in certain of these costs, largely as a result of economic factors beyond our control, including, in particular, ongoing increases in health care costs well in excess of the rate of inflation. while we have attempted to control these costs in recent years, there can be no assurance that we will be as successful in controlling such costs in the future. continued increases in health care costs, as well as changes in laws, regulations and assumptions used to calculate health and benefit expenses, may adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. business interruptions from natural disasters could harm our ability to produce products. we operate our business in worldwide locations. some of our facilities and those of our subcontractors are located in geologically unstable areas of the world and are susceptible to damage from natural disasters. in the event of a natural disaster, we may suffer a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our results of operations. our financial condition, operations and liquidity may be materially adversely affected in the event of a catastrophic loss for which we are self-insured. we are primarily self-insured with respect to many of our commercial risks and exposures. based on management's assessment and judgment, we have determined that it is generally more cost effective to self-insure these risks. the risks and exposures we self-insure include, but are not limited to, fire, property and casualty, natural disasters, product defects, political risk, general liability, theft, counterfeits, patent infringement, certain employment practice matters and medical benefits for many of our u.s. 16 employees. should there be catastrophic loss from events such as fires, explosions, earthquakes, or other natural disasters, among many other risks, or adverse court or similar decisions in any area in which we are self-insured, our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity may be materially adversely affected. we may pursue acquisitions and investments that could harm our operating results and may disrupt our business. we have made and will continue to consider making strategic business investments, alliances, and acquisitions we consider necessary or desirable to gain access to key technologies that we believe will complement our existing technical capability and support our business model objectives. investments, alliances, and acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties that may negatively impact our future financial performance and result in an impairment of goodwill. if integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or suffer other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee. we may also need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. we also invest in early-to-late stage private companies to further our strategic objectives and support key business initiatives and may not realize a return on our investments. all of our investments are subject to a risk of a partial or total loss of investment capital. any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability from acquired businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of acquisitions. in addition, because acquisitions of high technology companies are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. we may be materially adversely affected by currency fluctuations or changes in trade policies. we conduct our manufacturing and other operations in various worldwide locations. a portion of our operating costs and expenses at foreign locations are paid in local currencies. many of the materials used in our products and much of the manufacturing process for our products are supplied by foreign companies or by our foreign operations, such as our test operations in the philippines and thailand. approximately 88% , 89% and 88% of our net revenues in fiscal years 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively, were from international sales. accordingly, both manufacturing and sales of our products may be adversely affected by political or economic conditions abroad. in addition, various forms of protectionist trade legislation are routinely proposed in the united states and certain foreign countries. a change in current tariff structures or other trade policies could adversely affect our foreign manufacturing or marketing strategies. currency exchange fluctuations could also decrease revenue and increase our operating costs, the cost of components manufactured abroad, and the cost of our products to foreign customers, or decrease the costs of products produced by our foreign competitors. we are subject to a variety of domestic and international laws and regulations, including the use of conflict minerals , u.s. customs and export regulations, and the foreign corrupt practices act. pursuant to section 1502 of the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010, the sec promulgated disclosure requirements for manufacturers of products containing certain minerals that are mined from the democratic republic of congo and adjoining countries. these conflict minerals are commonly found in metals used in the manufacture of semiconductors. manufacturers are also required to disclose their efforts to prevent the sourcing of such minerals and metals produced from them. the implementation of these new regulations may limit the sourcing and availability of some of the metals used in the manufacture of our products. the regulations may also reduce the number of suppliers who provide conflict-free metals, and may affect our ability to obtain products in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. finally, some of our customers may elect to disqualify us as a supplier if we are unable to verify that the metals used in our products are free of conflict minerals. among other laws and regulations, we are also subject to u.s. customs and export regulations, including u.s. international traffic and arms regulations and similar laws, which collectively control import, export and sale of technologies by companies and various other aspects of the operation of our business, and the foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws, which prohibit companies from making improper payments to government officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business. while our company's policies and procedures mandate compliance with such laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees and agents will always act in strict compliance. failure to comply with such laws and regulations may result in civil and criminal enforcement, including monetary fines and possible injunctions against shipment of product or other activities of the company, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. 17 our certificate of incorporation contains certain anti-takeover provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a hostile change in control of our company. our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to authorize the issuance of up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences and privileges and restrictions applicable to such shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. any such issuance might discourage, delay or prevent a hostile change in control of our company, which may be considered beneficial to our stockholders. 18 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 33 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and notes payable. see note 5: financial instruments in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. we do not use derivative financial instruments to hedge the ongoing risk of interest rate volatility. at june 24, 2017 , we maintained a significant portfolio of money market fund investments, which are included in cash and cash equivalents. these money market funds are generally invested only in u.s. government or agency securities and are all available on a daily basis. our short-term investments are in u.s. government securities. our long-term notes payable are all fixed rate securities and as such, we have no financial statement risk associated with changes in interest rates related to these notes. to assess the interest rate risk associated with our investment portfolio, we performed sensitivity analysis for our long-term notes as of june 24, 2017 , using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 100 basis 33 points increase in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. the discount rates used were based on the market interest rates in effect at june 24, 2017 . the sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in interest rates would result in a reduction in the fair values of our long-term notes of $78.4 million . foreign currency risk we generate less than 1.0% of our revenues in various global markets based on orders obtained in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we incur expenditures denominated in non-u.s. currencies, primarily the philippine peso associated with our manufacturing activities in the philippines, and expenditures for sales offices and research and development activities undertaken outside of the u.s. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates primarily on orders, cash flows for expenditures and accounts receivable from sales in these foreign currencies. we have established risk management strategies designed to reduce the impact of volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in the exchange rate for these currencies. these strategies reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rates movements. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. we routinely hedge our exposure to certain foreign currencies with various financial institutions in an effort to minimize the impact of certain currency exchange rate fluctuations. if a financial counterparty to any of our hedging arrangements experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of the foreign currency hedge, we may experience financial losses. for derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges under asc no. 815- derivatives and hedging ( asc 815 ), the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income or loss and reclassified into earnings into the same financial statement line as the item being hedged, and in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. gains and losses on the derivative representing either hedge ineffectiveness or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized each period in interest and other income (expense), net. for derivative instruments that are not designated as hedging instruments under asc 815, gains and losses are recognized each period in interest and other income (expense), net. all derivatives are foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain foreign currency denominated assets or liabilities. the gains and losses on these derivatives largely offset the changes in the fair value of the assets or liabilities being hedged. as of june 24, 2017 , we had outstanding foreign currency derivative contracts with a total notional amount of $102.6 million . if overall foreign currency exchange rates appreciated (depreciated) uniformly by 10% against the u.s. dollar, our foreign currency derivative contracts outstanding as of june 24, 2017 would experience an approximately $5.9 million loss (gain). foreign exchange contracts the net unrealized gain or loss, if any, is potentially subject to market and credit risk as it represents appreciation (decline) of the hedge position against the spot exchange rates. the net realized and unrealized gains or losses from hedging foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities were immaterial during the fiscal years ended june 24, 2017 and june 25, 2016 .risk factors 9 risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also adversely affect our business. the sale of our products and our results of operations are dependent upon demand from the end markets of our customers, which is cyclical. our products are sold in the following major end-markets: (i) automotive, (ii) communications and data center, (iii) computing, (iv) consumer, and (v) industrial. the demand for our products is subject to the strength of these five major end-markets that we serve and to some extent the overall economic climate. we often experience decreases and increases in demand for our products primarily due to the end-market demand of our customers. our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if demand for our products decreases or if we are unable to meet an increase in demand without significantly increasing the lead-time for the delivery of our products. the semiconductor market historically has been cyclical with periods of increased demand and rapid growth followed by periods of oversupply and subsequent contraction and subject to significant and often rapid increases and decreases in product demand. as a result, changes could have adverse effects on our results of operation. incorrect forecasts, reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products and volatility in customer demand could adversely affect our results of operations. as is customary in the semiconductor industry, customer orders may be canceled in most cases without penalty to the customers. some customers place orders that require us to manufacture products and have them available for shipment, even though the customer may be unwilling to make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the products. in other cases, we manufacture products based on forecasts of customer demands. as a result, we may incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales and are subject to the risk of cancellations of orders, potentially leading to an initial inflation of backlog followed by a sharp reduction. because of the possibility of order cancellation, backlog should not be used as a measure of future revenues. furthermore, canceled or unrealized orders, especially for products meeting unique customer requirements, may also result in an inventory of unsaleable products, causing potential inventory write-offs, some of which could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our gross margins and results of operations. we may experience difficulties implementing our new global execution system, which may adversely affect our ability to effectively supply products to our customers. we are implementing a new global execution system ( ges ) as part of our efforts to integrate inventory movement with our financial reporting system. this implementation is a major undertaking and requires significant employee time and financial resources. while we have invested significant resources in planning and project management, implementation issues may arise. for example, we may experience staff turnover, which may delay the implementation of ges. additionally, unforeseen issues may arise, which could disrupt the implementation of ges. any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design and the implementation or operation of ges could disrupt or reduce our supply chain execution and operational efficiency which may lead to our inability to effectively supply products to our customers. our inability to successfully manage the implementation of ges could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. our operating results may be adversely affected by our inability to timely develop new products through our research and development efforts. we may be unsuccessful in developing and selling new products necessary to maintain or expand our business. the marketplace for our products is constantly changing and we are required to make substantial ongoing investments in our research and development. the semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological change, variations in manufacturing efficiencies of new products, and significant expenditures for capital equipment and product development. new product introductions are a critical factor for maintaining or increasing future revenue growth and sustained or increased profitability. however, they can present significant business challenges because product development commitments and expenditures must be made well in advance of the related revenues. the success of a new product depends on a variety of factors including accurate forecasts of long-term market demand and future technological developments, accurate anticipation of competitors' actions and offerings, timely and efficient completion of process design and development, timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing and assembly processes, product performance, quality and reliability of the product, and effective marketing, revenue and service. 9 the loss of, or substantial reduction in sales to, any of our large customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. a reduction in demand or loss of one or more of our large customers may adversely affect our business. for example, sales to samsung, our largest single end customer (through direct sales and distributors), accounted for approximately 10% , 10% and 14% of net revenues in fiscal years 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , respectively. the delay, significant reduction in, or loss of, orders from any one or more of our large customers (including curtailments of purchases due to a change in the design, manufacturing or sourcing policies or practices of these customers or the timing of customer inventory adjustments) or demands of price concessions from any one or more of our large customers could have a material adverse effect on our net revenues and results of operations. our manufacturing operations may be interrupted or suffer yield problems. the manufacture and design of integrated circuits is highly complex. we may experience a disruption in factory operations, manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields, or product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, outdated infrastructure, upgrading or expanding existing facilities, equipment malfunctioning, construction delays, changing our process technologies, capacity constraints, or new technology qualification delays, particularly in our internal fabrication facilities. for example, our internal fabrication facility at beaverton, oregon requires additional investment to, among other things, upgrade its infrastructure and manufacturing equipment. in connection with the upgrading of our facilities, we may experience a disruption in factory operations, which could result in damages to the facilities and stoppages to the operations of the facilities. additionally, our internal fabrication facilities may be harmed or rendered inoperable due to damages resulting from fire, natural disaster, unavailability of electric power or other causes, which may render it difficult or impossible for us to manufacture our products for some period of time. if our internal fabrication facilities become unavailable to us, it would be time consuming, difficult, and costly to arrange for new manufacturing facilities to supply our products given the nature of our products. in addition, our third party's manufacturing facilities may not be available to us due to natural or man-made disasters, labor unrest, political conditions or other causes. to the extent we experience disruptions at our wafer fabrication facilities or we do not achieve acceptable manufacturing yields, our results of operations could be adversely affected. our dependence on subcontractors for assembly, test, freight, wafer fabrication and logistic services and certain manufacturing services may cause delays beyond our control in delivering products to our customers. we rely on subcontractors located in various parts of the world for assembly and csp packaging services, freight and logistic services, wafer fabrication, and sorting and testing services. for example, in connection with the sale of our semiconductor wafer fabrication facility in san antonio, texas to towerjazz texas, inc. (formerly known as tj texas, inc.) ("towerjazz"), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of tower semiconductor ltd. ( tower ), in the third quarter of fiscal year 2016, we entered into a long-term supply agreement with towerjazz, pursuant to which we procure from towerjazz certain quantities of silicon wafers upon which integrated circuits are made that are designed by us. none of the subcontractors we currently use are affiliated with us. reliability problems experienced by our subcontractors or the inability to promptly replace any subcontractor could cause serious problems in delivery and quality resulting in potential product liability to us. such problems could impair our ability to meet our revenue plan in the fiscal year period impacted by the disruption. failure to meet the revenue plan may materially adversely impact our results of operations. any disruptions in our sort, assembly, test, freight, and logistic operations or in the operations of our subcontractors, including, but not limited to, the inability or unwillingness of any of our subcontractors to produce or timely deliver adequate supplies of processed wafers, integrated circuit packages, or tested products conforming to our quality standards, or other required products or services could damage our reputation, relationships, and goodwill with customers. furthermore, finding alternate sources of supply or initiating internal wafer processing for these products may not be economically feasible. if we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business may be harmed. our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our chief executive officer, our other executive officers, and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers and business unit managers, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. the loss of the services of one or several of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our company. in addition, we could be materially adversely affected if the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increases significantly or we are unsuccessful in attracting, motivating and retaining qualified personnel. should we lose one or more engineers who are key to a project's completion during the course of a particular 10 project, the completion of such project may be delayed which could negatively affect customer relationships and goodwill and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our critical information systems are subject to cyber-attacks, interruptions and failures. we rely on several information technology systems to provide products and services, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers, keep financial, employee, and other records, and operate other critical functions. these information technology systems are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources. security breaches, including cyber-attacks, phishing attacks or attempts to misappropriate or compromise confidential or proprietary information or sabotage enterprise information technology systems, are becoming increasingly frequent and more sophisticated. we currently have, and are in the process of developing several more, systems and procedures that include, among other things, ongoing internal risk assessments to identify vulnerabilities, an internal group dedicated to reviewing cybersecurity threats, and the adoption of an information security policy. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage networks and systems change frequently, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate protections. despite our efforts to mitigate risks associated with cybersecurity events, our information technology systems may be susceptible to adaptive persistent threats, catastrophic cybersecurity attacks, damage, disruptions, or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, computer malware and viruses, telecommunication failures, user errors, or other events. risks associated with these threats include, but are not limited to, loss of intellectual property, impairment of our ability to conduct our operations, disruption of our customers' operations, loss or damage to our customer data delivery systems, and increased costs to prevent, respond to or mitigate catastrophic cybersecurity events. a prolonged systemic disruption in the information technology systems could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant consequential costs, which could adversely affect our business. in addition, cybersecurity breaches of our information technology systems could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our customers, partners, suppliers, or employees which could result in our suffering significant financial or reputational damage. our results of operations could be adversely affected by warranty claims and product liability. we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability suits in connection with reliability problems or other product defects that may affect our customers. our products are used by a variety of industries, including the automotive and medical industries. failure of our products to perform to specifications, or other product defects, could lead to substantial damage to both the end product in which our device has been placed and to the user of such end product. although we take measures to protect against product defects, if a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and any adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may impact our ability to compete effectively. we rely upon know-how, trade secrets, and patents to develop and maintain our competitive position. there can be no assurance that others will not develop or patent similar technology or reverse engineer our products or that the confidentiality agreements upon which we rely will be adequate to protect our interests. moreover, the laws of some foreign countries generally do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the united states, and we may encounter problems in protecting our proprietary rights in those foreign countries. periodically, we have been asked by certain prospective customers to provide them with broad licenses to our intellectual property rights in connection with the sale of our products to them. such licenses, if granted, may have a negative impact on the value of our intellectual property portfolio. other companies have obtained patents covering a variety of semiconductor designs and processes, and we could be required to obtain licenses under some of these patents or be precluded from making and selling products that are alleged to be infringing, if such patents are valid and other design and manufacturing solutions are not available. there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain licenses, if required, upon commercially reasonable terms or at all. we may suffer losses and business interruption if our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others. in the past, it has been common in the semiconductor industry for patent holders to offer licenses on reasonable terms and rates. although the practice of offering licenses appears to be generally continuing, in some situations, typically where the patent directly relates to a specific product or family of products, patent holders have refused to grant licenses. in any of those cases, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain any necessary license on terms acceptable to us, if at all, or that we would be able to re-engineer our products or processes in a cost-effective manner to avoid claims of infringement. any litigation in such a situation could involve an injunction to prevent the sales of a material portion of our products, the reduction or elimination of the value of related inventories and the assessment of a substantial monetary award for damages related to past sales, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 11 we may experience losses related to intellectual property indemnity claims. we provide intellectual property indemnification for certain customers, distributors, suppliers and subcontractors for attorney fees and damages and costs awarded against these parties in certain circumstances in which our products are alleged to infringe third party intellectual property rights, including patents, registered trademarks and copyrights. in certain cases, there are limits on and exceptions to our potential liability for indemnification relating to intellectual property infringement claims. we cannot estimate the amount of potential future payments, if any, that we might be required to make as a result of these agreements. to date, we have not been required to pay significant amounts for intellectual property indemnification claims. however, there can be no assurance that we will not have significant financial exposure under those intellectual property indemnification obligations in the future. our independent distributors and sales representatives may underperform relative to our expectations, terminate their relationship with us or fail to make payments on outstanding accounts receivable to us, which would adversely affect our financial results. a portion of our sales is realized through independent electronics distributors that are not under our direct control. these independent sales organizations generally represent product lines offered by several companies and thus could underperform for various reasons, including as a result of reducing their sales efforts applied to our products, or terminate their distribution relationship with us. in fiscal 2018 , 47% of our revenues were generated from distributors, the largest of which was avnet, our primary world-wide distributor, which accounted for 25% of our revenues. we require certain foreign distributors to provide a letter of credit to us in an amount up to the credit limit set for accounts receivable from such foreign distributors. the letter of credit provides for collection on accounts receivable from the foreign distributor should the foreign distributor default on their accounts receivable to us. where credit limits have been established above the amount of the letter of credit, we are exposed for the difference. we do not require letters of credit from any of our domestic distributors and are not contractually protected against accounts receivable default or bankruptcy by these distributors. the inability to collect open accounts receivable could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. termination of a significant distributor, whether at our or the distributor's initiative, or the general underperformance of a significant distributor could be disruptive and harmful to our current business. shortage of raw materials or supply disruption of such raw materials could harm our business. the semiconductor industry has experienced a large expansion of fabrication capacity and production worldwide over time. as a result of increasing demand from semiconductor, solar and other manufacturers, availability of certain basic materials and supplies, and of subcontract services, has been limited from time to time over the past several years, and could come into short supply again if overall industry demand exceeds the supply of these materials and services in the future. we purchase materials and supplies from many suppliers, some of which are sole-sourced. if the availability of these materials and supplies is interrupted, we may not be able to find suitable replacements. in addition, from time to time natural disasters can lead to a shortage of some materials due to disruption of the manufacturer's production. we continually strive to maintain availability of all required materials, supplies and subcontract services. however, we do not have long-term agreements providing for all of these materials, supplies and services, and shortages could occur as a result of capacity limitations or production constraints on suppliers that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our production requirements. we may be liable for additional production costs and lost revenues to certain customers with whom we have entered into customer supply agreements if we are unable to meet certain product quantity and quality requirements. we enter into contracts with certain customers whereby we commit to supply quantities of specified parts at a predetermined scheduled delivery date. the number of such arrangements continues to increase as this practice becomes more commonplace. should we be unable to supply the customer with the specific part at the quantity and product quality desired and on the scheduled delivery date, the customer may incur additional production costs. in addition, the customer may lose revenues due to a delay in receiving the parts necessary to have the end-product ready for sale to its customers or due to product quality issues. under certain customer supply agreements, we may be liable for direct additional production costs or lost revenues. if products are not shipped on time or are quality deficient, we may be liable for penalties and resulting damages. such liability, should it arise, and/or our inability to meet these commitments to our customers may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could damage our relationships with the affected customers, reputation and goodwill. if we fail to enter into future vendor managed inventory arrangements or fail to supply the specific product or quantity under such arrangements, the results of our operations and financial condition may be materially adversely impacted. 12 we enter into arrangements with certain original equipment manufacturers ( oems ) and electronic manufacturing services ( ems ) partners to consign quantities of certain products within proximity of the oems and ems partners' manufacturing location. the inventory is physically segregated at these locations and we retain title and risk of loss related to this inventory until such time as the oem or ems partner pulls the inventory for use in its manufacturing process. once the inventory is pulled by the oem or ems partner, title and risk of loss pass to the customer, at which point we relieve inventory and recognize revenue and the related cost of goods sold. the specific quantities to be consigned are based on a forecast provided by the oem or ems partner. generally, the arrangements with the oems and ems partners provide for transfer of title and risk of loss once product has been consigned for a certain length of time. we believe these arrangements will continue to grow in terms of number of customers and products and will increase in proportion to consolidated net revenues. should we be unable or unwilling to enter into such agreements as requested by oems or ems partners, our results of operations may be materially adversely impacted. in addition, should we be unable to supply the specific product in the quantity needed by the oem or ems partner as reflected in their forecast, we may be liable for damages, including, but not limited to, lost revenues and increased production costs which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. should we supply product in excess of the oem or ems partners' actual usage, any inventory not consumed may become excess or obsolete, which would result in an inventory write off that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. our products may fail to meet new industry standards or requirements and the efforts to meet such industry standards or requirements could be costly. many of our products are based on industry standards that are continually evolving. our ability to compete in the future will depend on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with these evolving industry standards. the emergence of new industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major systems manufacturers. as a result, we could be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards or requirements, we could miss opportunities to achieve crucial design wins which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial results. our operating results may be adversely affected by increased competition and consolidation of competitors in our market. the semiconductor industry has experienced significant consolidation in recent years. as a result, we experience intense competition from a number of companies, some of which have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, and marketing resources than us, as well as greater technical resources and proprietary intellectual property rights than us. the principal elements of competition include product performance, functional value, quality and reliability, technical service and support, price, diversity of product line, and sale of integrated system solutions which combine the functionality of multiple chips on one chip for a price as part of a complete system solution and delivery capabilities. we believe we compete favorably with respect to these factors, although we may be at a disadvantage in comparison to companies with broader product lines, greater technical service and support capabilities and larger research and development budgets. we may be unable to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors and our operating results may be adversely affected by increased competition or our inability to timely develop new products to meet the needs of our customers. extensions in lead-time for delivery of products could adversely affect our future growth opportunities and results of operations. supply constraints, which may include limitations in manufacturing capacity, could impede our ability to grow revenues and meet increased customer demands for our products. our results of operations may be adversely affected if we fail to meet such increase in demand for our products without significantly increasing the lead-time required for our delivery of such products. any significant increase in the lead-time for delivery of products may negatively affect our customer relationships, reputation as a dependable supplier of products and ability to obtain future design wins, while potentially increasing order cancellations, aged, unsaleable or otherwise unrealized backlog, and the likelihood of our breach of supply agreement terms. any of the foregoing factors could negatively affect our future revenue growth and results of operations. our financial results may be adversely affected by increased tax rates and exposure to additional tax liabilities. a number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including, but not limited to: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; 13 changes in our global structure that involve changes to investment in technology outside of the united states; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities and, in particular, the outcome of the internal revenue service audit of our tax returns for fiscal years 2009-2011 and fiscal years 2012-2014; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, including laws or rules enacted by countries in response to the base erosion and profit shifting ( beps ) project conducted by the organization for economic co-operation and development ( oecd ); and changes in generally accepted accounting principles. we are subject to taxation in various countries and jurisdictions. significant judgment is required to determine tax liabilities on a worldwide basis. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. we are subject to a variety of domestic and international laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs on us and may adversely affect our business. we are subject to numerous u.s. and international laws, rules and regulations covering a wide variety of subject matters, including, but not limited to, data privacy and protection, environment, safety and health, exports and imports, bribery and corruption, tax, labor and employment, competition, market access, and intellectual property ownership and infringement. compliance with these laws, rules and regulations may be onerous and expensive and could restrict our ability to operate our business. if we fail to comply or if we become subject to enforcement activity, we could be subject to fines, penalties or other legal liability. furthermore, should these laws, rules and regulations be amended or expanded, or new ones enacted, we could incur materially greater compliance costs or restrictions on our ability to operate our business. among other laws and regulations, we are subject to the general data protection regulation effective in the european union, u.s. customs and export regulations, including u.s. international traffic and arms regulations and similar laws, which collectively control import, export and sale of technologies by companies and various other aspects of the operation of our business, and the foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws, which prohibit companies from making improper payments to government officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business. while our company's policies and procedures mandate compliance with such laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees and agents will always act in strict compliance. if we fail to comply or if we become subject to enforcement activity, we could be subject to fines, penalties or other legal liability. furthermore, should these laws, rules and regulations be amended or expanded, or new ones enacted, we could incur materially greater compliance costs or restrictions on our ability to operate our business, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. political conditions could materially affect our revenues and results of operations. we are subject to the political and legal risks inherent in international operations. exposure to political instabilities, different business policies and varying legal or regulatory standards, including, but not limited to, international trade disputes, could result in the imposition of tariffs and trade restrictions or barriers, which could impact economic activity and lead to a contraction of customer demand. international trade disputes could also result in various forms of protectionist trade legislation and other protectionist measures that could limit the company's ability to operate its business and have a negative effect on end-market demand, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. we have been impacted by these problems in the past, but none have materially affected our results of operations. problems in the future or not-yet- 14 materialized consequences of past problems could affect deliveries of our products to our customers, possibly resulting in substantially delayed or lost sales and/or increased expenses that cannot be passed on to our customers. our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions. the global economic environment could subject us to increased credit risk should customers be unable to pay us, or delay paying us, for previously purchased products. accordingly, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. in addition, weakness in the market for end users of our products could harm the cash flow of certain of our distributors and resellers who could then delay paying their obligations to us or experience other financial difficulties. this would further increase our credit risk exposure and potentially cause delays in our recognition of revenue on sales to these customers. if economic or market conditions deteriorate globally, in the united states or in other key markets, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which could adversely impact our common stock price. we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. our operating results have in the past been, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly fluctuations as a result of numerous factors, some of which may contribute to more pronounced fluctuations in an uncertain global economic environment. these factors include, but are not limited to, the following: fluctuations in demand for our products and services; loss of a significant customer or significant customers electing to purchase from another supplier; reduced visibility into our customers' spending plans and associated revenue; the level of price and competition in our product markets; our pricing practices, including our use of available information to maximize pricing potential; the impact of the uncertain economic and credit environment on our customers, channel partners, and suppliers, including their ability to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures; the overall movement toward industry consolidations among our customers and competitors; below industry-average growth of the non-consumer segments of our business; announcements and introductions of new products by our competitors; our ability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flow to pay dividends to our stockholders; deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements (introduced by us or our competitors); our ability to meet increases in customer orders in a timely manner; striking an appropriate balance between short-term execution and long-term innovation; our ability to develop, introduce, and market new products and enhancements and market acceptance of such new products and enhancements; and our levels of operating expenses. our stock price may be volatile. the market price of our common stock may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. fluctuations have occurred and may continue to occur in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control. 15 in addition, the market prices of securities of technology companies, including those in the semiconductor industry, generally have been and remain volatile. this volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. if our actual operating results or future forecasted results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, who may derive their expectations by extrapolating data from recent historical operating results, the market price of our common stock may decline. accordingly, you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at a price equal to or higher than the price you paid for them. due to the nature of our compensation programs, some of our executive officers sell shares of our common stock each quarter or otherwise periodically, including pursuant to trading plans established under rule 10b5-1 of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. regardless of the reasons for such sales, analysts and investors could view such actions in a negative light and the market price of our stock could be adversely affected as a result of such periodic sales. material impairments of our goodwill or intangible assets could adversely affect our results of operations. goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if certain impairment indicators arise or upon the disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. the review compares the fair value for each reporting unit to its associated book value including goodwill. a decrease in the fair value associated with a reporting unit resulting from, among other things, unfavorable changes in the estimated future discounted cash flow of the reporting unit, may require us to recognize impairments of goodwill. our intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives, but they are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. if the sum of the future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of the intangible asset and its eventual disposition is less than the carrying amount of the asset, we would recognize an impairment loss to the extent the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. our debt covenants may limit us from engaging in certain transactions or other activities. we have entered into debt arrangements that contain certain covenants which may limit the manner in which we conduct our business. for example, the debt indentures that govern our outstanding notes include covenants that, under certain circumstances, limit our ability to grant liens on our facilities and to enter into sale and leaseback transactions, which could limit our ability to secure additional debt funding in the future. in circumstances involving a change of control of the company followed by a downgrade of the rating of the notes, we would be required to make an offer to repurchase the affected notes at a purchase price greater than the aggregate principal amount of such notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. our ability to repurchase the notes in such events may be limited by our then-available financial resources or by the terms of other agreements to which we are a party. although we currently have the funds necessary to retire this debt, funds might not be available to repay the notes when they become due in the future. we also have access to a revolving credit facility with certain institutional lenders that contains certain covenants which may limit the manner in which we conduct our business. for example, the credit agreement requires that we maintain a maximum debt to ebitda (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization) ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio (ebitda divided by interest expense). we have no outstanding borrowings under the credit facility. we may use the proceeds of any future borrowing under the credit facility for general corporate purposes, or for future acquisitions or expansion of our business. we are required to comply with the covenants set forth in our debt indentures and credit facility. if we breach any of the covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the note holders or lenders, then, subject to cure periods, any outstanding indebtedness may be declared immediately due and payable. environmental, safety and health laws and regulations could force us to expend significant capital and incur substantial costs. various foreign and domestic federal, state, and local government agencies impose a variety of environmental, safety and health laws and regulations on the storage, handling, use, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals, gases and other substances used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process. historically, compliance with these regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive or financial position. there can be no assurance, however, that interpretation and enforcement of current or future environmental, safety and health laws and regulations will not impose costly requirements upon us. any failure by us to adequately control the storage, handling, use, discharge or disposal of regulated substances could result in fines, suspension of production, alteration of wafer fabrication processes and legal liability, which may materially adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. business interruptions from natural disasters could harm our ability to produce products. 16 we operate our business in worldwide locations. some of our facilities and those of our subcontractors are located in geologically unstable areas of the world and are susceptible to damage from natural disasters. in the event of a natural disaster, we may suffer a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our results of operations. our financial condition, operations and liquidity may be materially adversely affected in the event of a catastrophic loss for which we are self-insured. we are primarily self-insured with respect to many of our commercial risks and exposures. based on management's assessment and judgment, we have determined that it is generally more cost effective to self-insure these risks. the risks and exposures we self-insure include, but are not limited to, fire, property and casualty, natural disasters, product defects, political risk, general liability, theft, counterfeits, patent infringement, certain employment practice matters and medical benefits for many of our u.s. employees. should there be catastrophic loss from events such as fires, explosions, earthquakes, or other natural disasters, among many other risks, or adverse court or similar decisions in any area in which we are self-insured, our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity may be materially adversely affected. we may pursue acquisitions and investments that could harm our operating results and may disrupt our business. we have made and will continue to consider making strategic business investments, alliances, and acquisitions we consider necessary or desirable to gain access to key technologies that we believe will complement our existing technical capability and support our business model objectives. investments, alliances, and acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties that may negatively impact our future financial performance and result in an impairment of goodwill. if integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or suffer other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee. we may also need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. we also invest in early-to-late stage private companies to further our strategic objectives and support key business initiatives. these strategic investments may not perform as expected. we cannot provide assurance that these companies will operate in a manner that will increase or maintain the value of our investment. if these private companies fail, we may not realize a return on our investments. thus, all of our investments are subject to a risk of a partial or total loss of investment capital. any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability from acquired businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of acquisitions. in addition, because acquisitions of high technology companies are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. exiting certain product lines or businesses, or restructuring our operations, may adversely affect certain customer relationships and produce results that differ from our intended outcomes. the nature of our business requires strategic changes from time to time, including restructuring our operations and divesting and consolidating certain product lines and businesses. the sale of facilities, or the exiting of certain product lines or businesses, may adversely affect certain customer relationships, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. additionally, our ability to timely shut down our facilities or otherwise exit product lines and businesses, or to close or consolidate operations, depends on a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. if we are unable to shut down a facility or exit a product line or business in a timely manner, or to restructure our operations in a manner we deem to be advantageous, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. even if the sale of a facility or divestment is successful, we may face indemnity and other liability claims by the acquirer or other parties. we may be materially adversely affected by currency fluctuations or changes in trade policies, including international trade disputes. we conduct our manufacturing and other operations in various worldwide locations. a portion of our operating costs and expenses at foreign locations are paid in local currencies. many of the materials used in our products and much of the manufacturing process for our products are supplied by foreign companies or by our foreign operations, such as our test operations in the philippines and thailand. approximately 88% , 88% and 89% of our net revenues in fiscal years 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , respectively, were from international sales. accordingly, both manufacturing and sales of our products may be adversely affected by political or economic conditions abroad. in addition, various forms of protectionist trade legislation are routinely proposed in the united states and certain foreign countries. international trade disputes and changes in trade policies could result in the imposition of tariffs and 17 trade restrictions, which could adversely affect our foreign manufacturing or marketing strategies and have a negative impact on end-market demand. currency exchange fluctuations could also decrease revenue and increase our operating costs, the cost of components manufactured abroad, and the cost of our products to foreign customers, or decrease the costs of products produced by our foreign competitors. employee health benefit costs may negatively impact our profitability. with a large number of employees participating in our health benefit plans, our expenses relating to employee health benefits are substantial. in past years, we have experienced significant increases in certain of these costs, largely as a result of economic factors beyond our control, including, in particular, ongoing increases in health care costs well in excess of the rate of inflation. while we have attempted to control these costs in recent years, there can be no assurance that we will be as successful in controlling such costs in the future. continued increases in health care costs, as well as changes in laws, regulations and assumptions used to calculate health and benefit expenses, may adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. our certificate of incorporation contains certain anti-takeover provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a hostile change in control of our company. our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to authorize the issuance of up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences and privileges and restrictions applicable to such shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. any such issuance might discourage, delay or prevent a hostile change in control of our company, which may be considered beneficial to our stockholders. 18 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 33 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and notes payable. see note 5: financial instruments in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. we do not use derivative financial instruments to hedge the ongoing risk of interest rate volatility. at june 30, 2018 , we maintained a significant portfolio of money market fund investments, which are included in cash and cash equivalents. these money market funds are generally invested only in u.s. government or agency securities and are all available on a daily basis. our short-term investments are in u.s. government, corporate and bank debt securities. our long-term notes payable are all fixed rate securities and as such, we have no financial statement risk associated with changes in interest rates related to these notes. to assess the interest rate risk associated with our outstanding long-term debt portfolio, we performed sensitivity analysis for our long-term notes as of june 30, 2018 , using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. the discount rates used were based on the market interest rates in effect at june 30, 2018 . the sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in interest rates would result in a reduction in the fair values of our long-term notes of $57.2 million . foreign currency risk 33 we generate less than 1.0% of our revenues in various global markets based on orders obtained in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we incur expenditures denominated in non-u.s. currencies, primarily the philippine peso and the thai baht associated with our manufacturing activities in the philippines and thailand, respectively, and expenditures for sales offices and research and development activities undertaken outside of the u.s. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates primarily on orders, cash flows for expenditures and accounts receivable from sales in these foreign currencies. we have established risk management strategies designed to reduce the impact of volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in the exchange rate for these currencies. these strategies reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. we routinely hedge our exposure to certain foreign currencies with various financial institutions in an effort to minimize the impact of certain currency exchange rate fluctuations. if a financial counterparty to any of our hedging arrangements experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of the foreign currency hedge, we may experience financial losses. for derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges under asc no. 815, derivatives and hedging ( asc 815 ), the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income or loss and reclassified into earnings into the same financial statement line as the item being hedged, and in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. gains and losses on the derivative representing either hedge ineffectiveness or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized each period in interest and other income (expense), net. for derivative instruments that are not designated as hedging instruments under asc 815, gains and losses are recognized each period in interest and other income (expense), net. all derivatives are foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain foreign currency denominated assets or liabilities. the gains and losses on these derivatives largely offset the changes in the fair value of the assets or liabilities being hedged. as of june 30, 2018 , we had outstanding foreign currency derivative contracts with a total notional amount of $93.3 million . if overall foreign currency exchange rates appreciated (depreciated) uniformly by 10% against the u.s. dollar, our foreign currency derivative contracts outstanding as of june 30, 2018 would experience an approximately $4.8 million gain (loss). foreign exchange contracts the net unrealized gain or loss, if any, is potentially subject to market and credit risk as it represents appreciation (decline) of the hedge position against the spot exchange rates. the net realized and unrealized gains or losses from hedging foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities were immaterial during the fiscal years ended june 30, 2018 and june 24, 2017 .risk factors 9 risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also adversely affect our business. the sale of our products and our results of operations are dependent upon demand from the end markets of our customers, which is cyclical. our products are sold in the following major end-markets: (i) automotive, (ii) communications and data center, (iii) computing, (iv) consumer, and (v) industrial. the demand for our products is subject to the strength of these five major end-markets that we serve and to some extent the overall economic climate. we often experience decreases and increases in demand for our products primarily due to the end-market demand of our customers. our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if demand for our products decreases or if we are unable to meet an increase in demand without significantly increasing the lead-time for the delivery of our products. the semiconductor market historically has been cyclical with periods of increased demand and rapid growth followed by periods of oversupply and subsequent contraction and subject to significant and often rapid increases and decreases in product demand. as a result, changes could have adverse effects on our results of operation. the loss of, or substantial reduction in sales to, any of our large customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. a reduction in demand or loss of one or more of our large customers may adversely affect our business. for example, sales to samsung, our largest single end customer (through direct sales and distributors), accounted for approximately 10% of net revenues in fiscal years 2019, 2018 and 2017. the delay, significant reduction in, or loss of, orders from any one or more of our large customers (including curtailments of purchases due to a change in the design, manufacturing or sourcing policies or practices of these customers or the timing of customer inventory adjustments) or demands of price concessions from any one or more of our large customers could have a material adverse effect on our net revenues and results of operations. our global operations subject us to risks associated with changes in trade policies, including international trade disputes, and domestic or international political, social, economic or other conditions. we are subject to the political and legal risks inherent in international operations. exposure to political instabilities, different business policies and varying legal or regulatory standards, including, but not limited to, international trade disputes, could result in the imposition of tariffs, sanctions, restrictions on the u.s. import and export controls and other trade restrictions or barriers, which could negatively impact economic activity and lead to a contraction of customer demand. for example, in 2018, the u.s. and china began to impose partial tariffs on each other's products, and the trade tension between the two countries has escalated in 2019. in addition, the u.s. has and may continue to focus on the business practices of specific foreign companies, including large technology companies based in china, which may result in future u.s. government actions impacting our ability to do business with such companies. the possibility of a deteriorating trade relationship may put us at a disadvantage in competition with non-u.s. companies and lead to a decreased customer demand for our products in the long-term due to the growing economic risks and geopolitical uncertainty between the u.s. and china. international trade disputes could also result in various forms of protectionist trade legislation and other protectionist measures that could limit the company's ability to operate its business and have a negative effect on end-market demand, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, political and economic changes or volatility, political unrest, civil strife, public corruption and other economic or political uncertainties in certain countries, such as the philippines, could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations. we have been impacted by these problems in the past, but none have materially affected our results of operations. problems in the future or not-yet-materialized consequences of past problems could affect deliveries of our products to our customers, possibly resulting in business interruptions, substantially delayed or lost sales and/or increased expenses that cannot be passed on to our customers, any of which could ultimately have a material adverse effect on our business. incorrect forecasts, reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products and volatility in customer demand could adversely affect our results of operations. as is customary in the semiconductor industry, customer orders may be canceled in most cases without penalty to the customers. some customers place orders that require us to manufacture products and have them available for shipment, even though the customer may be unwilling to make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the products. in other cases, we manufacture products based on forecasts of customer demands. as a result, we may incur inventory and manufacturing costs in 9 advance of anticipated sales and are subject to the risk of cancellations of orders, potentially leading to an initial inflation of backlog followed by a sharp reduction. because of the possibility of order cancellation, backlog should not be used as a measure of future revenues. furthermore, canceled or unrealized orders, especially for products meeting unique customer requirements, may also result in an inventory of unsaleable products, causing potential inventory write-downs, some of which could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our gross margins and results of operations. we may experience difficulties implementing our new global execution system, which may adversely affect our ability to effectively supply products to our customers. we have been implementing a new global execution system ( ges ) as part of our efforts to integrate inventory movement with our financial reporting system. this implementation is a major undertaking and requires significant employee time and financial resources. while we have invested significant resources in planning and project management, implementation issues may arise. for example, we may experience staff turnover, which may delay the implementation of ges. additionally, unforeseen issues may arise, which could disrupt the implementation of ges. any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design and the implementation or operation of ges could disrupt or reduce our supply chain execution and operational efficiency which may lead to our inability to effectively supply products to our customers and may impact the accuracy of our financial reporting. our inability to successfully manage the implementation of ges could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. our operating results may be adversely affected by our inability to timely develop new products through our research and development efforts. we may be unsuccessful in developing and selling new products necessary to maintain or expand our business. the marketplace for our products is constantly changing and we are required to make substantial ongoing investments in our research and development. the semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological change, variations in manufacturing efficiencies of new products, and significant expenditures for capital equipment and product development. new product introductions are a critical factor for maintaining or increasing future revenue growth and sustained or increased profitability. however, they can present significant business challenges because product development commitments and expenditures must be made well in advance of the related revenues. the success of a new product depends on a variety of factors including accurate forecasts of long-term market demand and future technological developments, accurate anticipation of competitors' actions and offerings, timely and efficient completion of process design and development, timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing and assembly processes, product performance, quality and reliability of the product, and effective marketing, revenue and service. our manufacturing operations may be interrupted or suffer yield problems. the manufacture and design of integrated circuits is highly complex. we may experience a disruption in factory operations, manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields, or product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, outdated infrastructure, upgrading or expanding existing facilities, equipment malfunctioning, construction delays, changing our process technologies, capacity constraints, or new technology qualification delays, particularly in our internal fabrication facilities. for example, our internal fabrication facility at beaverton, oregon requires additional investment to, among other things, upgrade its infrastructure and manufacturing equipment. in connection with the upgrading of our facilities, we may experience a disruption in factory operations, which could result in damages to the facilities and stoppages to the operations of the facilities. additionally, our internal fabrication facilities may be harmed or rendered inoperable due to damages resulting from fire, natural disaster, unavailability of electric power or other causes, which may render it difficult or impossible for us to manufacture our products for some period of time. if our internal fabrication facilities become unavailable to us, it would be time consuming, difficult, and costly to arrange for new manufacturing facilities to supply our products given the nature of our products. in addition, our third party's manufacturing facilities may not be available to us due to natural or man-made disasters, labor unrest, political conditions or other causes. to the extent we experience disruptions at our wafer fabrication facilities or we do not achieve acceptable manufacturing yields, our results of operations could be adversely affected. our dependence on subcontractors for assembly, test, freight, wafer fabrication and logistic services and certain manufacturing services may cause delays beyond our control in delivering products to our customers. we rely on subcontractors located in various parts of the world for assembly and csp packaging services, freight and logistic services, wafer fabrication, and sorting and testing services. for example, in connection with the sale of our semiconductor wafer fabrication facility in san antonio, texas to towerjazz texas, inc. (formerly known as tj texas, inc.) ("towerjazz"), an indirect 10 wholly-owned subsidiary of tower semiconductor ltd. ( tower ), in the third quarter of fiscal year 2016, we entered into a long-term supply agreement with towerjazz, pursuant to which we procure from towerjazz certain quantities of silicon wafers upon which integrated circuits are made that are designed by us. none of the subcontractors we currently use are affiliated with us. reliability problems experienced by our subcontractors or the inability to promptly replace any subcontractor could cause serious problems in delivery and quality resulting in potential product liability to us. such problems could impair our ability to meet our revenue plan in the fiscal year period impacted by the disruption. failure to meet the revenue plan may materially adversely impact our results of operations. any disruptions in our sort, assembly, test, freight, and logistic operations or in the operations of our subcontractors, including, but not limited to, the inability or unwillingness of any of our subcontractors to produce or timely deliver adequate supplies of processed wafers, integrated circuit packages, or tested products conforming to our quality standards, or other required products or services could damage our reputation, relationships, and goodwill with customers. furthermore, finding alternate sources of supply or initiating internal wafer processing for these products may not be economically feasible. our critical information systems are subject to cyber-attacks, data breaches, interruptions, and failures. we rely on several information technology systems to provide products and services, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers, keep financial, employee, and other records, and operate other critical functions. maintaining the security of our information technology systems is important to our business and reputation. these information technology systems are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources. security breaches, including cyber-attacks, phishing attacks, denial-of-service attacks, or attempts to misappropriate or compromise confidential or proprietary information or sabotage enterprise information technology systems, are becoming increasingly frequent and more sophisticated. we currently have developed, and are in the process of developing more systems and procedures that include, among other things, ongoing internal risk assessments to identify vulnerabilities, an internal group dedicated to reviewing cybersecurity threats, and the adoption of an information security policy. although we take steps to detect and investigate security incidents and implement protections to prevent their recurrence, in some cases, we might be unable to anticipate or prevent all attacks because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage networks and systems are constantly evolving. despite our efforts to mitigate risks associated with cybersecurity events, our information technology systems may still be susceptible to adaptive persistent threats, catastrophic cybersecurity attacks, damage, disruptions, or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, computer malware and viruses, telecommunication failures, user errors, or other events. risks associated with these threats include, but are not limited to, loss of intellectual property, impairment of our ability to conduct our operations, disruption of our customers' operations, loss or damage to our customer data delivery systems, and increased costs to prevent, respond to or mitigate catastrophic cybersecurity events. a prolonged systemic disruption in the information technology systems could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant consequential costs, which could adversely affect our business. in addition, cybersecurity breaches of our information technology systems could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential information belonging to us or to our customers, partners, suppliers, or employees. our business and reputation could be harmed, and we could be subject to legal and regulatory claims which could result in significant financial or reputational damage. our results of operations could be adversely affected by warranty claims and product liability. we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability suits in connection with reliability problems or other product defects that may affect our customers. our products are used by a variety of industries, including the automotive and medical industries. failure of our products to perform to specifications, or other product defects, could lead to substantial damage to both the end product in which our device has been placed and to the user of such end product. although we take measures to protect against product defects, if a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and any adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. if we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business may be harmed. our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our chief executive officer, our other executive officers, and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers and business unit managers, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. the loss of the services of one or several of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our company. in addition, we could be materially adversely affected if the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increases significantly or we are unsuccessful in attracting, motivating and retaining qualified personnel. should we lose one or more engineers who are key to a project's completion during the course of a particular project, the completion of such project may be delayed which could negatively affect customer relationships and goodwill and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 11 our independent distributors and sales representatives may underperform relative to our expectations, terminate their relationship with us or fail to make payments on outstanding accounts receivable to us, which would adversely affect our financial results. a portion of our sales is realized through independent electronics distributors that are not under our direct control. these independent sales organizations generally represent product lines offered by several companies and thus could underperform for various reasons, including as a result of reducing their sales efforts applied to our products, or terminate their distribution relationship with us. in fiscal 2019, 46% of our revenues were generated from distributors, the largest of which was avnet, our primary world-wide distributor, which accounted for 22% of our revenues. we require certain foreign distributors to provide a letter of credit to us in an amount up to the credit limit set for accounts receivable from such foreign distributors. the letter of credit provides for collection on accounts receivable from the foreign distributor should the foreign distributor default on their accounts receivable to us. where credit limits have been established above the amount of the letter of credit, we are exposed for the difference. we do not require letters of credit from any of our domestic distributors and are not contractually protected against accounts receivable default or bankruptcy by these distributors. the inability to collect open accounts receivable could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. termination of a significant distributor, whether at our or the distributor's initiative, or the general underperformance of a significant distributor could be disruptive and harmful to our current business. additional factors that could adversely affect us include the difficulties of managing independent sales organizations due to any matter involving fraud or dishonesty on the part of the independent distributors and sales representatives. it is often difficult to anticipate or immediately detect such misconduct of an independent third party. if we fail to enter into future vendor managed inventory arrangements or fail to supply the specific product or quantity under such arrangements, the results of our operations and financial condition may be materially adversely impacted. we enter into arrangements with certain original equipment manufacturers ( oems ) and electronic manufacturing services ( ems ) partners to consign quantities of certain products within proximity of the oems and ems partners' manufacturing location. the inventory is physically segregated at these locations and we retain title and risk of loss related to this inventory until such time as the oem or ems partner pulls the inventory for use in its manufacturing process. once the inventory is pulled by the oem or ems partner, title and risk of loss pass to the customer, at which point we relieve inventory and recognize revenue and the related cost of goods sold. the specific quantities to be consigned are based on a forecast provided by the oem or ems partner. generally, the arrangements with the oems and ems partners provide for transfer of title and risk of loss once product has been consigned for a certain length of time. we believe these arrangements will continue to grow in terms of number of customers and products and will increase in proportion to consolidated net revenues. should we be unable or unwilling to enter into such agreements as requested by oems or ems partners, our results of operations may be materially adversely impacted. in addition, should we be unable to supply the specific product in the quantity needed by the oem or ems partner as reflected in their forecast, we may be liable for damages, including, but not limited to, lost revenues and increased production costs which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. should we supply product in excess of the oem or ems partners' actual usage, any inventory not consumed may become excess or obsolete, which would result in an inventory write-down that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. we may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may impact our ability to compete effectively. we rely upon know-how, trade secrets, and patents to develop and maintain our competitive position. there can be no assurance that others will not develop or patent similar technology or reverse engineer our products or that the confidentiality agreements upon which we rely will be adequate to protect our interests. moreover, the laws of some foreign countries generally do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the united states, and we may encounter problems in protecting our proprietary rights in those foreign countries. periodically, we have been asked by certain prospective customers to provide them with broad licenses to our intellectual property rights in connection with the sale of our products to them. such licenses, if granted, may have a negative impact on the value of our intellectual property portfolio. other companies have obtained patents covering a variety of semiconductor designs and processes, and we could be required to obtain licenses under some of these patents or be precluded from making and selling products that are alleged to be infringing, if such patents are valid and other design and manufacturing solutions are not available. there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain licenses, if required, upon commercially reasonable terms or at all. 12 we may suffer losses and business interruption if our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others. in the past, it has been common in the semiconductor industry for patent holders to offer licenses on reasonable terms and rates. although the practice of offering licenses appears to be generally continuing, in some situations, typically where the patent directly relates to a specific product or family of products, patent holders have refused to grant licenses. in any of those cases, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain any necessary license on terms acceptable to us, if at all, or that we would be able to re-engineer our products or processes in a cost-effective manner to avoid claims of infringement. any litigation in such a situation could involve an injunction to prevent the sales of a material portion of our products, the reduction or elimination of the value of related inventories and the assessment of a substantial monetary award for damages related to past sales, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we may experience losses related to intellectual property indemnity claims. we provide intellectual property indemnification for certain customers, distributors, suppliers and subcontractors for attorney fees and damages and costs awarded against these parties in certain circumstances in which our products are alleged to infringe third party intellectual property rights, including patents, registered trademarks and copyrights. in certain cases, there are limits on and exceptions to our potential liability for indemnification relating to intellectual property infringement claims. we cannot estimate the amount of potential future payments, if any, that we might be required to make as a result of these agreements. to date, we have not been required to pay significant amounts for intellectual property indemnification claims. however, there can be no assurance that we will not have significant financial exposure under those intellectual property indemnification obligations in the future. our financial results may be adversely affected by increased tax rates and exposure to additional tax liabilities. on june 18, 2019, the u.s. treasury and the internal revenue service released temporary regulations under internal revenue code ( irc ) section 245a ( section 245a ), as enacted by the tax cuts and jobs act, and irc section 954(c)(6) (the temporary regulations ), which apply retroactively to intercompany dividends occurring after december 31, 2017. the temporary regulations limit the applicability of the foreign personal holding company income ( fphci ) look-through exception for certain intercompany dividends received by a controlled foreign corporation. before application of the retroactive temporary regulations, the company benefited in fiscal years 2018 and 2019 from the fphci look-through exception. the company has analyzed the relevant temporary regulations and concluded that they were not validly issued. therefore, the company has not accounted for the effects of the retroactive temporary regulations in its results of operations for fiscal year 2019. the company believes it has strong arguments in favor of its position and that it has met the more likely than not recognition threshold that its position will be sustained. the company intends to vigorously defend its position, however, due to the uncertainty involved in challenging the validity of regulations as well as a potential litigation process, there can be no assurances that the relevant temporary regulations will be invalidated, modified or that a court of law will rule in favor of the company. an unfavorable resolution of this issue could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to taxation in various countries and jurisdictions. significant judgment is required to determine tax liabilities on a worldwide basis. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. a number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including, but not limited to: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; changes in our global structure that involve changes to investment in technology outside of the united states; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities, 13 changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, including laws or rules enacted by countries in response to the base erosion and profit shifting ( beps ) project conducted by the organization for economic co-operation and development ( oecd ); and changes in generally accepted accounting principles. our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions. the global economic environment could subject us to increased credit risk should customers be unable to pay us, or delay paying us, for previously purchased products. accordingly, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. in addition, weakness in the market for end users of our products could harm the cash flow of certain of our distributors and resellers who could then delay paying their obligations to us or experience other financial difficulties. this would further increase our credit risk exposure and potentially cause delays in our recognition of revenue on sales to these customers. if economic or market conditions deteriorate globally, in the united states or in other key markets, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. shortage of raw materials or supply disruption of such raw materials could harm our business. the semiconductor industry has experienced a large expansion of fabrication capacity and production worldwide over time. as a result of increasing demand from semiconductor, solar and other manufacturers, availability of certain basic materials and supplies, and of subcontract services, has been limited from time to time over the past several years, and could come into short supply again if overall industry demand exceeds the supply of these materials and services in the future. we purchase materials and supplies from many suppliers, some of which are sole-sourced. if the availability of these materials and supplies is interrupted, we may not be able to find suitable replacements. in addition, from time to time natural disasters can lead to a shortage of some materials due to disruption of the manufacturer's production. we continually strive to maintain availability of all required materials, supplies and subcontract services. however, we do not have long-term agreements providing for all of these materials, supplies and services, and shortages could occur as a result of capacity limitations or production constraints on suppliers that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our production requirements. we may be liable for additional production costs and lost revenues to certain customers with whom we have entered into customer supply agreements if we are unable to meet certain product quantity and quality requirements. we enter into contracts with certain customers whereby we commit to supply quantities of specified parts at a predetermined scheduled delivery date. the number of such arrangements continues to increase as this practice becomes more commonplace. should we be unable to supply the customer with the specific part at the quantity and product quality desired and on the scheduled delivery date, the customer may incur additional production costs. in addition, the customer may lose revenues due to a delay in receiving the parts necessary to have the end-product ready for sale to its customers or due to product quality issues. under certain customer supply agreements, we may be liable for direct additional production costs or lost revenues. if products are not shipped on time or are quality deficient, we may be liable for penalties and resulting damages. such liability, should it arise, and/or our inability to meet these commitments to our customers may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could damage our relationships with the affected customers, reputation and goodwill. our products may fail to meet new industry standards or requirements and the efforts to meet such industry standards or requirements could be costly. 14 many of our products are based on industry standards that are continually evolving. our ability to compete in the future will depend on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with these evolving industry standards. the emergence of new industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major systems manufacturers. as a result, we could be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards or requirements, we could miss opportunities to achieve crucial design wins which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial results. our operating results may be adversely affected by increased competition and consolidation of competitors in our market. the semiconductor industry has experienced significant consolidation in recent years. as a result, we experience intense competition from a number of companies, some of which have significantly greater financial, manufacturing and marketing resources than us, as well as greater technical resources and proprietary intellectual property rights than us. the principal elements of competition include product performance, functional value, quality and reliability, technical service and support, price, diversity of product line, and sale of integrated system solutions which combine the functionality of multiple chips on one chip for a price as part of a complete system solution and delivery capabilities. we believe we compete favorably with respect to these factors, although we may be at a disadvantage in comparison to companies with broader product lines, greater technical service and support capabilities and larger research and development budgets. we may be unable to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors and our operating results may be adversely affected by increased competition or our inability to timely develop new products to meet the needs of our customers. in addition, our competitors may become more aggressive in their pricing practices which may adversely impact our gross margins and market share. for example, our competitors may offer lower prices than us, or they may price multiple products or services in a bundle to provide additional incentives that we may not be able to match. we may be unable to mitigate the negative effects of such price competition, which may adversely affect our operating results. extensions in lead-time for delivery of products could adversely affect our future growth opportunities and results of operations. supply constraints, which may include limitations in manufacturing capacity, could impede our ability to grow revenues and meet increased customer demands for our products. our results of operations may be adversely affected if we fail to meet such increase in demand for our products without significantly increasing the lead-time required for our delivery of such products. any significant increase in the lead-time for delivery of products may negatively affect our customer relationships, reputation as a dependable supplier of products and ability to obtain future design wins, while potentially increasing order cancellations, aged, unsaleable or otherwise unrealized backlog, and the likelihood of our breach of supply agreement terms. any of the foregoing factors could negatively affect our future revenue growth and results of operations. we are subject to a variety of domestic and international laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs on us and may adversely affect our business. we are subject to numerous u.s. and international laws, rules and regulations covering a wide variety of subject matters, including, but not limited to, data privacy and protection, environment, safety and health, exports and imports, bribery and corruption, tax, labor and employment, competition, market access, and intellectual property ownership and infringement. compliance with these laws, rules and regulations may be onerous and expensive and could restrict our ability to operate our business. if we fail to comply or if we become subject to enforcement activity, we could be subject to fines, penalties or other legal liability. furthermore, should these laws, rules and regulations be amended or expanded, or new ones enacted, we could incur materially greater compliance costs or restrictions on our ability to operate our business. among other laws and regulations, we are subject to the general data protection regulation ( gdpr ) effective in the european union ( eu ), which created a data protection compliance regime that imposed substantial obligations on companies collecting, processing and transferring personal data and may impose significant penalties for non-compliance. similarly, certain jurisdictions in the united states and some countries in which we operate may consider or have passed legislation implementing data protection requirements that could require us to change our business practices and increase the cost and complexity of compliance. in addition to gdpr, we are subject to the u.s. customs and export regulations, including u.s. international traffic and arms regulations and similar laws, which collectively control import, export and sale of technologies by companies and various other aspects of the operation of our business, and the foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws, which prohibit companies from making improper payments to government officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business. while our company's policies and procedures mandate compliance with such laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees and agents will always act in strict compliance. if we fail to comply or if we become subject to enforcement activity, we could be subject to fines, penalties or other legal liability. furthermore, should these laws, rules and regulations be amended 15 or expanded, or new ones enacted, we could incur materially greater compliance costs or restrictions on our ability to operate our business, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. our failure or inability to comply with existing or future laws, rules or regulations, or changes to existing laws, rules or regulations could subject us to fines, penalties or other legal liability. our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which could adversely impact our common stock price. we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. our operating results have in the past been, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly fluctuations as a result of numerous factors, some of which may contribute to more pronounced fluctuations in an uncertain global economic environment. these factors include, but are not limited to, the following: fluctuations in demand for our products and services; loss of a significant customer or significant customers electing to purchase from another supplier; reduced visibility into our customers' spending plans and associated revenue; the level of price and competition in our product markets; our pricing practices, including our use of available information to maximize pricing potential; the impact of the uncertain economic and credit environment on our customers, channel partners, and suppliers, including their ability to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures; the overall movement toward industry consolidations among our customers and competitors; below industry-average growth of the non-consumer segments of our business; announcements and introductions of new products by our competitors; our ability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flow to pay dividends to our stockholders; deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements (introduced by us or our competitors); our ability to meet increases in customer orders in a timely manner; striking an appropriate balance between short-term execution and long-term innovation; our ability to develop, introduce, and market new products and enhancements and market acceptance of such new products and enhancements; and our levels of operating expenses. environmental, safety and health laws and regulations could force us to expend significant capital and incur substantial costs. various foreign and domestic federal, state, and local government agencies impose a variety of environmental, safety and health laws and regulations on the storage, handling, use, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals, gases and other substances used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process as well as the health and safety regulations related to our employees. historically, compliance with these regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive or financial position. there can be no assurance, however, that interpretation and enforcement of current or future environmental, safety and health laws and regulations will not impose costly requirements upon us. any failure by us to adequately control the storage, handling, use, discharge or disposal of regulated substances could result in fines, sales limitations, suspension of production, alteration of wafer fabrication processes and legal liability, which may materially adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. 16 in addition, some of our customers and potential customers may require that we implement operating practices that are more stringent than applicable legal requirements with respect to health regulations, environmental matters or other items. as a result, these requirements may increase our own costs regarding developing, administering, monitoring and auditing these customer-requested practices at our own sites and those in our supply chain. we may pursue acquisitions and investments that could harm our operating results and may disrupt our business. we have made and will continue to consider making strategic business investments, alliances, and acquisitions we consider necessary or desirable to gain access to key technologies that we believe will complement our existing technical capability and support our business model objectives. investments, alliances, and acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties that may negatively impact our future financial performance and result in an impairment of goodwill. if integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or suffer other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee. we may also need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. we also invest in early-to-late stage private companies to further our strategic objectives and support key business initiatives. these strategic investments may not perform as expected. we cannot provide assurance that these companies will operate in a manner that will increase or maintain the value of our investment. if these private companies fail, we may not realize a return on our investments. thus, all of our investments are subject to a risk of a partial or total loss of investment capital. any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability from acquired businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of acquisitions. in addition, because acquisitions of high technology companies are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. material impairments of our goodwill or intangible assets could adversely affect our results of operations. goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if certain impairment indicators arise or upon the disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. the review compares the fair value for each reporting unit to its associated book value including goodwill. a decrease in the fair value associated with a reporting unit resulting from, among other things, unfavorable changes in the estimated future discounted cash flow of the reporting unit, may require us to recognize impairments of goodwill. our intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives, but they are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. if the sum of the future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of the intangible asset and its eventual disposition is less than the carrying amount of the asset, we would recognize an impairment loss to the extent the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. our debt covenants may limit us from engaging in certain transactions or other activities. we have entered into debt arrangements that contain certain covenants which may limit the manner in which we conduct our business. for example, the debt indentures that govern our outstanding notes include covenants that, under certain circumstances, limit our ability to grant liens on our facilities and to enter into sale and leaseback transactions, which could limit our ability to secure additional debt funding in the future. in circumstances involving a change of control of the company followed by a downgrade of the rating of the notes, we would be required to make an offer to repurchase the affected notes at a purchase price greater than the aggregate principal amount of such notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. our ability to repurchase the notes in such events may be limited by our then-available financial resources or by the terms of other agreements to which we are a party. although we currently have the funds necessary to retire this debt, funds might not be available to repay the notes when they become due in the future. we are required to comply with the covenants set forth in our debt indentures. if we breach any of the covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the note holders or lenders, then, subject to cure periods, any outstanding indebtedness may be declared immediately due and payable. business interruptions from natural disasters could harm our ability to produce products. we operate our business in worldwide locations. some of our facilities and those of our subcontractors are located in areas of the world that are susceptible to damage from natural disasters and other significant disruptions, including earthquakes, typhoons, hurricanes, tsunamis, floods, fires, water shortages and other natural catastrophic events. in the event of a natural disaster, we may suffer a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our results of operations. 17 our financial condition, operations and liquidity may be materially adversely affected in the event of a catastrophic loss for which we are self-insured. we are primarily self-insured with respect to many of our commercial risks and exposures. based on management's assessment and judgment, we have determined that it is generally more cost effective to self-insure these risks. the risks and exposures we self-insure include, but are not limited to, fire, property and casualty, natural disasters, product defects, political risk, general liability, theft, counterfeits, patent infringement, certain employment practice matters and medical benefits for many of our u.s. employees. should there be catastrophic loss from events such as fires, explosions, earthquakes, or other natural disasters, among many other risks, or adverse court or similar decisions in any area in which we are self-insured, our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity may be materially adversely affected. we may be materially adversely affected by currency fluctuations. we conduct our manufacturing and other operations in various worldwide locations. a portion of our operating costs and expenses at foreign locations are paid in local currencies. many of the materials used in our products and much of the manufacturing process for our products are supplied by foreign companies or by our foreign operations, such as our test operations in the philippines and thailand. approximately 89%, 88% and 88% of our net revenues in fiscal years 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively, were from international sales. currency exchange fluctuations could decrease revenue and increase our operating costs, the cost of components manufactured abroad, and the cost of our products to foreign customers, or decrease the costs of products produced by our foreign competitors. exiting certain product lines or businesses, or restructuring our operations, may adversely affect certain customer relationships and produce results that differ from our intended outcomes. the nature of our business requires strategic changes from time to time, including restructuring our operations and divesting and consolidating certain product lines and businesses. the sale of facilities, or the exiting of certain product lines or businesses, may adversely affect certain customer relationships, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. additionally, our ability to timely shut down our facilities or otherwise exit product lines and businesses, or to close or consolidate operations, depends on a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. if we are unable to shut down a facility or exit a product line or business in a timely manner, or to restructure our operations in a manner we deem to be advantageous, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. even if the sale of a facility or divestment is successful, we may face indemnity and other liability claims by the acquirer or other parties. our stock price may be volatile. the market price of our common stock may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. fluctuations have occurred and may continue to occur in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control. in addition, the market prices of securities of technology companies, including those in the semiconductor industry, generally have been and remain volatile. this volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. if our actual operating results or future forecasted results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, who may derive their expectations by extrapolating data from recent historical operating results, the market price of our common stock may decline. accordingly, you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at a price equal to or higher than the price you paid for them. due to the nature of our compensation programs, some of our executive officers sell shares of our common stock each quarter or otherwise periodically, including pursuant to trading plans established under rule 10b5-1 of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. regardless of the reasons for such sales, analysts and investors could view such actions in a negative light and the market price of our stock could be adversely affected as a result of such periodic sales. our certificate of incorporation contains certain anti-takeover provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a hostile change in control of our company. our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to authorize the issuance of up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences and privileges and restrictions applicable to such shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. any such issuance might discourage, delay or prevent a hostile change in control of our company, which may be considered beneficial to our stockholders. 18 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 30 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and notes payable. see note 5: financial instruments in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual 30 report. we do not use derivative financial instruments to hedge the ongoing risk of interest rate volatility. at june 29, 2019 , we maintained a significant portfolio of money market fund investments, which are included in cash and cash equivalents. these money market funds are generally invested only in u.s. government or agency securities and are all available on a daily basis. our short-term investments are in u.s. government, corporate and bank debt securities. our long-term notes payable are all fixed rate securities and as such, we have no financial statement risk associated with changes in interest rates related to these notes. to assess the interest rate risk associated with our outstanding long-term debt portfolio, we performed sensitivity analysis for our long-term notes as of june 29, 2019 , using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. the discount rates used were based on the market interest rates in effect at june 29, 2019 . the sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in interest rates would result in a reduction in the fair values of our long-term notes of $50.7 million . foreign currency risk we generate less than 1.0% of our revenues in various global markets based on orders obtained in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we incur expenditures denominated in non-u.s. currencies, primarily the philippine peso and the thai baht associated with our manufacturing activities in the philippines and thailand, respectively, and expenditures for sales offices and research and development activities undertaken outside of the u.s. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates primarily on cash flows for expenditures, orders, and accounts receivable from sales in these foreign currencies. we have established risk management strategies designed to reduce the impact of volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in the exchange rate for these currencies. these strategies reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. we routinely hedge our exposure to certain foreign currencies with various financial institutions in an effort to minimize the impact of certain currency exchange rate fluctuations. if a financial counterparty to any of our hedging arrangements experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of the foreign currency hedge, we may experience financial losses. for derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges under asc no. 815, derivatives and hedging ( asc 815 ), the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income or loss and reclassified into earnings into the same financial statement line as the item being hedged, and in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. gains and losses on the derivative representing either hedge ineffectiveness or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized each period in interest and other income (expense), net. for derivative instruments that are not designated as hedging instruments under asc 815, gains and losses are recognized each period in interest and other income (expense), net. all derivatives are foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain foreign currency denominated assets or liabilities. the gains and losses on these derivatives largely offset the changes in the fair value of the assets or liabilities being hedged. as of june 29, 2019 , we had outstanding foreign currency derivative contracts with a total notional amount of $89.2 million . if overall foreign currency exchange rates appreciated (depreciated) uniformly by 10% against the u.s. dollar, our foreign currency derivative contracts outstanding as of june 29, 2019 would experience an approximately $4.7 million gain (loss). foreign exchange contracts the net unrealized gain or loss, if any, is potentially subject to market and credit risk as it represents appreciation (decline) of the hedge position against the spot exchange rates. the net realized and unrealized gains or losses from hedging foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities were immaterial during the fiscal years ended june 29, 2019 and june 30, 2018 .risk factors 10 risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also adversely affect our business. the announcement and pending agreement to merge with analog devices may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and stock price. uncertainty relating to the pending adi merger could have an adverse effect on our employees, customers, partners, and other third parties that may materially disrupt key business activities and may adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations, and stock price. moreover, we are subject to various additional risks in connection with the announcement and pendency of the adi merger, including: the fact that the conditions to the closing of the adi merger may not be satisfied or waived, including that the required approval of maxim stockholders or adi shareholders may not be obtained; uncertainty relating to the pending merger may cause current and prospective customers to consider alternatives, and potentially change suppliers; potential adverse effects on our ability to attract, recruit, retain, and motivate current and prospective employees who may be uncertain about their future roles following the adi merger; the significant diversion of internal resources and key employees' and management's attention due to the pending adi merger; legal proceedings that may arise challenging the adi merger and the related transactions contemplated by the adi merger agreement may require us to incur significant legal fees and expenses, and may result in unfavorable outcomes that could delay or prevent the completion of the merger; the restrictions imposed on our business and operations under the adi merger agreement may prevent us from pursuing opportunities without analog devices' approval or taking other actions that we might have undertaken in the absence of the proposed adi merger, such as dividend payments, stock repurchases, and restructurings, which may interfere with our ability to effectively respond to competitive pressures, execute business strategies, and meet financial goals; the adi merger agreement contains customary provisions that restrict our ability to pursue alternative transaction to the adi merger and that may discourage potential competing acquirers from considering or proposing an alternative transaction that may provide a higher value to our stockholders; and the required regulatory approvals from governmental entities (u.s. and non-u.s.) may delay the completion of the adi merger or result in the imposition of conditions that would allow analog devices to terminate the adi merger agreement in certain circumstances and be obligated to pay us the termination fee specified in the adi merger agreement. any failure of the pending adi merger to be completed may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and stock price. each of our and analog devices' obligations to complete the adi merger is subject to a number of conditions specified in the adi merger agreement, including, among others: (i) the adoption of the merger agreement by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of company common stock; (ii) the approval by analog devices shareholders of the issuance of adi common stock to maxim integrated stockholders in the adi merger; (iii) the absence of certain laws, orders, judgments, and injunctions that restrain, enjoin, or otherwise prohibit the completion of the merger; (iv) expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976, as amended, and receipt of specified non-u.s. regulatory approvals; and (v) subject to certain materiality standards, the accuracy of representations and warranties with respect to the company and analog devices and compliance in all material respects by the company and analog devices with their respective covenants contained in the adi merger agreement. there can be no assurance that these conditions to the completion of the merger will be satisfied within the timeframe specified in the merger agreement or at all. regulatory and governmental authorities may impose conditions on the granting of the required regulatory approvals, including divestitures of certain assets or businesses, which may result in extended negotiations among these entities, analog devices and us, which may delay the completion of the adi merger and increase the risk that the adi merger may not be completed. if the adi merger is not completed, our stock price could decline to the extent that our current share price reflects an assumption that the adi merger will be completed. furthermore, if the adi merger is not completed, we may suffer other consequences that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and stock price, including the following: 10 we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs and expenses, including fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the adi merger, and many of these fees and costs are payable by us regardless of whether the adi merger is completed; we could be required to pay a termination fee of up to $725 million to analog devices under circumstances as described in the adi merger agreement, including a circumstance in which our board of directors changes its recommendation concerning the approval of the adi merger or if the company were to receive an alternative proposal; the failure to complete the adi merger may result in adverse publicity, negatively impact the reputation of the company in the capital markets and investment community, and result in critical responses from our customers, partners, and other third parties; legal proceedings may be instituted against us, our directors and others relating to the adi merger and related transactions; any disruptions to our business resulting from the announcement and pendency of the adi merger, including any adverse changes to our relationships with customers, vendors, and employees, may continue or intensify in the event the adi merger is not completed; we may experience employee departures; and we may not be able to take advantage of alternative business opportunities or effectively respond to competitive pressures. the ongoing novel coronavirus ("covid-19") pandemic and the mitigation efforts by governments to attempt to control its spread have negatively impacted and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. as a result of the covid-19 pandemic, governmental authorities have implemented and are continuing to implement numerous and constantly evolving measures to try to contain the virus, such as travel bans and restrictions, limits on gatherings, shelter-in-place orders, quarantines, and business limitations and shutdowns. the covid-19 pandemic and resulting mitigation efforts have impacted and will likely continue to impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition for an indefinite period of time. while we are unable to accurately predict the full extent to which the covid-19 pandemic and the mitigation efforts by governments to attempt to control its spread will have on our results from operations and financial condition due to numerous uncertainties, including the duration and severity of the pandemic and containment measures, our compliance with these measures has impacted our day-to-day operations and could disrupt our business and operations, as well as that of our customers and suppliers for an indefinite period of time. we operate our business in worldwide locations. the potential risks and effects of this pandemic and economic crisis, including potential global or regional recessions or depressions, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations include, but not limited to: adverse impact on our customers and supply channels; decrease in product demand and pricing as a result of this pandemic and unfavorable economic and market conditions; disruption in our global operations, including our internal and compliance processes; restrictions on our manufacturing, support operations or workforce, or similar limitations for our customers, vendors, and suppliers, could limit our ability to meet customer demand; potential increased credit risk if customers, distributors, and resellers are unable to pay us, or must delay paying their obligations to us; restrictions or disruptions of transportation, such as reduced availability of air transport, port closures, and increased border controls or closures could result in delays; impact on our workforce/employees due to the ease with which the virus spreads; and potential failure of our computer systems or communication systems as well as increased cyber-related risks due to our employees working from home. any or all of these items may occur, which individually or in the aggregate, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. these risks could accelerate or intensify depending on the severity and length of the pandemic. the covid-19 pandemic has in the short-term, and may in the long-term, adversely impact the global economy, potentially leading to an economic downturn and increased unemployment. moreover, even after the covid-19 pandemic has subsided, we may continue to experience materially adverse impacts to our business due to its global economic impact. the covid-19 pandemic, and the various responses to it, may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks disclosed herein. 11 the sale of our products and our results of operations are dependent upon demand from the end markets of our customers, which is cyclical. our products are sold in the following major end-markets: (i) automotive, (ii) communications &amp; data center, (iii) consumer, and (iv) industrial. the demand for our products is subject to the strength of these four major end-markets that we serve and to some extent the overall economic climate. we often experience decreases and increases in demand for our products primarily due to the end-market demand of our customers. our business and results of operations may be adversely affected if demand for our products decreases or if we are unable to meet an increase in demand without significantly increasing the lead-time for the delivery of our products. the semiconductor market historically has been cyclical with periods of increased demand and rapid growth followed by periods of oversupply and subsequent contraction and subject to significant and often rapid increases and decreases in product demand. as a result, changes could have adverse effects on our results of operation. our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions. the global economic environment could subject us to increased credit risk should customers be unable to pay us, or delay paying us, for previously purchased products. accordingly, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. in addition, weakness in the market for end users of our products could harm the cash flow of certain of our distributors and resellers who could then delay paying their obligations to us or experience other financial difficulties. this would further increase our credit risk exposure and potentially cause delays in our recognition of revenue on sales to these customers. if economic or market conditions deteriorate globally, in the united states or in other key markets, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. incorrect forecasts, reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products and volatility in customer demand could adversely affect our results of operations. as is customary in the semiconductor industry, customer orders may be canceled in most cases without penalty to the customers. some customers place orders that require us to manufacture products and have them available for shipment, even though the customer may be unwilling to make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the products. in other cases, we manufacture products based on forecasts of customer demands. as a result, we may incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales and are subject to the risk of cancellations of orders, potentially leading to an initial inflation of backlog followed by a sharp reduction. because of the possibility of order cancellation, backlog should not be used as a measure of future revenues. furthermore, canceled or unrealized orders, especially for products meeting unique customer requirements, may also result in an inventory of unsaleable products, causing potential inventory write-downs, some of which could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our gross margins and results of operations. we may experience difficulties implementing our new global execution system, which may adversely affect our ability to effectively supply products to our customers. we have been implementing a new global execution system ( ges ) as part of our efforts to integrate inventory movement with our financial reporting system. this implementation is a major undertaking and requires significant employee time and financial resources. while we have invested significant resources in planning and project management, implementation issues may arise. for example, we may experience staff turnover, which may delay the implementation of ges. additionally, unforeseen issues may arise, which could disrupt the implementation of ges. any disruptions, delays or deficiencies in the design and the implementation or operation of ges could disrupt or reduce our supply chain execution and operational efficiency which may lead to our inability to effectively supply products to our customers and may impact the accuracy of our financial reporting. our inability to successfully manage the implementation of ges could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. our global operations subject us to risks associated with changes in trade policies, including international trade disputes, and domestic or international political, social, economic or other conditions. we are subject to the political and legal risks inherent in international operations. exposure to political instabilities, different business policies and varying legal or regulatory standards, including, but not limited to, international trade disputes, could result in the imposition of tariffs, sanctions, restrictions on the u.s. import and export controls and other trade restrictions or barriers, which could negatively impact economic activity and lead to a contraction of customer demand. for example, in 2018, the u.s. and china began to impose partial tariffs on each other's products, and the trade tension between the two countries has escalated in 2019 through 2020. in addition, the u.s. has and may continue to focus on the business practices of specific foreign companies, 12 including large technology companies based in china, which may result in future u.s. government actions impacting our ability to do business with such companies. the possibility of a deteriorating trade relationship may put us at a disadvantage in competition with non-u.s. companies and lead to a decreased customer demand for our products in the long-term due to the growing economic risks and geopolitical uncertainty between the u.s. and china. international trade disputes could also result in various forms of protectionist trade legislation and other protectionist measures that could limit the company's ability to operate its business and have a negative effect on end-market demand, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, political and economic changes or volatility, political unrest, civil strife, public corruption and other economic or political uncertainties in certain countries, such as the philippines, could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations. we have been impacted by these problems in the past, but none have materially affected our results of operations. problems in the future or not-yet-materialized consequences of past problems could affect deliveries of our products to our customers, possibly resulting in business interruptions, substantially delayed or lost sales and/or increased expenses that cannot be passed on to our customers, any of which could ultimately have a material adverse effect on our business. our manufacturing operations may be interrupted or suffer yield problems. the manufacture and design of integrated circuits is highly complex. we may experience a disruption in factory operations, manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields, or product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, outdated infrastructure, upgrading or expanding existing facilities, equipment malfunctioning, construction delays, changing our process technologies, capacity constraints, or new technology qualification delays, particularly in our internal fabrication facilities. for example, our internal fabrication facility at beaverton, oregon requires additional investment to, among other things, upgrade its infrastructure and manufacturing equipment. in connection with the upgrading of our facilities, we may experience a disruption in factory operations, which could result in damages to the facilities and stoppages to the operations of the facilities. additionally, our internal fabrication facilities may be harmed or rendered inoperable due to damages resulting from fire, natural disaster, unavailability of electric power or other causes, which may render it difficult or impossible for us to manufacture our products for some period of time. if our internal fabrication facilities become unavailable to us, it would be time consuming, difficult, and costly to arrange for new manufacturing facilities to supply our products given the nature of our products. in addition, our third parties' manufacturing facilities may not be available to us due to natural or man-made disasters, labor unrest, political conditions, social unrest, civil strife, or other causes. to the extent we experience disruptions at our wafer fabrication facilities, or we do not achieve acceptable manufacturing yields, our results of operations could be adversely affected. our operating results may be adversely affected by our inability to timely develop new products through our research and development efforts. we may be unsuccessful in developing and selling new products necessary to maintain or expand our business. the marketplace for our products is constantly changing and we are required to make substantial ongoing investments in our research and development. the semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid technological change, variations in manufacturing efficiencies of new products, and significant expenditures for capital equipment and product development. new product introductions are a critical factor for maintaining or increasing future revenue growth and sustained or increased profitability. however, they can present significant business challenges because product development commitments and expenditures must be made well in advance of the related revenues. the success of a new product depends on a variety of factors including accurate forecasts of long-term market demand and future technological developments, accurate anticipation of competitors' actions and offerings, timely and efficient completion of process design and development, timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing and assembly processes, product performance, quality and reliability of the product, and effective marketing, revenue and service. the loss of, or substantial reduction in sales to, any of our large customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. a reduction in demand or loss of one or more of our large customers may adversely affect our business. the delay, significant reduction in, or loss of, orders from any one or more of our large customers (including curtailments of purchases due to a change in the design, manufacturing or sourcing policies or practices of these customers or the timing of customer inventory adjustments) or demands of price concessions from any one or more of our large customers could have a material adverse effect on our net revenues and results of operations. our critical information systems are subject to cyber-attacks, data breaches, interruptions, and failures. 13 we rely on several information technology systems to provide products and services, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers, keep financial, employee, and other records, and operate other critical functions. maintaining the security of our information technology systems is important to our business and reputation. these information technology systems are subject to damage or interruption from a number of potential sources. security breaches, including cyber-attacks, phishing attacks, denial-of-service attacks, or attempts to misappropriate or compromise confidential or proprietary information or sabotage enterprise information technology systems, are becoming increasingly frequent and more sophisticated. we currently have developed, and are in the process of developing more systems and procedures that include, among other things, ongoing internal risk assessments to identify vulnerabilities, an internal group dedicated to reviewing cybersecurity threats, and the adoption of an information security policy. due to the evolving threat landscape, cyber-based attacks will continue and we may experience them going forward, potentially with more frequency. we continue to make investments and adopt measures designed to enhance our protection, detection, response, and recovery capabilities, and to mitigate potential risks to our intellectual property, technology, operations, customer data and proprietary information from potential cyber-attacks. however, although we take steps to detect and investigate security incidents and implement protections to prevent their recurrence, in some cases, we might be unable to anticipate or prevent all attacks because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or sabotage networks and systems are constantly evolving. there can be no assurance that any future system improvements will be effective in preventing attacks or limiting the damage from any future cyber-attacks or disruptions. despite our efforts to mitigate risks associated with cybersecurity events, our information technology systems may still be susceptible to adaptive persistent threats, catastrophic cybersecurity attacks, damage, disruptions, or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, computer malware and viruses, telecommunication failures, user errors, or other events. risks associated with these threats include, but are not limited to, loss of intellectual property, impairment of our ability to conduct our operations, disruption of our customers' operations, loss or damage to our customer data delivery systems, and increased costs to prevent, respond to or mitigate catastrophic cybersecurity events. a prolonged systemic disruption in the information technology systems could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant consequential costs, which could adversely affect our business. in addition, cybersecurity breaches of our information technology systems could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential information belonging to us or to our customers, partners, suppliers, or employees. our business and reputation could be harmed, and we could be subject to legal and regulatory claims which could result in significant financial or reputational damage. our dependence on subcontractors for assembly, test, freight, wafer fabrication and logistic services and certain manufacturing services may cause delays beyond our control in delivering products to our customers. we rely on subcontractors located in various parts of the world for assembly and csp packaging services, freight and logistic services, wafer fabrication, and sorting and testing services. for example, in connection with the sale of our semiconductor wafer fabrication facility in san antonio, texas to towerjazz texas, inc. (formerly known as tj texas, inc.) ("towerjazz"), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of tower semiconductor ltd. ( tower ), we entered into a long-term supply agreement with towerjazz, pursuant to which we procure from towerjazz certain quantities of silicon wafers upon which integrated circuits are made that are designed by us. none of the subcontractors we currently use is affiliated with us. reliability problems experienced by our subcontractors or the inability to promptly replace any subcontractor could cause serious problems in delivery and quality resulting in potential product liability to us. such problems could impair our ability to meet our revenue plan in the fiscal year period impacted by the disruption. failure to meet the revenue plan may materially adversely impact our results of operations. any disruptions in our sort, assembly, test, freight, and logistic operations or in the operations of our subcontractors, including, but not limited to, the inability or unwillingness of any of our subcontractors to produce or timely deliver adequate supplies of processed wafers, integrated circuit packages, or tested products conforming to our quality standards, or other required products or services could damage our reputation, relationships, and goodwill with customers. furthermore, finding alternate sources of supply or initiating internal wafer processing for these products may not be economically feasible. our financial results may be adversely affected by increased tax rates and exposure to additional tax liabilities. on june 18, 2019, the u.s. treasury and the internal revenue service released temporary regulations under internal revenue code ( irc ) section 245a ( section 245a ), as enacted by the tax cuts and jobs act, and irc section 954(c)(6) (the temporary regulations ), which apply retroactively to intercompany dividends occurring after december 31, 2017. the temporary regulations limit the applicability of the foreign personal holding company income ( fphci ) look-through exception for certain intercompany dividends received by a controlled foreign corporation. before application of the retroactive temporary regulations, the company benefited in fiscal years 2018 and 2019 from the fphci look-through exception. the company has analyzed the relevant temporary regulations and concluded that they were not validly issued. therefore, the company has not accounted for the effects of the retroactive temporary regulations in its results of operations for fiscal year 2019 or fiscal year 2020. the 14 company believes it has strong arguments in favor of its position and that it has met the more likely than not recognition threshold that its position will be sustained. the company intends to vigorously defend its position, however, due to the uncertainty involved in challenging the validity of regulations as well as a potential litigation process, there can be no assurance that the relevant temporary regulations will be invalidated, modified or that a court of law will rule in favor of the company. an unfavorable resolution of this issue could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to taxation in various countries and jurisdictions. significant judgment is required to determine tax liabilities on a worldwide basis. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. a number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including, but not limited to: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; changes in our global structure that involve changes to investment in technology outside of the united states; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, including laws or rules enacted by countries in response to the base erosion and profit shifting ( beps ) project conducted by the organization for economic co-operation and development ( oecd ); and changes in generally accepted accounting principles. our independent distributors and sales representatives may underperform relative to our expectations, terminate their relationship with us or fail to make payments on outstanding accounts receivable to us, which would adversely affect our financial results. a portion of our sales is realized through independent electronics distributors that are not under our direct control. these independent sales organizations generally represent product lines offered by several companies and thus could underperform for various reasons, including as a result of reducing their sales efforts applied to our products, or terminating their distribution relationship with us. in fiscal 2020, 52% of our revenues were generated from distributors, the largest of which was avnet, our primary world-wide distributor, which accounted for 22% of our revenues. we require certain foreign distributors to provide a letter of credit to us in an amount up to the credit limit set for accounts receivable from such foreign distributors. the letter of credit provides for collection on accounts receivable from the foreign distributor should the foreign distributor default on their accounts receivable to us. where credit limits have been established above the amount of the letter of credit, we are exposed for the difference. we do not require letters of credit from any of our domestic distributors and are not contractually protected against accounts receivable default or bankruptcy by these distributors. the inability to collect open accounts receivable could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. termination of a significant distributor, whether at our or the distributor's initiative, or the general underperformance of a significant distributor could be disruptive and harmful to our current business. additional factors that could adversely affect us include the difficulties of managing independent sales organizations due to any matter involving fraud or dishonesty on the part of the independent distributors and sales representatives. it is often difficult to anticipate or immediately detect such misconduct of an independent third party. we may be liable for additional production costs and lost revenues to certain customers with whom we have entered into customer supply agreements if we are unable to meet certain product quantity and quality requirements. we enter into contracts with certain customers whereby we commit to supply quantities of specified parts at a predetermined scheduled delivery date. the number of such arrangements continues to increase as this practice becomes more commonplace. should we be unable to supply the customer with the specific part at the quantity and product quality desired and on the scheduled delivery date, the customer may incur additional production costs. in addition, the customer may lose revenues due to a delay in receiving the parts necessary to have the end-product ready for sale to its customers or due to product quality issues. under certain customer supply agreements, we may be liable for direct additional production costs or lost revenues. if products are not shipped on time or are quality deficient, we may be liable for penalties and resulting damages. such liability, should it arise, and/or our inability to meet these commitments to our customers may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could damage our relationships with the affected customers, reputation and goodwill. our results of operations could be adversely affected by warranty claims and product liability. 15 we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability suits in connection with reliability problems or other product defects that may affect our customers. our products are used by a variety of industries, including the automotive and medical industries. failure of our products to perform to specifications, or other product defects, could lead to substantial damage to both the end product in which our device has been placed and to the user of such end product. although we take measures to protect against product defects, if a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and any adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. if we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business may be harmed. our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our chief executive officer, our other executive officers, and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers and business unit managers, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. the loss of the services of one or several of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our company. in addition, we could be materially adversely affected if the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increases significantly or we are unsuccessful in attracting, motivating and retaining qualified personnel. should we lose one or more engineers who are key to a project's completion during the course of a particular project, the completion of such project may be delayed which could negatively affect customer relationships and goodwill and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. if we fail to enter into future vendor managed inventory arrangements or fail to supply the specific product or quantity under such arrangements, the results of our operations and financial condition may be materially adversely impacted. we enter into arrangements with certain original equipment manufacturers ( oems ) and electronic manufacturing services ( ems ) partners to consign quantities of certain products within proximity of the oems and ems partners' manufacturing location. the inventory is physically segregated at these locations and we retain title and risk of loss related to this inventory until such time as the oem or ems partner pulls the inventory for use in its manufacturing process. once the inventory is pulled by the oem or ems partner, title and risk of loss pass to the customer, at which point we relieve inventory and recognize revenue and the related cost of goods sold. the specific quantities to be consigned are based on a forecast provided by the oem or ems partner. generally, the arrangements with the oems and ems partners provide for transfer of title and risk of loss once product has been consigned for a certain length of time. we believe these arrangements will continue to grow in terms of number of customers and products and will increase in proportion to consolidated net revenues. should we be unable or unwilling to enter into such agreements as requested by oems or ems partners, our results of operations may be materially adversely impacted. in addition, should we be unable to supply the specific product in the quantity needed by the oem or ems partner as reflected in their forecast, we may be liable for damages, including, but not limited to, lost revenues and increased production costs which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. should we supply product in excess of the oem or ems partners' actual usage, any inventory not consumed may become excess or obsolete, which would result in an inventory write-down that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. we may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may impact our ability to compete effectively. we rely upon know-how, trade secrets, and patents to develop and maintain our competitive position. there can be no assurance that others will not develop or patent similar technology or reverse engineer our products or that the confidentiality agreements upon which we rely will be adequate to protect our interests. moreover, the laws of some foreign countries generally do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the united states, and we may encounter problems in protecting our proprietary rights in those foreign countries. periodically, we have been asked by certain prospective customers to provide them with broad licenses to our intellectual property rights in connection with the sale of our products to them. such licenses, if granted, may have a negative impact on the value of our intellectual property portfolio. other companies have obtained patents covering a variety of semiconductor designs and processes, and we could be required to obtain licenses under some of these patents or be precluded from making and selling products that are alleged to be infringing, if such patents are valid and other design and manufacturing solutions are not available. there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain licenses, if required, upon commercially reasonable terms or at all. 16 we may suffer losses and business interruption if our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others. in the past, it has been common in the semiconductor industry for patent holders to offer licenses on reasonable terms and rates. although the practice of offering licenses appears to be generally continuing, in some situations, typically where the patent directly relates to a specific product or family of products, patent holders have refused to grant licenses. in any of those cases, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain any necessary license on terms acceptable to us, if at all, or that we would be able to re-engineer our products or processes in a cost-effective manner to avoid claims of infringement. any litigation in such a situation could involve an injunction to prevent the sales of a material portion of our products, the reduction or elimination of the value of related inventories and the assessment of a substantial monetary award for damages related to past sales, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we may experience losses related to intellectual property indemnity claims. we provide intellectual property indemnification for certain customers, distributors, suppliers and subcontractors for attorney fees and damages and costs awarded against these parties in certain circumstances in which our products are alleged to infringe third party intellectual property rights, including patents, registered trademarks and copyrights. in certain cases, there are limits on and exceptions to our potential liability for indemnification relating to intellectual property infringement claims. we cannot estimate the amount of potential future payments, if any, that we might be required to make as a result of these agreements. to date, we have not been required to pay significant amounts for intellectual property indemnification claims. however, there can be no assurance that we will not have significant financial exposure under those intellectual property indemnification obligations in the future. shortage of raw materials or supply disruption of such raw materials could harm our business the semiconductor industry has experienced a large expansion of fabrication capacity and production worldwide over time. as a result of increasing demand from semiconductor, solar and other manufacturers, availability of certain basic materials and supplies, and of subcontract services, has been limited from time to time over the past several years, and could come into short supply again if overall industry demand exceeds the supply of these materials and services in the future. we purchase materials and supplies from many suppliers, some of which are sole-sourced. if the availability of these materials and supplies is interrupted, we may not be able to find suitable replacements. in addition, from time to time natural disasters can lead to a shortage of some materials due to disruption of the manufacturer's production. we continually strive to maintain availability of all required materials, supplies and subcontract services. however, we do not have long-term agreements providing for all of these materials, supplies and services, and shortages could occur as a result of capacity limitations or production constraints on suppliers that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our production requirements. our products may fail to meet new industry standards or requirements and the efforts to meet such industry standards or requirements could be costly. many of our products are based on industry standards that are continually evolving. our ability to compete in the future will depend on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with these evolving industry standards. the emergence of new industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major systems manufacturers. as a result, we could be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards or requirements, we could miss opportunities to achieve crucial design wins which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial results. we may pursue acquisitions and investments that could harm our operating results and may disrupt our business. we have made and will continue to consider making strategic business investments, alliances, and acquisitions we consider necessary or desirable to gain access to key technologies that we believe will complement our existing technical capability and support our business model objectives. investments, alliances, and acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties that may negatively impact our future financial performance and result in an impairment of goodwill. if integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or suffer other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee. we may also need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. 17 we also invest in early-to-late stage private companies to further our strategic objectives and support key business initiatives. these strategic investments may not perform as expected. we cannot provide assurance that these companies will operate in a manner that will increase or maintain the value of our investment. if these private companies fail, we may not realize a return on our investments. thus, all of our investments are subject to a risk of a partial or total loss of investment capital. any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability from acquired businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of acquisitions. in addition, because acquisitions of high technology companies are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. our operating results may be adversely affected by increased competition and consolidation of competitors in our market. the semiconductor industry has experienced significant consolidation in recent years. as a result, we experience intense competition from a number of companies, some of which have significantly greater financial, manufacturing and marketing resources than us, as well as greater technical resources and proprietary intellectual property rights than us. the principal elements of competition include product performance, functional value, quality and reliability, technical service and support, price, diversity of product line, and sale of integrated system solutions which combine the functionality of multiple chips on one chip for a price as part of a complete system solution and delivery capabilities. we believe we compete favorably with respect to these factors, although we may be at a disadvantage in comparison to companies with broader product lines, greater technical service and support capabilities and larger research and development budgets. we may be unable to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors and our operating results may be adversely affected by increased competition or our inability to timely develop new products to meet the needs of our customers. in addition, our competitors may become more aggressive in their pricing practices which may adversely impact our gross margins and market share. for example, our competitors may offer lower prices than us, or they may price multiple products or services in a bundle to provide additional incentives that we may not be able to match. we may be unable to mitigate the negative effects of such price competition, which may adversely affect our operating results. extensions in lead-time for delivery of products could adversely affect our future growth opportunities and results of operations. supply constraints, which may include limitations in manufacturing capacity, could impede our ability to grow revenues and meet increased customer demands for our products. our results of operations may be adversely affected if we fail to meet such increase in demand for our products without significantly increasing the lead-time required for our delivery of such products. any significant increase in the lead-time for delivery of products may negatively affect our customer relationships, reputation as a dependable supplier of products and ability to obtain future design wins, while potentially increasing order cancellations, aged, unsaleable or otherwise unrealized backlog, and the likelihood of our breach of supply agreement terms. any of the foregoing factors could negatively affect our future revenue growth and results of operations. we are subject to a variety of domestic and international laws and regulations that could impose substantial costs on us and may adversely affect our business. we are subject to numerous u.s. and international laws, rules and regulations covering a wide variety of subject matters, including, but not limited to, data privacy and protection, environment, safety and health, exports and imports, bribery and corruption, tax, labor and employment, competition, market access, and intellectual property ownership and infringement. compliance with these laws, rules and regulations may be onerous and expensive and could restrict our ability to operate our business. if we fail to comply or if we become subject to enforcement activity, we could be subject to fines, penalties or other legal liability. furthermore, should these laws, rules and regulations be amended or expanded, or new ones enacted, we could incur materially greater compliance costs or restrictions on our ability to operate our business. among other laws and regulations, we are subject to the general data protection regulation ( gdpr ) effective in the european union ( eu ), which created a data protection compliance regime that imposed substantial obligations on companies collecting, processing and transferring personal data and may impose significant penalties for non-compliance. similarly, certain jurisdictions in the united states and some countries in which we operate may consider or have passed legislation implementing data protection requirements that could require us to change our business practices and increase the cost and complexity of compliance. in addition to gdpr, we are subject to the u.s. customs and export regulations, including u.s. international traffic and arms regulations and similar laws, which collectively control import, export and sale of technologies by companies and various other aspects of the operation of our business, and the foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery laws, which prohibit companies from making improper payments to government officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business. 18 while our company's policies and procedures mandate compliance with such laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees and agents will always act in strict compliance. if we fail to comply or if we become subject to enforcement activity, we could be subject to fines, penalties or other legal liability. furthermore, should these laws, rules and regulations be amended or expanded, or new ones enacted, we could incur materially greater compliance costs or restrictions on our ability to operate our business, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. our failure or inability to comply with existing or future laws, rules or regulations, or changes to existing laws, rules or regulations could subject us to fines, penalties or other legal liability. our stock price may be volatile. the market price of our common stock may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. fluctuations have occurred and may continue to occur in response to various factors, including the pending adi merger, many of which are beyond our control. in addition, the market prices of securities of technology companies, including those in the semiconductor industry, generally have been and remain volatile. this volatility has significantly affected the market prices of securities of many technology companies for reasons frequently unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. if our actual operating results or future forecasted results do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, who may derive their expectations by extrapolating data from recent historical operating results, the market price of our common stock may decline. accordingly, you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at a price equal to or higher than the price you paid for them. due to the nature of our compensation programs, some of our executive officers sell shares of our common stock each quarter or otherwise periodically, including pursuant to trading plans established under rule 10b5-1 of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended. regardless of the reasons for such sales, analysts and investors could view such actions in a negative light and the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected as a result of such periodic sales. our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which could adversely impact our common stock price. we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. our operating results have in the past been, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly fluctuations as a result of numerous factors, some of which may contribute to more pronounced fluctuations in an uncertain global economic environment. these factors include, but are not limited to, the following: fluctuations in demand for our products and services; loss of a significant customer or significant customers electing to purchase from another supplier; reduced visibility into our customers' spending plans and associated revenue; the level of price and competition in our product markets; our pricing practices, including our use of available information to maximize pricing potential; the impact of the uncertain economic and credit environment on our customers, channel partners, and suppliers, including their ability to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures; the overall movement toward industry consolidations among our customers and competitors; below industry-average growth of the non-consumer segments of our business; announcements and introductions of new products by our competitors; our ability to generate sufficient earnings and cash flow to pay dividends to our stockholders; deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements (introduced by us or our competitors); our ability to meet increases in customer orders in a timely manner; striking an appropriate balance between short-term execution and long-term innovation; our ability to develop, introduce, and market new products and enhancements and market acceptance of such new products and enhancements; and our levels of operating expenses. environmental, safety and health laws and regulations could force us to expend significant capital and incur substantial costs. various foreign and domestic federal, state, and local government agencies impose a variety of environmental, safety and health laws and regulations on the storage, handling, use, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals, gases and other substances used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process as well as the health and safety regulations related to our employees. historically, compliance with these regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive or financial position. there can be no assurance, however, that interpretation and enforcement of current or future 19 environmental, safety and health laws and regulations will not impose costly requirements upon us. any failure by us to adequately control the storage, handling, use, discharge or disposal of regulated substances could result in fines, sales limitations, suspension of production, alteration of wafer fabrication processes and legal liability, which may materially adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. in addition, some of our customers and potential customers may require that we implement operating practices that are more stringent than applicable legal requirements with respect to health regulations, environmental matters or other items. as a result, these requirements may increase our own costs regarding developing, administering, monitoring and auditing these customer-requested practices at our own sites and those in our supply chain. material impairments of our goodwill and intangible assets could adversely affect our results of operations. we have a significant amount of goodwill and intangible assets on our balance sheet. we test goodwill and intangible assets for impairment annually or more frequently if certain impairment indicators arise or circumstances change that indicate fair value of a reporting unit or intangible asset may be below its carrying amount. determination of fair values require considerable judgment and is sensitive to inherent uncertainties and changes in estimates and assumptions. declines in market conditions, weak trends in anticipated financial performance of reporting units or declines in revenue projections are examples of indicators that carrying values of goodwill or intangible assets may not be recoverable. we may be required to record an impairment that, when incurred, could have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. business interruptions from natural disasters could harm our ability to produce products. we operate our business in worldwide locations. some of our facilities and those of our subcontractors are located in areas of the world that are susceptible to damage from natural disasters and other significant disruptions, including earthquakes, typhoons, hurricanes, tsunamis, volcano eruptions, floods, fires, water shortages, and other natural or man-made catastrophic events. in the event of a natural disaster, we may suffer a disruption in our operations that could adversely affect our results of operations. our financial condition, operations and liquidity may be materially adversely affected in the event of a catastrophic loss for which we are self-insured. we are primarily self-insured with respect to many of our commercial risks and exposures. based on management's assessment and judgment, we have determined that it is generally more cost effective to self-insure these risks. the risks and exposures we self-insure include, but are not limited to, fire, property and casualty, natural disasters, product defects, political risk, social unrest, general liability, theft, counterfeits, patent infringement, certain employment practice matters and medical benefits for many of our u.s. employees. should there be catastrophic loss from events such as fires, explosions, volcano eruptions, earthquakes, or man-made and other natural disasters, among many other risks, or adverse court or similar decisions in any area in which we are self-insured, our financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity may be materially adversely affected. we may be materially adversely affected by currency fluctuations. we conduct our manufacturing and other operations in various worldwide locations. a portion of our operating costs and expenses at foreign locations are paid in local currencies. many of the materials used in our products and much of the manufacturing process for our products are supplied by foreign companies or by our foreign operations, such as our test operations in the philippines and thailand. approximately 89% , 89% and 88% of our net revenues in fiscal years 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were from shipments to customers located outside the united states. currency exchange fluctuations could decrease revenue and increase our operating costs, the cost of components manufactured abroad, and the cost of our products to foreign customers, or decrease the costs of products produced by our foreign competitors. our debt covenants may limit us from engaging in certain transactions or other activities. we have entered into debt arrangements that contain certain covenants which may limit the manner in which we conduct our business. for example, the debt indentures that govern our outstanding notes include covenants that, under certain circumstances, limit our ability to grant liens on our facilities and to enter into sale and leaseback transactions, which could limit our ability to secure additional debt funding in the future. in circumstances involving a change of control of the company followed by a downgrade of the rating of the notes, we would be required to make an offer to repurchase the affected notes at a purchase price greater than the aggregate principal amount of such notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. our ability to repurchase the notes in such events may be limited by our then-available financial resources or by the terms of other agreements to which we are a party. 20 although we currently have the funds necessary to retire this debt, funds might not be available to repay the notes when they become due in the future. we are required to comply with the covenants set forth in our debt indentures. if we breach any of the covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the note holders or lenders, then, subject to cure periods, any outstanding indebtedness may be declared immediately due and payable. exiting certain product lines or businesses, or restructuring our operations, may adversely affect certain customer relationships and produce results that differ from our intended outcomes. the nature of our business requires strategic changes from time to time, including restructuring our operations and divesting and consolidating certain product lines and businesses. the sale of facilities, or the exiting of certain product lines or businesses, may adversely affect certain customer relationships, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. additionally, our ability to timely shut down our facilities or otherwise exit product lines and businesses, or to close or consolidate operations, depends on a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. if we are unable to shut down a facility or exit a product line or business in a timely manner, or to restructure our operations in a manner we deem to be advantageous, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. even if the sale of a facility or divestment is successful, we may face indemnity and other liability claims by the acquirer or other parties. our certificate of incorporation contains certain anti-takeover provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a hostile change in control of our company. our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to authorize the issuance of up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences and privileges and restrictions applicable to such shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. any such issuance might discourage, delay or prevent a hostile change in control of our company, which may be considered beneficial to our stockholders. 21 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 32 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and notes payable. see note 6: financial instruments in the notes to consolidated financial statements included in this annual report. we do not use derivative financial instruments to hedge the ongoing risk of interest rate volatility. at june 27, 2020 , we maintained a significant portfolio of money market fund investments, which are included in cash and cash equivalents. these money market funds are generally invested only in u.s. government or agency securities and are all available on a daily basis. our short-term investments are in u.s. government, corporate and bank debt securities. our long-term notes payable are all fixed rate securities and as such, we have no financial statement risk associated with changes in interest rates related to these notes. 32 to assess the interest rate risk associated with our outstanding long-term debt portfolio, we performed sensitivity analysis for our long-term notes as of june 27, 2020 , using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. the discount rates used were based on the market interest rates in effect at june 27, 2020 . the sensitivity analysis indicated that a hypothetical 100 basis points increase in interest rates would result in a reduction in the fair values of our long-term notes of $46.1 million . foreign currency risk we generate less than 1.0% of our revenues in various global markets based on orders obtained in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we incur expenditures denominated in non-u.s. currencies, primarily the philippine peso and the thai baht associated with our manufacturing activities in the philippines and thailand, respectively, and expenditures for sales offices and research and development activities undertaken outside of the u.s. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates primarily on cash flows for expenditures, orders, and accounts receivable from sales in these foreign currencies. we have established risk management strategies designed to reduce the impact of volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in the exchange rate for these currencies. these strategies reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. we routinely hedge our exposure to certain foreign currencies with various financial institutions in an effort to minimize the impact of certain currency exchange rate fluctuations. if a financial counterparty to any of our hedging arrangements experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of the foreign currency hedge, we may experience financial losses. for derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges under asc no. 815, derivatives and hedging ( asc 815 ), the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income or loss and reclassified into earnings into the same financial statement line as the item being hedged, and in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. gains and losses on the derivative representing either hedge ineffectiveness or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized each period in interest and other income (expense), net. for derivative instruments that are not designated as hedging instruments under asc 815, gains and losses are recognized each period in interest and other income (expense), net. all derivatives are foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain foreign currency denominated assets or liabilities. the gains and losses on these derivatives largely offset the changes in the fair value of the assets or liabilities being hedged. as of june 27, 2020 , we had outstanding foreign currency derivative contracts with a total notional amount of $105.8 million . if overall foreign currency exchange rates appreciated (depreciated) uniformly by 10% against the u.s. dollar, our foreign currency derivative contracts outstanding as of june 27, 2020 would experience an approximately $8.2 million gain (loss). foreign exchange contracts the net unrealized gain or loss, if any, is potentially subject to market and credit risk as it represents appreciation (decline) of the hedge position against the spot exchange rates. the net realized and unrealized gains or losses from hedging foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities were immaterial during the fiscal years ended june 27, 2020 and june 29, 2019 .risk factors 9 risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. please also see the introductory section of this annual report on form 10-k entitled &quot;forward-looking statements&quot; for additional discussion regarding forward-looking statements. if any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. our operating results have been adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions, including the current economic downturn the recent global economic crisis has caused a tightening in the credit markets, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. these macroeconomic developments have negatively affected our business, operating results and financial condition. the current economic environment could also subject us to increased credit risk should customers be unable to pay us, or delay paying us, for previously purchased products. accordingly, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. in addition, weakness in the market for end users of our products could harm the cash flow of our distributors and resellers who could then delay paying their obligations to us or experience other financial difficulties. this would further increase our credit risk exposure and, potentially, cause delays in our recognition of revenue on sales to these customers. 9 the turmoil in the global credit markets may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions. if global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the united states or other key markets, remain uncertain, persist, or deteriorate further, we may experience material adverse effects on our business, operating results, and financial condition. we may have difficulties implementing a new enterprise resource planning system, which may adversely affect our operations and financial reporting we currently expect to implement a new enterprise resource planning (&quot;erp&quot;) system as part of our ongoing efforts to improve and strengthen our operational and financial processes and our reporting systems. any difficulties or delays encountered in the implementation or operation of our new erp system or any difficulties in the operation of our current erp system could cause us to fail to meet customer demand for our product or could delay our ability to meet our financial reporting obligations which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our results of operations. political conditions could materially affect our revenues and results of operations political instability or terrorist activity in various regions of the world and other global events could impact economic activity which, in turn, could lead to a contraction of customer demand or a disruption in our operations. in the past, our assembly contractors in malaysia, south korea, thailand and the philippines have been impacted by political disorders, labor disruptions, criminal activities and natural disasters. we have been affected by these problems in the past and none has materially affected our results of operations to date. however, similar problems in the future or not-yet-materialized consequences of past problems, could affect deliveries of our product to our customers, possibly resulting in substantially delayed or lost sales and/or increased expenses. the occurrence of political conflicts or economic crises in countries where our sort, assembly, test, shipping operations and manufacturing subcontractors or distribution channels or customers are located could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which could adversely impact our common stock price we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. our operating results have in the past, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly fluctuations as a result of numerous factors, some of which may contribute to more pronounced fluctuations in an uncertain global economic environment. these factors include, but are not limited to, the following: &bull; fluctuations in demand for our products and services, in part due to changes in general economic conditions and specific economic conditions in the computer and semiconductor industries; &bull; reduced visibility into our customers' spending plans and associated revenue; &bull; the level of price and product competition in our product markets; &bull; the impact of the current adverse economic and credit environment on our customers, channel partners, and suppliers, including their ability to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures; &bull; the overall movement toward industry consolidations among our customers and competitors; &bull; market acceptance of new products and product enhancements; &bull; announcements and introductions of, and transitions to, new products by us or our competitors; &bull; deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements; introduced by us or our competitors; &bull; our ability to develop, introduce, and market new products and enhancements in a timely manner; and &bull; our levels of expenditure on research and development and sales and marketing programs. our products may fail to meet new industry standards or requirements and the efforts to meet such industry standards or requirements could be costly many of our products are based on industry standards that are continually evolving. our ability to compete in the future will depend on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with these evolving industry standards. the emergence of new industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major systems manufacturers. as a result, we could be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards or requirements, we could miss opportunities to achieve crucial design wins which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial results. 10 our manufacturing operations may be interrupted or suffer yield problems we manufacture most of our wafer production requirements internally. given the nature of our products, it would be very difficult and costly to arrange for independent manufacturing facilities to supply such products. any prolonged inability to utilize one of our manufacturing facilities or a third party foundry as a result of fire, natural disaster, unavailability of electric power or otherwise, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. the manufacture and design of integrated circuits is highly complex. we may experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields or experience product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, capacity constraints, equipment malfunctioning, construction delays, upgrading or expanding existing facilities or changing our process technologies, any of which could result in a loss of future revenues or increases in fixed costs. to the extent we do not achieve acceptable manufacturing yields or there are delays in wafer fabrication, our results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, operating expenses related to increases in production capacity may adversely affect our operating results if revenues do not increase proportionately. our independent distributors and sales representatives may terminate their relationship with us or fail to make payments on outstanding accounts receivable to us, which would affect our financial results a portion of our sales is realized through independent electronics distributors that are not under our control. these independent sales organizations generally represent product lines offered by several companies and thus could reduce their sales efforts applied to our products or terminate their representation of us. we generally require foreign distributors to provide a letter of credit to us in an amount equal to the credit limit set for accounts receivable from such foreign distributors. the letter of credit provides for collection on accounts receivable from the foreign distributor should the foreign distributor default on their accounts receivable to us. where credit limits have been established above the amount of the letter of credit, we are exposed for the difference. we do not require letters of credit from any of our domestic distributors and are not protected against accounts receivable default or bankruptcy by these distributors. the inability to collect open accounts receivable could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. termination of a significant distributor, whether at our or the distributor's initiative, could be disruptive to our current business. our operating results may be adversely affected by increasing competition we experience intense competition from a number of companies, some of which have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, and marketing resources than us while others have greater technical resources and proprietary intellectual property rights than us. the principal elements of competition include product performance, functional value, quality and reliability, technical service and support, price, diversity of product line and delivery capabilities. we believe we compete favorably with respect to these factors, although we may be at a disadvantage in comparison to larger companies with broader product lines and greater technical service and support capabilities. we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors or that our operating results will not be adversely affected by increased competition. our dependence on assembly and test subcontractors may cause delays beyond our control in delivering products to our customers we rely on assembly and csp packaging subcontractors located in the philippines, malaysia, thailand, china, singapore, taiwan, south korea and japan to separate wafers into individual integrated circuits and to package them. none of the assembly subcontractors we currently use are affiliated with us. reliability problems experienced by our assemblers or the inability to replace an assembly subcontractor could cause serious problems in delivery and quality resulting in potential product liability to us. such problems could impair our ability to meet our revenue plan in the fiscal period impacted by the disruption. failure to meet the revenue plan may materially adversely impact our results of operations. we perform substantially all of our final testing at our facilities in the philippines and thailand. any prolonged inability to utilize one of our testing facilities as a result of fire, natural disaster, political instability, unavailability of electric power or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 11 any disruptions in our sort, assembly, test or shipping operations or in the operations of our manufacturing subcontractors, including, but not limited to, the inability or unwillingness of any of our subcontractors to produce adequate supplies of processed wafers, integrated circuit packages or tested product conforming to our quality standards or their inability to provide timely delivery of products or services required by us, could adversely affect the continuity of product supply as well as damage our reputation, relationship and goodwill with affected customers. this, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. furthermore, finding alternate sources of supply or initiating internal wafer processing for these products may not be economically feasible. shortage of raw materials or supply disruption of such raw materials could harm our business the semiconductor industry has experienced a very large expansion of fabrication capacity and production worldwide over time. as a result of increasing demand from semiconductor, solar and other manufacturers, availability of certain basic materials and supplies, such as raw wafers and silicon on insulator wafers, chemicals, gases, polysilicon, silicon wafers, ultra-pure metals, lead frames and molding compounds, and of subcontract services, like epitaxial growth, ion implantation and assembly of integrated circuits into packages, has been limited from time to time over the past several years, and could come into short supply again if overall industry demand exceeds the supply of these materials and services in the future. we purchase materials and supplies from many suppliers, some of which are sole-sourced. if the availability of these materials and supplies is interrupted, we may not be able to find suitable replacements. in addition, from time to time natural disasters can lead to a shortage of some of the above materials due to disruption of the manufacturer's production. we devote continuous efforts to maintain availability of all required materials, supplies and subcontract services. however, we do not have long-term agreements providing for all of these materials, supplies and services, and shortages could occur as a result of capacity limitations or production constraints on suppliers that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our production requirements. environmental liabilities could force us to expend significant capital and incur substantial costs various foreign and united states federal, state, and local government agencies impose a variety of environmental regulations on the storage, handling, use, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals, gases and other substances used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process. there can be no assurance, however, that interpretation and enforcement of current or future environmental regulations will not impose costly requirements upon us. any failure by us to not adequately control the storage, handling, use, discharge or disposal of regulated substances could result in fines, suspension of production, alteration of wafer fabrication processes and legal liability, which may materially adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. we may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may impact our ability to compete effectively we rely upon both know-how and patents to develop and maintain our competitive position. there can be no assurance that others will not develop or patent similar technology, reverse engineer our products or that the confidentiality agreements upon which we rely will be adequate to protect our interests. moreover, the laws of foreign countries generally do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the united states, and we may encounter problems in protecting our proprietary rights in those foreign countries. other companies have obtained patents covering a variety of semiconductor designs and processes, and we might be required to obtain licenses under some of these patents or be precluded from making and selling the infringing products, if these patents are found to be valid. there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain licenses, if required, upon commercially reasonable terms or at all. from time to time, we have received, and in the future may receive, notice of claims of infringement by our products on intellectual property rights of third parties. if one or more of our products or processes were determined to infringe on any such intellectual property rights of a third party, a court might enjoin us from further manufacture and/or sale of the affected products. we would then need to obtain a license from the holders of the rights and/or to re-engineer our products or processes in such a way as to avoid the alleged infringement. in the past, it has been common in the semiconductor industry for patent holders to offer licenses on reasonable terms and rates. although the practice of offering licenses appears to be generally continuing, in some situations, typically where the patent directly relates to a specific product or family of products, patent holders have refused to grant licenses. in any of those cases, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain any necessary license on commercially reasonable terms acceptable to us or at all or that we would be able to re-engineer our products or processes to avoid infringement. an adverse result in litigation arising from such a claim could involve an injunction to prevent the sales of a material portion of our products, the reduction or elimination of the value of related inventories and the assessment of a substantial monetary award for damages related to past sales, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 12 we may experience losses related to intellectual property indemnity claims we provide intellectual property indemnification for certain customers, distributors, suppliers and subcontractors for attorney fees and damages and costs awarded against these parties in certain circumstances in which our products are alleged to infringe third party intellectual property rights, including patents, registered trademarks and copyrights. in certain cases, there are limits on and exceptions to our potential liability for indemnification relating to intellectual property infringement claims. we cannot estimate the amount of potential future payments, if any, that we might be required to make as a result of these agreements. to date, we have not been required to pay significant amounts for intellectual property indemnification claims. however, there can be no assurance that we will not have significant financial exposure under those intellectual property indemnification obligations. we are a party to a purported class action securities litigation arising out of our past stock option granting practices the outcome of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows a purported class action securities lawsuit is pending against the company, its former chief executive officer (now deceased), its former chief financial officer, and its former treasurer, in connection with the company's past stock option grant practices. the lawsuit is still in its preliminary stages and its ultimate outcome could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows for a particular period as well as the trading price for our securities. litigation is also time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to our normal business operations, and outcomes are difficult to predict. the defense of this lawsuit has resulted and will continue to result in significant legal expenditures and diversion of our management's time and attention from business operations. for further discussion on legal matters see &quot; legal proceedings &quot; in part i, item 3 of this annual report on form 10-k. business interruptions from natural disasters could harm our business we operate our business in worldwide locations. our facilities in california, which include our corporate, research and manufacturing facilities, are in close proximity to known earthquake fault zones. in addition, our locations and partner fabrication facilities in japan and southeast asia are susceptible to damage from earthquakes, tsunamis and other natural disasters. in the event of a natural disaster, we may suffer a disruption in our operations which could adversely affect our results of operations. our financial condition, operations and liquidity may be materially adversely affected in the event of a catastrophic loss for which we are self-insured we are primarily self-insured with respect to most of our risks and exposures. based on management's assessment and judgment, we have determined that it is generally more cost effective to self-insure these risks. the risks and exposures we self-insure include, but are not limited to, fire, property and casualty, natural disasters, product defects, political risk, general liability, theft, counterfeits, patent infringement, certain employment practice matters and medical benefits for many of our domestic (united states) employees. we also maintain insurance contracts with independent insurance companies that provide certain of our employees with health (medical and dental) benefits, worker's compensation coverage, long-term disability income coverage, life insurance coverage and fiduciary insurance coverage for employee and company funds invested under the employee retirement income and security act. in addition, we maintain officer and director liability coverage and certain property insurance contracts with independent insurance companies. should there be catastrophic loss from events such as fires, explosions or earthquakes or other natural disasters, among many other risks, or adverse court or similar decisions in any area in which we are self-insured, our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be materially adversely affected. we are subject to warranty claims and product liability we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability suits in connection with reliability problems which may be experienced by our customers. our products are used by varying industries which include the automotive and medical industries. failure of our products to perform to specifications could lead to substantial damage to both the end product in which our device has been placed and to the user of such end product. if a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and any adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we manufacture and sell products into many global jurisdictions where our efforts to contractually limit liability for certain damages, including consequential, indirect and non-proximately caused damages may not be enforceable or may be found by a court to not apply in a particular situation. as we continue to partner with certain customers we may be required to accept increasing exposure for liability including product liability. we believe these relationships with key customers will continue to increase. we continue to attempt to structure our customer relationships to reduce 13 such liability exposures. damages for such liability claims could materially adversely impact the company financially. should we choose to not enter into such relationships, our revenues and financial operations could be materially adversely affected. we may be liable for additional production costs and lost revenues to certain customers with whom we have entered into customer supply agreements, if we are unable to provide a specific part at a certain quantity and product quality we enter into contracts with certain customers whereby we commit to supply quantities of specified parts at a predetermined scheduled delivery date. the number of such arrangements continues to increase as this practice becomes more commonplace. should we be unable to supply the customer with the specific part at the quantity and product quality desired on the scheduled delivery date, the customer may incur additional production costs. in addition, the customer may incur lost revenues due to a delay in receiving the parts necessary to have the end-product ready for sale to its customers or due to product quality issues which may arise. under the customer supply agreements, we may be liable for direct additional production costs or lost revenues. if products were not shipped on time or were quality deficient, we may be liable for penalties and resulting damages. such liability, should it arise, and/or our inability to meet these commitments to our customers may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could damage our relationship, reputation and goodwill with the affected customers. we may pursue acquisitions and investments that could harm our operating results and may disrupt our business we have made and will continue to consider making strategic business investments, alliances and acquisitions we consider necessary to gain access to key technologies that we believe will augment our existing technical capability and support our business model objectives. acquisitions, alliances and investments involve risks and uncertainties that may unfavorably impact our future financial performance. if integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or suffer other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee. we must implement our technology systems in the acquired operations and effectively integrate the different cultures of acquired business organizations into our own. we may also need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability from acquired businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of acquisitions. in addition, because acquisitions of high technology companies are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. if we fail to enter into future vendor managed inventory arrangements or fail to supply the specific product or quantity under such arrangements, the results of our operations and financial condition may be materially adversely impacted we enter into arrangements with certain original equipment manufacturers (&quot;oems&quot;) and electronic manufacturing services (&quot;ems&quot;) partners to consign quantities of certain products within close proximity of the oems and ems partners' manufacturing location. the inventory is physically segregated at these locations and we retain title and risk of loss related to this inventory until such time as the oem or ems partner pulls the inventory for use in their manufacturing process. once the inventory is pulled by the oem or ems partner, title and risk of loss pass to the customer, at which point we relieve inventory, recognize revenue and the related cost of goods sold. the specific quantities to be consigned are based on a forecast provided by the oem or ems partner. generally, the arrangements with the oems and ems partners provide for transfer of title and risk of loss once product has been consigned for a certain length of time. we believe these arrangements will continue to grow in terms of number of customers and products and will increase in proportion to consolidated net revenues. it is our belief that revenues from such arrangement will eventually become significant to consolidated net revenues. should we be unable or unwilling to enter into such agreements as requested by oems or ems partners, our results of operations may be materially adversely impacted. should we be unable to supply the specific product and quantity needed by the oem or ems partner as reflected in their forecast, we may be liable for damages, including but not limited to, lost revenues and increased production costs which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. should we supply product in excess of the oems or ems partners actual usage, any inventory not consumed may become excess or obsolete which would result in an inventory write off that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. 14 our stock price may be volatile the market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly. in the future, the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to general economic and market conditions and in response to quarter-to-quarter variations including but not limited to the following: our anticipated or actual result of operations; announcements or introductions of new products by us or our competitors; anticipated or actual operating results of our customers, peers or competitors; technological innovations or setbacks by us or our competitors; conditions in our four major markets; the commencement or outcome of litigation or governmental investigations; change in ratings and estimates of our performance by securities analysts; announcements of merger or acquisition transactions; dividend changes; changes in our capital structure, including any decision we make in regard to the repurchase of our common stock; management changes; our inclusion in certain stock indices; our inclusion in a national stock exchange; our ability to maintain compliance with the sec reporting requirements; and other events or factors beyond our control. the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of many high technology companies, particularly semiconductor companies. in some instances, these fluctuations appear to have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. any such fluctuation could harm the market price of our common stock. our financial results may be adversely affected by increased tax rates and exposure to additional tax liabilities a number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; recent changes in our global structure that involve an increased investment in technology outside of the united states to better align asset ownership and business functions with revenues and profits; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation; 15 changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and the repatriation of non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. we are subject to taxation in various countries and jurisdictions. significant judgment is required to determine tax liabilities on a worldwide basis. our future tax rates could be affected by various changes in the composition of earnings in countries with different tax rates, changes in our global structure, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in the tax laws. we expect our fiscal year 2010 effective tax rate will be materially higher than 35% and that in subsequent years the effective tax rate will begin to decline as our new global strategy becomes fully operational. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. potential income tax liabilities under section 409a of the internal revenue code and other payroll taxes in the past, a number of our outstanding stock option awards were granted at exercise prices below the fair market value of our stock on the appropriate accounting measurement date. many of these options are potentially subject to option holder excise tax under section 409a of the internal revenue code (and, as applicable, similar excise taxes under state law or foreign law). in fiscal year 2008, we took action to cure certain options from exposure under section 409a. however, there can be no assurance that such action cured all potential circumstances in which section 409a would apply. should it be determined that excise taxes under section 409a were to apply and we decide to reimburse option holders for such taxes, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. also we have determined that certain payroll taxes, interest and penalties may apply under various sections of the internal revenue code, various state tax statutes, and tax statutes in various foreign jurisdictions. maxim has reviewed these potential liabilities and accrued the estimated probable amount of the liability. there can be no assurance that our accruals covered all potential circumstances in which additional payroll taxes, interest and penalties would apply. should it be found that additional payroll taxes, interest and penalties would apply, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. we may be materially adversely affected by currency fluctuations we conduct our manufacturing and other operations in various worldwide locations. a portion of operating costs and expenses at foreign locations are paid in local currencies. many of the materials used in our products and much of the manufacturing process for our products are supplied by foreign companies or by our foreign operations, such as our test operations in the philippines and thailand. approximately 82%, 81% and 79% of our net revenues in fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, were shipped to foreign locations. accordingly, both manufacturing and sales of our products may be adversely affected by political or economic conditions abroad. in addition, various forms of protectionist trade legislation are routinely proposed in the united states and certain foreign countries. a change in current tariff structures or other trade policies could adversely affect our foreign manufacturing or marketing strategies. currency exchange fluctuations could also decrease revenue and increase our operating costs and the cost of components manufactured abroad, and the cost of our products to foreign customers or decrease the costs of products from our foreign competitors. we are subject to u.s. customs and export regulations we are subject to u.s. customs and export regulations, including u.s. international traffic and arms regulations and similar laws, which collectively control import, export and sale of technologies by u.s. companies. failure to comply with such regulations may result in civil and criminal enforcement, including monetary fines and possible injunctions against shipment of product, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business may be harmed our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our chief executive officer, our other executive officers, and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers and business unit managers, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. the loss of the services of one or several of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on us. in addition, there could be a material adverse effect on us should the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increase significantly or should we be unable to continue to attract, motivate and retain qualified personnel. should we lose an engineer who is key to a project's completion during the course of a particular project, the project's completion may be delayed. this delay could negatively affect customer relationships and goodwill and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 16 our certificate of incorporation contains certain anti-takeover provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a hostile change in control of our company our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to authorize the issuance of up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences and privileges and restrictions applicable to such shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. any such issuance might discourage, delay or prevent a hostile change in control of our company. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk the company's exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to its investment portfolio, which includes u.s. treasury securities. maxim limits portfolio duration to reduce default risk, market risk and reinvestment risk. maxim does not use derivative financial instruments to hedge the risks of interest rate volatility. at june 27, 2009, the company investment portfolio had an expected weighted average return of 2.9% (2.7% at june 28, 2008) and a weighted maturity of 170 days (532 days at june 28, 2008). in addition at june 27, 2009, we maintained a significant portfolio of money market investments, which are included in cash and cash equivalents. these money market funds are all available on a daily basis. foreign currency risk we generate revenues outside the united states based on orders obtained in various non-u.s. currencies, primarily the japanese yen, the british pound and the euro. maxim incurs expenditures denominated in various non-us currencies, principally philippine pesos and thailand baht associated with the company's end of line manufacturing activities in the philippines and thailand. maxim is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates primarily on orders and accounts receivable from sales in these foreign currencies and cash flows for expenditures in the foreign currencies. maxim has established risk management strategies designed to reduce the impact of reductions in value and volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in the exchange rates for these currencies. these strategies reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange movements. currency forward contracts are used to offset the currency risk of non-u.s. dollar-denominated assets and liabilities. maxim typically enters into currency forward contracts quarterly to hedge exposures associated with the company expenditures denominated in philippine pesos and thailand baht. maxim enters into contracts each quarter for the company accounts receivable and for its backlog denominated in japanese yen, british pound and euro. these instruments generally have a maturity of less than one year. changes in fair value of the underlying assets and liabilities are generally offset by the changes in fair value of the related currency forward contract. the net realized and unrealized gains or losses from hedging non-u.s. dollar denominated assets and liabilities are recognized in interest income and other, net in the consolidated statements of income. 35 foreign exchange contracts the net unrealized gain or loss, if any, is potentially subject to market and credit risk as it represents appreciation (decline) of the hedge position against the spot exchange rates. the net realized and unrealized gains or losses from hedging foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities were immaterial during the year ended june 27, 2009 and june 28, 2008.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 28 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk the company exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to the company investment portfolio, which includes u.s. treasury, federal agency debt securities, and repurchase agreements relating to such securities. investments mature at frequent intervals during the year, at which time the funds are available for use in the business, or for reinvestment, as cash demands dictate. the company places its investments only in high-quality financial instruments, limits the amount invested in any one institution or instrument, and limits portfolio duration. this policy is intended to reduce default risk, market risk, and reinvestment risk. the company does not use derivative financial instruments in its investment portfolio. the fair value of the company investment portfolio would vary by approximately $13 million by a change in market interest rates of 100 basis points. exposure to interest rate fluctuations is mitigated by maintaining a laddered portfolio of investment instruments that mature at regular intervals over a three-year investment 28 table of contents horizon. by creating a steady stream of cash from maturing investments, the company intends to generate cash to meet business needs without liquidating investments. at june 25, 2005, the company investment portfolio had an expected weighted average return of 2.8% (2.2% at june 26, 2004) and a weighted maturity of 411 days (627 days at june 26, 2004). foreign currency risk the company transacts business in various non-u.s. currencies, primarily the japanese yen, british pound, and the euro. the company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on accounts receivable from sales in these foreign currencies and the net monetary assets and liabilities of the related foreign subsidiary. the company has established risk management strategies designed to protect against reductions in value and volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in exchange rates. these strategies reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange movements. currency forward contracts are used to offset the currency risk of non-u.s. dollar-denominated assets and liabilities. changes in fair value of the underlying assets and liabilities are generally offset by the changes in fair value of the related currency forward contract. the net realized and unrealized gains or losses from hedging non-u.s. dollar denominated assets and liabilities were immaterial in fiscal years 2005 and 2004. the company had forward contracts to sell foreign currencies for $53.2 million and $82.1 million at june 25, 2005 and june 26, 2004, respectively. the fair market value of these forward contracts was $1.0 million and $(1.5) million at june 25, 2005 and june 26, 2004, respectively. a hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates compared to rates at june 25, 2005 and june 26, 2004 would not have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations.risk factors 5-15 risk factors you should carefully consider and evaluate the risk factors described below and those noted in item 1 business of this annual report on form 10-k, together with all of the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently deemed immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition and operating results. if any of these risks occur, our business could be materially harmed. if our business is harmed, the trading price of our common stock could decline. this annual report on form 10-k contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. risks related to the investigation of our historical stock option practices and the resulting restatement of our prior financial statements as discussed in the explanatory note to this form 10-k and our management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations contained in item 7 of part ii, our review of our stock option grant practices resulted in the restatement of certain of our past financial statements, as contained herein. in connection with our past stock option grant practices, we have been subjected to a number of ongoing shareholder lawsuits, unable to file periodic reports to the sec on a timely basis, and delisted from the nasdaq global select market (formerly the 5 table of contents nasdaq national market). we have also been subject to an informal inquiry by the sec, subject to an investigation by the u.s. attorney for the northern district of california (the u.s. attorney ), subject to an ongoing audit by the internal revenue service, and required to suspend the issuance of shares upon the exercise of all of our outstanding stock options and restricted stock units ( rsus ) and purchases under our employee stock purchase program inasmuch as our form s-8 registration statements for our equity plans are not effective because of our delinquent sec periodic reporting. the informal sec investigation has subsequently been settled without any admission of wrongdoing on the part of the company and without any assessment of penalties and the u.s attorney subsequently informed us that its office does not intend to pursue any further investigation or action against the company concerning our option grant practices. as a result of these events, we have been and remain subject to a number of risks, including the following, each of which could result in a material adverse effect to our business, financial condition and results of operations and/or a negative effect on the market for our stock: (i) the commencement of additional regulatory or governmental investigations relating to our restatement or option grant practices, (ii) private litigation relating to our restatement or option grant practices, including the pending or new stockholder litigation or possible litigation by option holders, (iii) currently unanticipated issues with respect to our restatement or our ability to become current in our periodic sec reports that could materially delay our ability to permit the exercise of outstanding options and rsus and to achieve relisting on nasdaq or another national securities exchange, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the liquidity of our common stock and our ability to recruit and retain employees; (iv) additional significant costs in effectuating on-going or additional remedial actions or in dealing with any further litigation or unanticipated problems in attaining relisting of our shares on nasdaq or another national securities exchange and (v) diversion of the time and attention of members of our management and our board of directors from the management of our business. dependence on new products, packages and process technologies our future success will continue to depend on our ability to introduce new products and to develop new packages and process technologies. semiconductor design and package and process technologies are subject to rapid technological change, requiring a high level of expenditures for time consuming research and development. design and package and process development for the portions of the semiconductor market in which we participate are particularly challenging. the success of new product introductions is dependent on several factors, including proper product features, timely product introduction, achievement of acceptable production test times and yields. from time to time, we have not fully achieved our new product introduction and process development goals. there can be no assurance that we will successfully develop or implement new process technologies or that new products will be introduced on a timely basis or receive sufficient market acceptance. it is difficult to predict a schedule for a new product. if a product is not developed on time or does not meet a customer specifications, the development can be a complete failure. additionally, we do not always have the necessary development tools, the number of engineers, product definers or business managers, skill sets or experience required in these areas, which may result in our not meeting our research and development goals. development tools sometimes require licensing and sometimes become obsolete, which can contribute to higher research and development expenses. dependence on new markets and consumer demand our growth is dependent on our continued ability to defend our existing market and penetrate new markets. we have limited experience in new markets and competition is intense. innovation, by its nature, is dependent on applying good judgment to predict future technology trends, often based on little existing data about those new markets. there can be no assurance that the markets we serve will grow (for example, older markets do saturate and decline); that our existing and new products will meet the requirements of such markets; that our products will achieve customer acceptance in such markets; that competitors will not drive prices to an unacceptably low level or take market share from us; or that we can achieve or maintain profitability in these markets. additionally, we have increased the emphasis on highly-integrated products in our product development plans. such products are more vulnerable to time-to-market demands, proper new product definitions with the right set of functionalities, development execution delays and gross margin pressure. delays in product development can significantly reduce return on investment and adversely affect our growth. in addition, highly integrated product lives are generally shorter. shorter product lives can result in excess inventory which we would have to write down. such write downs may materially adversely impact our results of operations. furthermore, changes in demand in the market could have a negative impact on certain of our products. such change in demand and resulting restructuring of or changes in our business could lead to the closure or consolidation of facilities. this may result in additional costs which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. 6 table of contents industry standard risks many of our products are based on industry standards that are continually evolving. our ability to compete in the future will depend on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with these evolving industry standards. the emergence of new industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major systems manufacturers. as a result, we could be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards or requirements, we could miss opportunities to achieve crucial design wins which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating and financial results. manufacturing risks the fabrication of integrated circuits is a highly complex and precise process. minute impurities, contaminants in the manufacturing environment, difficulties in the fabrication process, defects in the masks used in the wafer manufacturing process, manufacturing equipment failures, wafer breakage, or other factors can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous dice on each wafer to be nonfunctional. we have from time to time experienced reliability problems and lower-than-expected production yields, which have delayed product shipments and adversely affected gross margins. there can be no assurance that we will not experience a decrease in manufacturing yields or reliability or quality problems that could expose us to liability, product returns and product warranty claims. further, the number of shippable dice per wafer for a given product is critical to our results of operations. to the extent we do not achieve acceptable manufacturing yields or experience delays in wafer fabrication, wafer sort, assembly or final test operations, our results of operations could be adversely affected. during periods of decreased demand, fixed wafer fabrication costs could have an adverse effect on the company financial condition, gross margins, and results of operations. the relatively lengthy manufacturing cycle could result in inventory imbalances. a product or inventory shortage could adversely affect our customer relations, while any excess inventory may ultimately become unsalable. the occurrence of either of such events may adversely affect our financial condition. we manufacture most of our wafer production requirements internally. given the nature of our products, it would be very difficult and costly to arrange for independent manufacturing facilities to supply such products. any prolonged inability to utilize one of our manufacturing facilities as a result of fire, natural disaster, unavailability of electric power or otherwise, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, some of our current manufacturing and test equipment may become excess or obsolete over time due to changes in manufacturing or test processes, technology changes, or changes in demand for our products. should this occur, we would be required to write down such equipment to its salvage value which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. competition we experience intense competition from a number of companies, some of which have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, and marketing resources than us while others have greater technical resources and proprietary intellectual property rights than us. our ability to compete successfully depends on factors both within and outside our control. we may be excluded from our customers product designs because we cannot provide a complete chip set as required by the customer. there can be no assurance that competitive factors will not adversely affect our future business. to the extent that our proprietary products become more successful, competitors will offer second source products or functionally equivalent products for some of those products, which could erode our profit margins. competitors may develop or acquire intellectual property that can control certain portions of the semiconductor market in which we compete. our competitors could use this intellectual property to design products that compete more favorably with our products in terms of performance and pricing. competitors could also use this intellectual property to design products that can be bundled with other products offered by the competitor and thus exclude us from competing on additional products or in other semiconductor markets. additionally, the development or acquisition by competitors of intellectual property could prevent us from using such intellectual property in the product development process or could cause delays in such development. certain of our product offerings are an attractive target for smaller competitors with lower gross and operating margin percentage levels than ours. these companies often target our product offerings with direct or functionally-equivalent second-sources and attempt to take market share at gross and operating margin percentage levels that are improvements to their financial performance but which would be detrimental to our objectives. 7 table of contents dependence on independent distributors and sales representatives a portion of our sales is realized through independent electronics distributors that are not under our control. these independent sales organizations generally represent product lines offered by several companies and thus could reduce their sales efforts applied to our products or terminate their representation of us. we generally require foreign distributors to provide a letter of credit to us in an amount equal to the credit limit set for accounts receivable from such foreign distributors. the letter of credit provides for collection on accounts receivable from the foreign distributor should the foreign distributor default on their accounts receivable to us. in limited instances, where credit limits have been established above the amount of the letter of credit, we are exposed for the difference. we do not require letters of credit from any of our domestic distributors and are not protected against accounts receivable default or bankruptcy by these distributors. the inability to collect open accounts receivable could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. termination of a significant distributor, whether at our or the distributor initiative, could be disruptive to our current business. as previously noted, in fiscal year 2008, we selected one of our distributors, avnet, inc., as our primary global distributor and ended our distribution arrangements with arrow electronics. should we not successfully transition end customers currently purchasing product from arrow electronics to purchasing product from avnet or other company franchised distributors, such customers might begin purchasing our competitor products. this, along with the inability to find a suitable replacement should a significant distributor or representative terminate their distributor arrangement with us, could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. additionally, should the intended benefits from selecting avnet as our primary global distributor not materialize, our results of operations could be adversely affected. dependence on independent foundries, subcontractors, thailand and philippines test and shipping facilities we have an internal capability to fabricate most of our wafers and we remain dependent on outside silicon foundries for a portion of our wafer fabrication. none of the independent foundries currently used by us is affiliated with us. as is typical in the semiconductor industry, from time to time, we have experienced disruptions in the supply of processed wafers from these foundries due to quality problems, unsatisfactory electrical yields, capacity limitations and process obsolescence. procurement from foundries is done by purchase order and contracts. should our orders for purchases of integrated circuits manufactured by these silicon foundries not reflect our customers ultimate demand for related products, we could have either excess inventory or insufficient inventory to satisfy demand. excess inventory would result in an inventory write off that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. too little inventory would prevent us from meeting customer demand and could potentially damage customer relationships and future revenue growth from these customers. we rely on assembly subcontractors located in the philippines, malaysia, thailand, china, singapore, taiwan and south korea to separate wafers into individual integrated circuits and to package them. none of the assembly subcontractors we currently use is affiliated with us. reliability problems experienced by our assemblers or the inability to replace an assembly subcontractor could cause serious problems in delivery and quality resulting in potential product liability to us. such problems could impair our ability to meet our revenue plan in the fiscal period impacted by the disruption. failure to meet the revenue plan may materially adversely impact our results of operations. we perform substantially all of our final testing at our facilities in the philippines and thailand. any prolonged inability to utilize one of our testing facilities as a result of fire, natural disaster, political instability, unavailability of electric power or otherwise, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in fiscal year 2009, we plan to reduce our wafer sort, final test, and shipping operations in all of our domestic-based facilities in order to reduce manufacturing costs. this production will be transferred to our manufacturing facilities located in cavite, the philippines or chonburi province, thailand. products currently produced at our domestic facilities have a high technical content and are more difficult to manufacture than the products currently tested in our offshore facilities. failure to successfully transfer manufacturing of these products to our offshore facilities may result in reduced yields and unsatisfactory quality. failure to successfully transfer this manufacturing to our offshore facilities may adversely affect our ability to supply products to our customers which could materially adversely impact our results of operations. as previously noted, the majority of our finished products currently ship directly from cavite, the philippines or chonburi province, thailand to our customers worldwide or to other maxim locations for sale to end customers or distributors. should there be disruption for any reason to either of our shipping operations in cavite, the philippines or chonburi province, thailand, we might not be able to meet our revenue plan in the fiscal period impacted by the disruption. failure to meet the revenue plan may materially adversely impact our results of operations. 8 table of contents we currently expect that in fiscal year 2009 we will need to add additional sort and final test capacity to meet customer demand. in the past, we have generally met increased sort and final test capacity requirements by constructing additional manufacturing space; however, in fiscal year 2009, we also anticipate to enter into outsourcing agreements with major assembly and test subcontractors in asia. failure to expand manufacturing space or negotiate an acceptable contract with a suitable subcontractor could result in increased manufacturing costs. additionally, such failure may result in insufficient internal manufacturing capacity. given the complexity of our wafer sort and final test operations, it may be difficult to transfer production to a third party without suffering yield, quality, or delivery problems. failure of the subcontractor to perform satisfactorily may adversely affect our costs and our ability to supply products to our customers which could materially adversely impact our results of operations. any disruptions in our sort, assembly, test or shipping operations or in the operations of our manufacturing subcontractors, including, but not limited to, the inability or unwillingness of any of our these subcontractors to produce adequate supplies of processed wafers, integrated circuit packages or tested product conforming to our quality standards or their inability to provide timely delivery of products or services required by us, could adversely affect the continuity of product supply as well as damage our reputation, relationship and goodwill with affected customers. this, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. furthermore, finding alternate sources of supply or initiating internal wafer processing for these products may not be economically feasible. availability and quality of materials, supplies, and subcontract services the semiconductor industry has experienced a very large expansion of fabrication capacity and production worldwide over time. as a result of increasing demand from semiconductor, solar and other manufacturers, availability of certain basic materials and supplies, such as raw wafers and silicon on insulator wafers, chemicals, gases, polysilicon, silicon wafers, ultra-pure metals, lead frames and molding compounds, and of subcontract services, like epitaxial growth, ion implantation and assembly of integrated circuits into packages, has been limited from time to time over the past several years, and could come into short supply again if overall industry demand exceeds the supply of these materials and services in the future. we purchase materials and supplies from many suppliers, some of which are sole-sourced. if the availability of these materials and supplies is interrupted, we may not be able to find suitable replacements. in addition, from time to time natural disasters can lead to a shortage of some of the above materials due to disruption of the manufacturer production. we devote continuous efforts to maintain availability of all required materials, supplies and subcontract services. however, we do not have long-term agreements providing for all of these materials, supplies and services, and shortages could occur as a result of capacity limitations or production constraints on suppliers that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our planned production. a number of our products, including nonvolatile static random access memory products ( srams ), real time clocks, and ibutton products use components such as memory circuits, batteries, pc boards and crystals that are purchased from third parties. we anticipate that, from time to time, supplies of these components may not be sufficient to meet all customer requested delivery dates for products containing the components. as a result of any such shortages, future sales and earnings from products using these components could be adversely affected. additionally, significant fluctuations in the purchase price for these components could affect gross margins for the products involved. suppliers could also discontinue the manufacture of such purchased products or could have quality problems that could affect our ability to meet customer commitments. quality problems experienced by suppliers may be impossible to reproduce or detect in a controlled environment, or may not be detected by our quality control procedures. should undetected quality problems occur, such defects may become part of our finished product ultimately sold to customers. if such defects cause quality control problems in the manufacture of customers end-products or cause direct or indirect damages to either our customers or the ultimate end-user, we may be liable for our customers increased production costs and both direct and indirect damages caused by the defective product. such liability could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, suppliers of semiconductor manufacturing equipment are sometimes unable to deliver test and/or wafer fabrication equipment to a schedule or equipment performance specification that meets our requirements. delays in delivery of equipment could adversely affect our ability to achieve our manufacturing and revenue plans in the future. 9 table of contents environmental regulation various foreign and united states federal, state, and local government agencies impose a variety of environmental regulations on the storage, handling, use, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals, gases and other substances used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process. there can be no assurance, however, that interpretation and enforcement of current or future environmental regulations will not impose costly requirements upon us. any failure by us to not adequately control the storage, handling, use, discharge or disposal of regulated substances could result in fines, suspension of production, alteration of wafer fabrication processes and legal liability, which may materially adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. increasing public attention has been focused on the environmental impact of electronic manufacturing operations and waste electronic equipment. while we to date have not experienced any material adverse effects on our business from environmental regulations, there can be no assurance that changes in such regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. possible effects include, but are not limited to, making costly changes to manufacturing, waste discharge or disposal processes and purchasing higher cost equipment or materials. in 2003, the european union ( eu ) adopted mandatory restrictions on the use of certain hazardous substances including, but not limited to, cadmium, lead and mercury. the deadline to comply with these restrictions was july 1, 2006. other countries, including those in asia, have adopted voluntary programs or are considering legislation to restrict or prohibit the use of certain hazardous substances. we also anticipate that more stringent environmental rules and regulations will come in effect in the future. we have transitioned the manufacturing process of most of our products to eliminate the use of these hazardous substances which are currently prohibited. however, some of our products may still contain lead and other prohibited hazardous substances which continue to be sold under certain authorized exemptions. if our products do not meet the eu or our customer restriction on the use of certain hazardous substances or similar restrictions by other countries which may enact such legislation, it would preclude us from selling products containing these substances to customers in these affected locations, and our customers will find alternate suppliers. this could materially impact our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, we still maintain products in our inventory which contain these substances based on forecasted demand from certain customers. we periodically write off any quantities of such products that are in excess of forecasted demand. should we be unable to sell any such products remaining in our inventory to locations or customers which do not have such restrictions or if customers revise purchase orders to reduce order quantities of products containing lead and other hazardous substances, we would have to write such inventory off as obsolete. this could materially adversely impact our results of operations. in addition to the above, should we ship product with restrictions on the use of certain hazardous substances into countries which prohibit such substances, we may be subject to fines from government authorities and damage claims from customers. such fines and damage claims could materially adversely impact our results of operations. in addition, should we be required to use additional outside subcontractors, due to any environmental restrictions on certain of our products, there can be no guarantee that we would be able to locate an acceptable vendor or successfully transfer the manufacturing of the products containing hazardous substances once an acceptable vendor were located. our inability to locate an acceptable vendor or effectively transfer production could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. protection of proprietary information and intellectual property indemnification we rely upon both know-how and patents to develop and maintain our competitive position. there can be no assurance that others will not develop or patent similar technology, reverse engineer our products or that the confidentiality agreements upon which we rely will be adequate to protect our interests. moreover, the laws of foreign countries generally do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the united states, and we may encounter problems in protecting our proprietary rights in those foreign countries. other companies have obtained patents covering a variety of semiconductor designs and processes, and we might be required to obtain licenses under some of these patents or be precluded from making and selling the infringing products, if these patents are found to be valid. there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain licenses, if required, upon commercially reasonable terms or at all. from time to time, we have received, and in the future may receive, notice of claims of infringement by our products on intellectual property rights of third parties. if one or more of our products or processes were determined to infringe on any such intellectual property rights of a third party, a court might enjoin us from further manufacture and/or sale of the affected products. we would then need to obtain a license from the holders of the rights and/or to re-engineer our products or processes in such a way as to avoid the alleged infringement. in the past, it has been common in the semiconductor industry for patent holders to offer licenses on reasonable terms and rates. although the practice of offering licenses appears to be generally continuing, in some situations, typically where the patent directly relates to 10 table of contents a specific product or family of products, patent holders have refused to grant licenses. in any of those cases, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain any necessary license on commercially reasonable terms acceptable to us or at all or that we would be able to re-engineer our products or processes to avoid infringement. an adverse result in litigation arising from such a claim could involve an injunction to prevent the sales of a material portion of our products, the reduction or elimination of the value of related inventories and the assessment of a substantial monetary award for damages related to past sales, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we provide intellectual property indemnification for certain customers, distributors, suppliers and subcontractors for attorney fees and damages and costs awarded against these parties in certain circumstances in which our products are alleged to infringe third party intellectual property rights, including patents, registered trademarks and copyrights. in certain cases, there are limits on and exceptions to our potential liability for indemnification relating to intellectual property infringement claims. we cannot estimate the amount of potential future payments, if any, that we might be required to make as a result of these agreements. to date, we have not been required to pay significant amounts for intellectual property indemnification claims. however, there can be no assurance that we will not have significant financial exposure under those intellectual property indemnification obligations. enterprise resource planning system we currently expect to implement a new enterprise resource planning ( erp ) system as part of our ongoing efforts to improve and strengthen our operational and financial processes and our reporting systems. any difficulties encountered in the implementation or operation of our new erp system or any difficulties in the operation of our current erp system could cause us to fail to meet customer demand for our product or could delay our ability to meet our financial reporting obligations which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our results of operations. global economic and political conditions our business is increasingly dependent on the global economy. any global events impacting the world economy or specific regions of the world, such as political instability or terrorist activity, could impact economic activity which, in turn, could lead to a contraction of customer demand or a disruption in our operations. in the past, our assembly contractors in malaysia, south korea, thailand and the philippines have been impacted by political disorders, labor disruptions, criminal activities and natural disasters. we have been affected by these problems in the past and none has materially affected our results of operations to date. however, similar problems in the future or not-yet-materialized consequences of past problems, could affect deliveries of our product to our customers, possibly resulting in substantially delayed or lost sales and/or increased expenses. the occurrence of political conflicts or economic crises in countries where our sort, assembly, test, shipping operations and manufacturing subcontractors or distribution channels or customers are located could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. natural disasters we operate our business in worldwide locations. our facilities in california, which include our corporate, research and manufacturing facilities, are in close proximity to known earthquake fault zones. in addition, our locations in southeast asia are susceptible to damage from earthquakes, tsunamis and other natural disasters. in the event of a natural disaster, we may suffer a disruption in our operations which could adversely affect our results of operations. insurance we are primarily self-insured with respect to most of our risks and exposures. based on management assessment and judgment, we have determined that it is generally more cost effective to self-insure these risks. the risks and exposures we self-insure include, but are not limited to, fire, property and casualty, natural disasters, product defects, political risk, general liability, theft, counterfeits, patent infringement, certain employment practice matters and medical benefits for the vast majority of our domestic (united states) employees. we also maintain insurance contracts with independent insurance companies that provide certain of our employees with health (medical and dental) benefits, worker compensation coverage, long-term disability income coverage, life insurance coverage and fiduciary insurance coverage for employee and company funds invested under the employee retirement income and security act. in addition, we maintain officer and director liability coverage and certain property insurance contracts with independent insurance companies. should there be catastrophic loss from events such as fires, explosions or earthquakes or other natural disasters, among many other risks, or adverse court or similar decisions in any area in which we are self-insured, our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be materially adversely affected. 11 table of contents product liability we warrant our products to our customers generally for one year from the date of shipment, but in certain cases for longer periods. warranty expense to date has been minimal. in certain cases, which are becoming more commonplace, our product warranty may include significant financial responsibility beyond the cost of replacing the product. in the event that significant warranty claims in excess of historical levels are incurred, our results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability suits in connection with reliability problems which may be experienced by our customers. our products are used by varying industries which include the automotive and medical industries. failure of our products to perform to specifications could lead to substantial damage to both the end product in which our device has been placed and to the user of such end product. if a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and any adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we manufacture and sell products into many global jurisdictions where our efforts to contractually limit liability for certain damages, including consequential, indirect and non-proximately caused damages may not be enforceable or may found by a court to not apply in a particular situation. as we continue to partner with certain customers we may be required to accept increasing exposure for liability including product liability. we believe these relationships with key customers will continue to increase. we continue to attempt to structure our relationships to reduce such liability exposures. additionally, we attempt to mitigate these exposures through our quality assurance developing and maintaining closer working relationships with our critical customers. claims for damages arising in such liability claims could materially impact the company financially. should we choose to not enter such relationships, our revenues and financial operations could be materially affected. customer supply agreements we enter into contracts with certain customers whereby we commit to supply quantities of specified parts at a predetermined scheduled delivery date. the number of such arrangements continues to increase as this practice becomes more commonplace. should we be unable to supply the customer with the specific part at the quantity and product quality desired on the scheduled delivery date, the customer may incur additional production costs. in addition, the customer may incur lost revenues due to a delay in receiving the parts necessary to have the end-product ready for sale to its customers or due to product quality issues which may arise. under the customer supply agreements, we may be liable for direct additional production costs or lost revenues. if products were not shipped on time or were quality deficient, we may be liable for resulting damages. such liability, should it arise, and/or our inability to meet these commitments to our customers may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and would damage our relationship, reputation and goodwill with the affected customers. vendor managed inventory we enter into arrangements with certain original equipment manufacturers ( oems ) and electronic manufacturing services ( ems ) partners to consign quantities of certain products within close proximity of the oems and ems partners manufacturing location. the inventory is physically segregated at these locations and we retain title and risk of loss related to this inventory until such time as the oem or ems partner pulls the inventory for use in their manufacturing process. once the inventory is pulled by the oem or ems partner, title and risk of loss pass to the customer, at which point we relieve inventory, recognize revenue and the related cost of goods sold. the specific quantities to be consigned are based on a forecast provided by the oem or ems partner. generally, the arrangements with the oems and ems partners provide for transfer of title and risk of loss once product has been consigned for a certain length of time. we believe these arrangements will continue to grow in terms of number of customers and products and will increase in proportion to consolidated net revenues. it is our belief that revenues from such arrangement will eventually become significant to consolidated net revenues. should we be unable or unwilling to enter into such agreements as requested by oems or ems partners, our results of operations may be materially adversely impacted. should we be unable to supply the specific product and quantity needed by the oem or ems partner as reflected in their forecast, we may be liable for damages, including but not limited to, lost revenues and increased production costs which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. should we supply product in excess of the oems or ems partners actual usage, any inventory not consumed may become excess or obsolete which would result in an inventory write off that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. 12 table of contents volatility of stock price the market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly. in the future, the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to general economic and market conditions and in response to quarter-to-quarter variations including but not limited to the following: our anticipated or actual result of operations; announcements or introductions of new products by us or our competitors; anticipated or actual operating results of our customers, peers or competitors; technological innovations or setbacks by us or our competitors; conditions in our four major markets; the commencement or outcome of litigation or governmental investigations; change in ratings and estimates of our performance by securities analysts; announcements of merger or acquisition transactions; announcement of a transaction in which employees may exchange their under-water stock options for new equity, cash or a combination of new equity or cash; dividend changes; changes in our capital structure, including any decision we make in regard to the repurchase of our common stock; management changes; our inclusion in certain stock indices; our inclusion in a national stock exchange; our ability to maintain compliance with the sec reporting requirements; and other events or factors beyond our control. the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of many high technology companies, particularly semiconductor companies. in some instances, these fluctuations appear to have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. any such fluctuation could harm the market price of our common stock. taxes a number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and the repatriation of non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. we are subject to taxation in various countries and jurisdictions. significant judgment is required to determine tax 13 table of contents liabilities on a worldwide basis. our future tax rates could be affected by various changes in the composition of earnings in countries with different tax rates, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in the tax laws. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods and may materially adversely impact our results from operations. potential income tax liabilities under section 409a of the internal revenue code and other tax penalties as a result of our investigation into our historical stock option granting practices, we have determined that a number of our outstanding stock option awards were granted at exercise prices below the fair market value of our stock on the appropriate accounting measurement date. the primary adverse tax consequence is that the re-measured options vesting after december 31, 2004, or options that are materially modified after october 3, 2004, are potentially subject to option holder excise tax under section 409a of the internal revenue code (and, as applicable, similar excise taxes under state law or foreign law). our option holders who hold options which are determined to have been granted with exercise prices below the fair market value of the underlying shares of common stock on the appropriate measurement date would be subject to taxes, penalties and interest under section 409a if no action is taken to cure the options from exposure under section 409a before december 31, 2008. we took action in fiscal year 2008 to cure certain options from exposure under section 409a. there can be no assurance that such action cured all potential circumstances in which section 409a would apply to equity grants vesting or materially modified after december 31, 2004. should it be found that excise taxes under section 409a apply to option holders subsequent to our ability to cure the options from exposure to section 409a and we decide to reimburse option holders for such taxes, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. also as a result of our investigation into equity awards, we have determined that certain payroll taxes, interest and penalties apply under various sections of the internal revenue code, various state tax statutes, and tax statutes in various foreign jurisdictions. maxim has reviewed these potential liabilities and accrued the amount we deem most likely to apply to our circumstances. there can be no assurance that maxim accruals covered all potential circumstances in which additional payroll taxes, interest and penalties would apply. should it be found that additional payroll taxes, interest and penalties would apply, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. foreign trade and currency fluctuations we conduct our manufacturing and other operations in various worldwide locations. a portion of operating costs and expenses at foreign locations are paid in local currencies. many of the materials used in our products and much of the manufacturing process for our products are supplied by foreign companies or by our foreign operations, such as our test operations in the philippines and thailand. approximately 78%, 74% and 73% of our net revenues in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 were shipped to foreign locations. accordingly, both manufacturing and sales of our products may be adversely affected by political or economic conditions abroad. in addition, various forms of protectionist trade legislation are routinely proposed in the united states and certain foreign countries. a change in current tariff structures or other trade policies could adversely affect our foreign manufacturing or marketing strategies. currency exchange fluctuations could also increase our operating costs and the cost of components manufactured abroad, and the cost of our products to foreign customers or decrease the costs of products from our foreign competitors. we are subject to u.s. customs and export regulations, including u.s. international traffic and arms regulations and similar laws, which collectively control import, export and sale of technologies by u.s. companies. failure to comply with such regulations may result in civil and criminal enforcement, including monetary fines and possible injunctions against shipment of product, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. dependence on key personnel our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our chief executive officer, our other executive officers, and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers and business unit managers, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. the competition for such employees is intense. we believe our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel has not been significantly affected by the consequences of the independent stock option review including, but are not limited to, the inability to allow exercise of employee stock options and restricted stock units, inability to participate in the employee stock purchase plan, delisting of our common stock from trading on nasdaq and unavailability of financial information regarding our financial performance. 14 table of contents the loss of the services of one or several of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on us. in addition, there could be a material adverse effect on us should the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increase significantly or should we be unable to continue to attract, motivate and retain qualified personnel. should we lose an engineer who is key to a project completion during the course of a particular project, the project completion may be delayed. this delay could negatively affect customer relationships and goodwill and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we do not maintain any key person life insurance policies on any of our officers or employees. we are planning to offer our employees the opportunity to exchange their stock options which have an exercise price greater than the company stock price ( under-water stock options ) for equity, cash or some combination thereof, subject to all required approvals. if we are unable to complete such an exchange transaction, it may result in the loss of services of key personnel, low morale and decreased productivity. senior management changes; reduced productivity of new hires during fiscal years 2007 and 2008, we experienced significant change in our senior management team and we may continue to experience such changes. our former chief executive officer ( ceo ) and our former chief financial officer ( cfo ) no longer served the company in any capacity after january 2007. they were immediately replaced by mr. doluca, former group president, as the new ceo and member of the board of directors and alan p. hale, vice president of maxim and former chief financial officer of dallas semiconductor (acquired by maxim in fiscal 2001) as interim chief financial officer and principal accounting officer. in addition, a number of other members of the senior management team were promoted to new roles during fiscal year 2007, principally matthew murphy to vice president of worldwide sales and vijay ullal to group president. later, in september 2007, mr. bruce kiddoo joined the company as vice president of finance. following the completion of the company restatement of previously filed financial statements, mr. kiddoo will be appointed chief financial officer and principal accounting officer of the company. for new employees or changes in senior management, there may be reduced levels of productivity as recent additions or hires are trained or otherwise assimilate and adapt to our organization and culture. further, this turnover may also make it difficult to execute on our business plan and achieve our planned financial results. internal controls over financial reporting as of june 24, 2006, material weaknesses existed in our internal control over financial reporting related to our not maintaining an effective control environment and, separately, not maintaining effective controls over our stock option practices and the related accounting for stock option transactions, which are discussed in further detail in item 9a controls and procedures. as a result of these material weaknesses, our systems of internal controls failed to timely prevent or detect errors which had a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations and led to the restatement of our financial statements as discussed in note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included herein. there can be no assurance that subsequent to the filing date of this annual report on form 10-k that additional material weaknesses will not be identified which will have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. potential dilutive effect of additional stock issuance we have a significant number of authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available. these shares will provide us with the flexibility to issue our common stock for proper corporate purposes, which may include making acquisitions through the use of stock, adopting additional equity incentive plans and raising equity capital. any issuance of our common stock may result in immediate dilution of our stockholders. anti-takeover provisions our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to authorize the issuance of up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences and privileges and restrictions applicable to such shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. any such issuance might discourage, delay or prevent a hostile change in control of our company. 15 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 68-69 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio, which includes u.s. treasury and federal agency debt securities, and repurchase agreements relating to such securities or money market funds restricted to investment in these instruments. investments mature at frequent intervals during the year, at which time the funds are available for use in the business, or for reinvestment, as cash demands dictate. we place our investments only in high-quality financial instruments, limit the amount invested in any one institution or instrument, and limit portfolio duration. this policy is intended to reduce default risk, market risk and reinvestment risk. we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. the fair value of our investment portfolio would vary by approximately $5 million by a change in market interest rates of 100 basis points as of june 24, 2006. exposure to interest rate fluctuations is mitigated by maintaining a laddered portfolio of investment instruments that mature at regular intervals over a three-year investment horizon. at june 24, 2006, our investment portfolio had an expected weighted average return of 3.2% (2.8% at june 25, 2005) and a weighted maturity of 222 days (411 days at june 25, 2005). foreign currency risk we transact business in various non-u.s. currencies, primarily the japanese yen, british pound and the euro. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on accounts receivable from sales in these foreign currencies and the net monetary assets and liabilities of the related foreign subsidiary. we have established risk management strategies designed to reduce the impact of reductions in value and volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in these exchange rates. these strategies reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange movements. we also incur expenses in philippine peso and thailand baht related to our testing facility at those locations. we have not hedged these exposures as of june 24, 2006. currency forward contracts are used to offset the currency risk of non-u.s. dollar-denominated assets and liabilities. changes in fair value of the underlying assets and liabilities are generally offset by the changes in fair value of the related currency forward contract. the net realized and unrealized gains or losses from hedging non-u.s. dollar 68 table of contents denominated assets and liabilities were immaterial in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004. we had forward contracts to sell foreign currencies for $76.6 million and $53.2 million at june 24, 2006 and june 25, 2005, respectively. the fair market value of these forward contracts was $0.5 million and $1.0 million at june 24, 2006 and june 25, 2005, respectively. a hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates compared to rates at june 24, 2006 and june 25, 2005 would not have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations.risk factors 6 risk factors you should carefully consider and evaluate the risk factors described below and those noted in item 1 business of this annual report on form 10-k. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently deemed immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition and operating results. if any of these risks occur, our business could be materially harmed. if our business is harmed, the trading price of our common stock could decline. this annual report on form 10-k contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. risks related to the investigation of our historical stock option practices and the resulting restatement of our prior financial statements as disclosed in our annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended june 24, 2006, our review of our stock option grant practices resulted in the restatement of certain of our past financial statements. in connection with our past option grant practices, we have been subject to a number of ongoing shareholder derivative litigation, unable to file periodic reports to the sec on a timely basis and delisted from the nasdaq global select market (formerly the nasdaq national market). we have also been subject to an informal inquiry by the sec, subject to an investigation by the u.s. attorney for the northern district of california (the u.s. attorney ), subject to an ongoing audit by the internal revenue service, and required to suspend the issuing of shares upon the exercise of all of our outstanding stock options and restricted stock units ( rsus ) and purchases under our employee stock purchase program inasmuch as our form s-8 registration statements for our equity plans are not effective because of our delinquent sec periodic reporting. the informal sec investigation has subsequently been settled without any admission of wrongdoing on the part of the company and without any assessment of penalties and the u.s attorney subsequently informed us that its office does not intend to pursue any further investigation or action against the company concerning our option grant practices. as a result of these events, we have been and remain subject to a number of risks, including the following, each of which could result in a material adverse effect to our business, financial condition and results of operations and/or a negative effect on the market for our stock: (i) the commencement of additional regulatory or governmental investigations relating to our restatement or option grant practices, (ii) private litigation relating to our restatement or option grant practices, including the pending or new stockholder litigation or possible litigation by option holders, (iii) currently unanticipated issues with respect to our restatement or our ability to become current in our periodic sec reports that could materially delay our ability to permit the exercise of 6 table of contents outstanding options and to achieve relisting on nasdaq or another national securities exchange, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the liquidity of our common stock and our ability to recruit and retain employees; (iv) additional significant costs in effectuating on-going or additional remedial actions or in dealing with any further litigation or unanticipated problems in attaining relisting of our shares on nasdaq or another national securities exchange and (v) diversion of the time and attention of members of our management and our board of directors from the management of our business. dependence on new products, packages and process technologies our future success will continue to depend on our ability to introduce new products, select and enter new markets and to develop new packages and process technologies. semiconductor design and package and process technologies are subject to rapid technological change, requiring a high level of expenditures for time consuming research and development. design and package and process development for the portions of the semiconductor market in which we participate are particularly challenging. the success of new product introductions is dependent on several factors, including proper product features, timely product introduction, achievement of acceptable production test times and yields. from time to time, we have not fully achieved our new product introduction and process development goals. there can be no assurance that we will successfully develop or implement new process technologies or that new products will be introduced on a timely basis or receive sufficient market acceptance. it is difficult to predict a schedule for a new product. if a product is not developed on time or does not meet a customer specifications, the development can be a complete failure. additionally, we do not always have the necessary development tools, the number of engineers, product definers or business managers, skill sets or experience required in these areas, which may result in our not meeting our research and development goals. development tools sometimes require licensing and sometimes become obsolete, which can contribute to higher research and development expenses. dependence on new markets and consumer demand our growth is dependent on our continued ability to defend our existing market and penetrate new markets. we have limited experience in new markets and competition is intense. innovation, by its nature, is dependent on applying good judgment to predict future technology trends, often based on little existing data about those new markets. there can be no assurance that the markets we serve will grow (for example, older markets do saturate and decline); that our existing and new products will meet the requirements of such markets; that our products will achieve customer acceptance in such markets; that competitors will not drive prices to an unacceptably low level or take market share from us; or that we can achieve or maintain profitability in these markets. additionally, we have increased the emphasis on highly-integrated products in our product development plans. such products are more vulnerable to time-to-market demands, proper new product definitions with the right set of functionalities, development execution delays and gross margin pressure. delays in product development can significantly reduce return on investment and adversely affect our growth in addition, highly integrated product lives are generally shorter. shorter product lives can result in excess inventory which we would have to write down. such write downs may materially adversely impact our results of operations. furthermore, changes in demand in the market could have a negative impact on certain of our products. such change in demand and resulting restructuring of or changes in our business could lead to the closure or consolidation of facilities. this may result in additional costs which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. industry standard risks many of our products are based on industry standards that are continually evolving. our ability to compete in the future will depend on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with these evolving industry standards. the emergence of new industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major systems manufacturers. as a result, we could be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards or requirements, we could miss opportunities to achieve crucial design wins which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating and financial results. manufacturing risks the fabrication of integrated circuits is a highly complex and precise process. minute impurities, contaminants in the manufacturing environment, difficulties in the fabrication process, defects in the masks used in the wafer manufacturing process, manufacturing equipment failures, wafer breakage, or other factors can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous dice on each wafer to be nonfunctional. we have from time to time experienced reliability problems and lower-than-expected production yields, which have delayed product shipments 7 table of contents and adversely affected gross margins. there can be no assurance that we will not experience a decrease in manufacturing yields or reliability or quality problems that could expose us to liability, product returns and product warranty claims. further, the number of shippable dice per wafer for a given product is critical to our results of operations. to the extent we do not achieve acceptable manufacturing yields or experience delays in wafer fabrication, wafer sort, assembly or final test operations, our results of operations could be adversely affected. during periods of decreased demand, fixed wafer fabrication costs could have an adverse effect on the company financial condition, gross margins, and results of operations. the relatively lengthy manufacturing cycle could result in inventory imbalances. a product or inventory shortage could adversely affect our customer relations, while any excess inventory may ultimately become unsalable. the occurrence of either of such events may adversely affect our financial condition. we manufacture most of our wafer production requirements internally. given the nature of our products, it would be very difficult and costly to arrange for independent manufacturing facilities to supply such products. any prolonged inability to utilize one of our manufacturing facilities as a result of fire, natural disaster, unavailability of electric power or otherwise, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, some of our current manufacturing and test equipment may become excess or obsolete over time due to changes in manufacturing or test processes, technology changes, or changes in demand for our products. should this occur, we would be required to write down such equipment to its salvage value which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. competition we experience intense competition from a number of companies, some of which have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, and marketing resources than us while others have greater technical resources and proprietary intellectual property rights than us. our ability to compete successfully depends on factors both within and outside our control. we may be excluded from our customers product designs because we cannot provide a complete chip set as required by the customer. there can be no assurance that competitive factors will not adversely affect our future business. to the extent that our proprietary products become more successful, competitors will offer second source products or functionally equivalent products for some of those products, which could erode our profit margins. competitors may develop or acquire intellectual property that can control certain portions of the semiconductor market in which we compete. our competitors could use this intellectual property to design products that compete more favorably with our products in terms of performance and pricing. competitors could also use this intellectual property to design products that can be bundled with other products offered by the competitor and thus exclude us from competing on additional products or in other semiconductor markets. additionally, the development or acquisition by competitors of intellectual property could prevent us from using such intellectual property in the product development process or could cause delays in such development. certain of our product offerings are an attractive target for smaller competitors with lower gross and operating margin percentage levels than ours. these companies often target our product offerings with direct or functionally-equivalent second-sources and attempt to take market share at gross and operating margin percentage levels that are improvements to their financial performance but which would be detrimental to our objectives. dependence on independent distributors and sales representatives a portion of our sales is realized through independent electronics distributors that are not under our control. these independent sales organizations generally represent product lines offered by several companies and thus could reduce their sales efforts applied to our products or terminate their representation of us. we generally require foreign distributors to provide a letter of credit to us in an amount equal to the credit limit set for accounts receivable from such foreign distributors. the letter of credit provides for collection on accounts receivable from the foreign distributor should the foreign distributor default on their accounts receivable to us. in limited instances, where credit limits have been established above the amount of the letter of credit, we are exposed for the difference. we do not require letters of credit from any of our domestic distributors and are not protected against accounts receivable default or bankruptcy by these distributors. the inability to collect open accounts receivable could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. termination of a significant distributor, whether at our or the distributor initiative, could be disruptive to our current business. as previously noted, in fiscal year 2008, we selected one of our distributors, avnet, inc., as our primary global distributor and ended our distribution arrangements with arrow electronics. should we not successfully transition end customers currently purchasing product from arrow electronics to purchasing product from avnet or other company franchised distributors, such customers might begin purchasing our competitor products. this, along with the inability to find a suitable replacement should a significant distributor or representative terminate their distributor arrangement with us, could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. additionally, should the intended benefits from selecting avnet as our primary global distributor not materialize, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 8 table of contents dependence on independent foundries, subcontractors, thailand and philippines test and shipping facilities we have an internal capability to fabricate most of our wafers and we remain dependent on outside silicon foundries for a portion of our wafer fabrication. none of the independent foundries currently used by us is affiliated with us. as is typical in the semiconductor industry, from time to time, we have experienced disruptions in the supply of processed wafers from these foundries due to quality problems, unsatisfactory electrical yields, capacity limitations and process obsolescence. procurement from foundries is done by purchase order and contracts. should our orders for purchases of integrated circuits manufactured by these silicon foundries not reflect our customers ultimate demand for related products, we could have either excess inventory or insufficient inventory to satisfy demand. excess inventory would result in an inventory write off that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. too little inventory would prevent us from meeting customer demand and could potentially damage customer relationships and future revenue growth from these customers. we rely on assembly subcontractors located in the philippines, malaysia, thailand, china, singapore, taiwan and south korea to separate wafers into individual integrated circuits and to package them. none of the assembly subcontractors we currently use is affiliated with us. reliability problems experienced by our assemblers or the inability to replace an assembly subcontractor could cause serious problems in delivery and quality resulting in potential product liability to us. such problems could impair our ability to meet our revenue plan in the fiscal period impacted by the disruption. failure to meet the revenue plan may materially adversely impact our results of operations. we perform substantially all of our final testing at our facilities in the philippines and thailand. any prolonged inability to utilize one of our testing facilities as a result of fire, natural disaster, political instability, unavailability of electric power or otherwise, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in fiscal year 2009, we plan to reduce our wafer sort, final test, and shipping operations in all of our domestic-based facilities in order to reduce manufacturing costs. this production will be transferred to our manufacturing facilities located in cavite, the philippines or chonburi province, thailand. products currently produced at our domestic facilities have a high technical content and are more difficult to manufacture than the products currently tested in our offshore facilities. failure to successfully transfer manufacturing of these products to our offshore facilities may result in reduced yields and unsatisfactory quality. failure to successfully transfer this manufacturing to our offshore facilities may adversely affect our ability to supply products to our customers which could materially adversely impact our results of operations. as previously noted, the majority of our finished products currently ship directly from cavite, the philippines or chonburi province, thailand to our customers worldwide or to other maxim locations for sale to end customers or distributors. should there be disruption for any reason to either of our shipping operations in cavite, the philippines or chonburi province, thailand, we might not be able to meet our revenue plan in the fiscal period impacted by the disruption. failure to meet the revenue plan may materially adversely impact our results of operations. we currently expect that in fiscal year 2009 we will need to add additional sort and final test capacity to meet customer demand. in the past, we have generally met increased sort and final test capacity requirements by constructing additional manufacturing space; however, in fiscal year 2009, we also anticipate to enter into outsourcing agreements with major assembly and test subcontractors in asia. failure to expand manufacturing space or negotiate an acceptable contract with a suitable subcontractor could result in increased manufacturing costs. additionally, such failure may result in insufficient internal manufacturing capacity. given the complexity of our wafer sort and final test operations, it may be difficult to transfer production to a third party without suffering yield, quality, or delivery problems. failure of the subcontractor to perform satisfactorily may adversely affect our costs and our ability to supply products to our customers which could materially adversely impact our results of operations. any disruptions in our sort, assembly, test or shipping operations or in the operations of our manufacturing subcontractors, including, but not limited to, the inability or unwillingness of any of our these subcontractors to produce adequate supplies of processed wafers, integrated circuit packages or tested product conforming to our quality standards or their inability to provide timely delivery of products or services required by us, could adversely affect the continuity of product supply as well as damage our reputation, relationship and goodwill with affected customers. this, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. furthermore, finding alternate sources of supply or initiating internal wafer processing for these products may not be economically feasible. 9 table of contents availability and quality of materials, supplies, and subcontract services the semiconductor industry has experienced a very large expansion of fabrication capacity and production worldwide over time. as a result of increasing demand from semiconductor, solar and other manufacturers, availability of certain basic materials and supplies, such as raw wafers and silicon on insulator wafers, chemicals, gases, polysilicon, silicon wafers, ultra-pure metals, lead frames and molding compounds, and of subcontract services, like epitaxial growth, ion implantation and assembly of integrated circuits into packages, has been limited from time to time over the past several years, and could come into short supply again if overall industry demand exceeds the supply of these materials and services in the future. we purchase materials and supplies from many suppliers, some of which are sole-sourced. if the availability of these materials and supplies is interrupted, we may not be able to find suitable replacements. in addition, from time to time natural disasters can lead to a shortage of some of the above materials due to disruption of the manufacturer production. we devote continuous efforts to maintain availability of all required materials, supplies and subcontract services. however, we do not have long-term agreements providing for all of these materials, supplies and services, and shortages could occur as a result of capacity limitations or production constraints on suppliers that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our planned production. a number of our products, including nonvolatile static random access memory products ( srams ), real time clocks, and ibutton products use components such as memory circuits, batteries, pc boards and crystals that are purchased from third parties. we anticipate that, from time to time, supplies of these components may not be sufficient to meet all customer requested delivery dates for products containing the components. as a result of any such shortages, future sales and earnings from products using these components could be adversely affected. additionally, significant fluctuations in the purchase price for these components could affect gross margins for the products involved. suppliers could also discontinue the manufacture of such purchased products or could have quality problems that could affect our ability to meet customer commitments. quality problems experienced by suppliers may be impossible to reproduce or detect in a controlled environment, or may not be detected by our quality control procedures. should undetected quality problems occur, such defects may become part of our finished product ultimately sold to customers. if such defects cause quality control problems in the manufacture of customers end-products or cause direct or indirect damages to either our customers or the ultimate end-user, we may be liable for our customers increased production costs and both direct and indirect damages caused by the defective product. such liability could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, suppliers of semiconductor manufacturing equipment are sometimes unable to deliver test and/or wafer fabrication equipment to a schedule or equipment performance specification that meets our requirements. delays in delivery of equipment could adversely affect our ability to achieve our manufacturing and revenue plans in the future. environmental regulation various foreign and united states federal, state, and local government agencies impose a variety of environmental regulations on the storage, handling, use, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals, gases and other substances used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process. there can be no assurance, however, that interpretation and enforcement of current or future environmental regulations will not impose costly requirements upon us. any failure by us to not adequately control the storage, handling, use, discharge or disposal of regulated substances could result in fines, suspension of production, alteration of wafer fabrication processes and legal liability, which may materially adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. increasing public attention has been focused on the environmental impact of electronic manufacturing operations and waste electronic equipment. while we to date have not experienced any material adverse effects on our business from environmental regulations, there can be no assurance that changes in such regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. possible effects include, but are not limited to, making costly changes to manufacturing, waste discharge or disposal processes and purchasing higher cost equipment or materials. in 2003, the european union ( eu ) adopted mandatory restrictions on the use of certain hazardous substances including, but not limited to, cadmium, lead and mercury. the deadline to comply with these restrictions was july 1, 2006. other countries, including those in asia, have adopted voluntary programs or are considering legislation to restrict or prohibit the use of certain hazardous substances. we also anticipate that more stringent environmental rules and regulations will come in effect in the future. we have transitioned the manufacturing process of most of our products to eliminate the use of these hazardous substances which are currently prohibited. however, some of our products may still contain lead and other prohibited hazardous substances which continue to be sold under certain authorized exemptions. if our products do not meet the eu or our customer restriction on the use of certain hazardous substances or similar restrictions by other countries which may enact such legislation, it would preclude us 10 table of contents from selling products containing these substances to customers in these affected locations, and our customers will find alternate suppliers. this could materially impact our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, we still maintain products in our inventory which contain these substances based on forecasted demand from certain customers. we periodically write off any quantities of such products that are in excess of forecasted demand. should we be unable to sell any such products remaining in our inventory to locations or customers which do not have such restrictions or if customers revise purchase orders to reduce order quantities of products containing lead and other hazardous substances, we would have to write such inventory off as obsolete. this could materially adversely impact our results of operations. in addition to the above, should we ship product with restrictions on the use of certain hazardous substances into countries which prohibit such substances, we may be subject to fines from government authorities and damage claims from customers. such fines and damage claims could materially adversely impact our results of operations. in addition, should we be required to use additional outside subcontractors, due to any environmental restrictions on certain of our products, there can be no guarantee that we would be able to locate an acceptable vendor or successfully transfer the manufacturing of the products containing hazardous substances once an acceptable vendor were located. our inability to locate an acceptable vendor or effectively transfer production could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. protection of proprietary information and intellectual property indemnification we rely upon both know-how and patents to develop and maintain our competitive position. there can be no assurance that others will not develop or patent similar technology, reverse engineer our products or that the confidentiality agreements upon which we rely will be adequate to protect our interests. moreover, the laws of foreign countries generally do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the united states, and we may encounter problems in protecting our proprietary rights in those foreign countries. other companies have obtained patents covering a variety of semiconductor designs and processes, and we might be required to obtain licenses under some of these patents or be precluded from making and selling the infringing products, if these patents are found to be valid. there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain licenses, if required, upon commercially reasonable terms or at all. from time to time, we have received, and in the future may receive, notice of claims of infringement by our products on intellectual property rights of third parties. if one or more of our products or processes were determined to infringe on any such intellectual property rights of a third party, a court might enjoin us from further manufacture and/or sale of the affected products. we would then need to obtain a license from the holders of the rights and/or to re-engineer our products or processes in such a way as to avoid the alleged infringement. in the past, it has been common in the semiconductor industry for patent holders to offer licenses on reasonable terms and rates. although the practice of offering licenses appears to be generally continuing, in some situations, typically where the patent directly relates to a specific product or family of products, patent holders have refused to grant licenses. in any of those cases, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain any necessary license on commercially reasonable terms acceptable to us or at all or that we would be able to re-engineer our products or processes to avoid infringement. an adverse result in litigation arising from such a claim could involve an injunction to prevent the sales of a material portion of our products, the reduction or elimination of the value of related inventories and the assessment of a substantial monetary award for damages related to past sales, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we provide intellectual property indemnification for certain customers, distributors, suppliers and subcontractors for attorney fees and damages and costs awarded against these parties in certain circumstances in which our products are alleged to infringe third party intellectual property rights, including patents, registered trademarks and copyrights. in certain cases, there are limits on and exceptions to our potential liability for indemnification relating to intellectual property infringement claims. we cannot estimate the amount of potential future payments, if any, that we might be required to make as a result of these agreements. to date, we have not been required to pay significant amounts for intellectual property indemnification claims. however, there can be no assurance that we will not have significant financial exposure under those intellectual property indemnification obligations. enterprise resource planning system we currently expect to implement a new enterprise resource planning ( erp ) system as part of our ongoing efforts to improve and strengthen our operational and financial processes and our reporting systems. any difficulties encountered in the implementation or operation of our new erp system or any difficulties in the operation of our current erp system could cause us to fail to meet customer demand for our product or could delay our ability to meet our financial reporting obligations which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our results of operations. 11 table of contents global economic and political conditions our business is increasingly dependent on the global economy. any global events impacting the world economy or specific regions of the world, such as political instability or terrorist activity, could impact economic activity which, in turn, could lead to a contraction of customer demand or a disruption in our operations. in the past, our assembly contractors in malaysia, south korea, thailand and the philippines have been impacted by political disorders, labor disruptions, criminal activities and natural disasters. we have been affected by these problems in the past and none has materially affected our results of operations to date. however, similar problems in the future or not-yet-materialized consequences of past problems, could affect deliveries of our product to our customers, possibly resulting in substantially delayed or lost sales and/or increased expenses. the occurrence of political conflicts or economic crises in countries where our sort, assembly, test, shipping operations and manufacturing subcontractors or distribution channels or customers are located could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. natural disasters we operate our business in worldwide locations. our facilities in california, which include our corporate, research and manufacturing facilities, are in close proximity to known earthquake fault zones. in addition, our locations in southeast asia are susceptible to damage from earthquakes, tsunamis and other natural disasters. in the event of a natural disaster, we may suffer a disruption in our operations which could adversely affect our results of operations. insurance we are primarily self-insured with respect to most of our risks and exposures. based on management assessment and judgment, we have determined that it is generally more cost effective to self-insure these risks. the risks and exposures we self-insure include, but are not limited to, fire, property and casualty, natural disasters, product defects, political risk, general liability, theft, counterfeits, patent infringement, certain employment practice matters and medical benefits for the vast majority of our domestic (united states) employees. we also maintain insurance contracts with independent insurance companies that provide certain of our employees with health (medical and dental) benefits, worker compensation coverage, long-term disability income coverage, life insurance coverage and fiduciary insurance coverage for employee and company funds invested under the employee retirement income and security act. in addition, we maintain officer and director liability coverage and certain property insurance contracts with independent insurance companies. should there be catastrophic loss from events such as fires, explosions or earthquakes or other natural disasters, among many other risks, or adverse court or similar decisions in any area in which we are self-insured, our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be materially adversely affected. product liability we warrant our products to our customers generally for one year from the date of shipment, but in certain cases for longer periods. warranty expense to date has been minimal. in certain cases, which are becoming more commonplace, our product warranty may include significant financial responsibility beyond the cost of replacing the product. in the event that significant warranty claims in excess of historical levels are incurred, our results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability suits in connection with reliability problems which may be experienced by our customers. our products are used by varying industries which include the automotive and medical industries. failure of our products to perform to specifications could lead to substantial damage to both the end product in which our device has been placed and to the user of such end product. if a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and any adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we manufacture and sell products into many global jurisdictions where our efforts to contractually limit liability for certain damages, including consequential, indirect and non-proximately caused damages may not be enforceable or may found by a court to not apply in a particular situation. as we continue to partner with certain customers we may be required to accept increasing exposure for liability including product liability. we believe these relationships with key customers will continue to increase. we continue to attempt to structure our relationships to reduce such liability exposures. additionally, we attempt to mitigate these exposures through our quality assurance developing and maintaining closer working relationships with our critical customers. claims for damages arising in such liability claims could materially impact the company financially. should we choose to not enter such relationships, our revenues and financial operations could be materially affected. 12 table of contents customer supply agreements we enter into contracts with certain customers whereby we commit to supply quantities of specified parts at a predetermined scheduled delivery date. the number of such arrangements continues to increase as this practice becomes more commonplace. should we be unable to supply the customer with the specific part at the quantity and product quality desired on the scheduled delivery date, the customer may incur additional production costs. in addition, the customer may incur lost revenues due to a delay in receiving the parts necessary to have the end-product ready for sale to its customers or due to product quality issues which may arise. under the customer supply agreements, we may be liable for direct additional production costs or lost revenues. if products were not shipped on time or were quality deficient, we may be liable for resulting damages. such liability, should it arise, and/or our inability to meet these commitments to our customers may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and would damage our relationship, reputation and goodwill with the affected customers. vendor managed inventory we enter into arrangements with certain original equipment manufacturers ( oems ) and electronic manufacturing services ( ems ) partners to consign quantities of certain products within close proximity of the oems and ems partners manufacturing location. the inventory is physically segregated at these locations and we retain title and risk of loss related to this inventory until such time as the oem or ems partner pulls the inventory for use in their manufacturing process. once the inventory is pulled by the oem or ems partner, title and risk of loss pass to the customer, at which point we relieve inventory, recognize revenue and the related cost of goods sold. the specific quantities to be consigned are based on a forecast provided by the oem or ems partner. generally, the arrangements with the oems and ems partners provide for transfer of title and risk of loss once product has been consigned for a certain length of time. we believe these arrangements will continue to grow in terms of number of customers and products and will increase in proportion to consolidated net revenues. it is our belief that revenues from such arrangement will eventually become significant to consolidated net revenues. should we be unable or unwilling to enter into such agreements as requested by oems or ems partners, our results of operations may be materially adversely impacted. should we be unable to supply the specific product and quantity needed by the oem or ems partner as reflected in their forecast, we may be liable for damages, including but not limited to, lost revenues and increased production costs which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. should we supply product in excess of the oems or ems partners actual usage, any inventory not consumed may become excess or obsolete which would result in an inventory write off that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. volatility of stock price the market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly. in the future, the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to general economic and market conditions and in response to quarter-to-quarter variations including but not limited to the following our anticipated or actual result of operations; announcements or introductions of new products by us or our competitors; anticipated or actual operating results of our customers, peers or competitors; technological innovations or setbacks by us or our competitors; conditions in our four major markets; the commencement or outcome of litigation or governmental investigations; change in ratings and estimates of our performance by securities analysts; announcements of merger or acquisition transactions; announcement of a transaction in which employees may exchange their under-water stock options for new equity, cash or a combination of new equity or cash; dividend changes; changes in our capital structure, including any decision we make in regard to the repurchase of our common stock; management changes; our inclusion in certain stock indices; our inclusion in a national stock exchange; 13 table of contents our ability to maintain compliance with the sec reporting requirements; and other events or factors beyond our control. the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of many high technology companies, particularly semiconductor companies. in some instances, these fluctuations appear to have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. any such fluctuation could harm the market price of our common stock. taxes a number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and the repatriation of non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. we are subject to taxation in various countries and jurisdictions. significant judgment is required to determine tax liabilities on a worldwide basis. our future tax rates could be affected by various changes in the composition of earnings in countries with different tax rates, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in the tax laws. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods and may materially adversely impact our results from operations. potential tax liabilities under section 409a of the internal revenue code and other tax penalties as a result of our investigation into our historical stock option granting practices, we have determined that a number of our outstanding stock option awards were granted at exercise prices below the fair market value of our stock on the appropriate accounting measurement date. a significant adverse tax consequence is that the re-measured options vesting after december 31, 2004 or options that are materially modified after october 3, 2004 are potentially subject to option holder excise tax under section 409a of the internal revenue code (and, as applicable, similar excise taxes under state law) ( section 409a ). our option holders who hold options which are determined to have been granted with exercise prices below the fair market value of the underlying shares of common stock on the appropriate measurement date would be subject to taxes, penalties and interest under section 409a if no action is taken to cure the options from exposure under section 409a before december 31, 2008. we took action in fiscal year 2008 to cure certain options from exposure under section 409a. there can be no assurance that maxim action cured all potential circumstances in which section 409a would apply. should it be found that excise taxes under section 409a apply to option holders subsequent to our ability to cure the options from exposure to section 409a, and we decide to reimburse our option holders for such taxes, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. also as a result of our investigation into equity awards, we have determined that certain payroll taxes, interest and penalties apply under various sections of the internal revenue code, various state tax statutes, and tax statutes in various foreign jurisdictions. maxim has reviewed these potential liabilities and accrued the estimated probable amounts of such liabilities. there can be no assurance that maxim accruals covered all potential circumstances in which additional payroll taxes, interest and penalties would apply. should it be found that additional payroll taxes, interest and penalties would apply, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. 14 table of contents foreign trade and currency fluctuations we conduct our manufacturing and other operations in various worldwide locations. a portion of operating costs and expenses at foreign locations are paid in local currencies. many of the materials used in our products and much of the manufacturing process for our products are supplied by foreign companies or by our foreign operations, such as our test operations in the philippines and thailand. approximately 77%, 78% and 74% of our net revenues in fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005 were shipped to foreign locations. accordingly, both manufacturing and sales of our products may be adversely affected by political or economic conditions abroad. in addition, various forms of protectionist trade legislation are routinely proposed in the united states and certain foreign countries. a change in current tariff structures or other trade policies could adversely affect our foreign manufacturing or marketing strategies. currency exchange fluctuations could also increase our operating costs and the cost of components manufactured abroad, and the cost of our products to foreign customers or decrease the costs of products from our foreign competitors. we are subject to u.s. customs and export regulations, including u.s. international traffic and arms regulations and similar laws, which collectively control import, export and sale of technologies by u.s. companies. failure to comply with such regulations may result in civil and criminal enforcement, including monetary fines and possible injunctions against shipment of product, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. dependence on key personnel our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our chief executive officer, our other executive officers, and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers and business unit managers, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. the competition for such employees is intense. we believe our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel has not been significantly affected by the consequences of the independent stock option review including, but are not limited to, the inability to allow exercise of employee stock options and restricted stock units, inability to participate in the employee stock purchase plan, delisting of our common stock from trading on nasdaq and unavailability of financial information regarding our financial performance. the loss of the services of one or several of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on us. in addition, there could be a material adverse effect on us should the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increase significantly or should we be unable to continue to attract, motivate and retain qualified personnel. should we lose an engineer who is key to a project completion during the course of a particular project, the project completion may be delayed. this delay could negatively affect customer relationships and goodwill and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we do not maintain any key person life insurance policies on any of our officers or employees. we are planning to offer our employees the opportunity to exchange their stock options which have an exercise price greater than the company stock price ( under-water stock options ) for equity, cash or some combination thereof, subject to all required approvals. if we are unable to complete such an exchange transaction, it may result in the loss of services of key personnel, low morale and decreased productivity. senior management changes; reduced productivity of new hires during fiscal years 2007 and 2008, we experienced significant change in our senior management team and we may continue to experience such changes. our former chief executive officer ( ceo ) and our former chief financial officer ( cfo ) no longer served the company in any capacity after january 2007. they were immediately replaced by mr. doluca, former group president, as the new ceo and member of the board of directors and alan p. hale, vice president of maxim and former chief financial officer of dallas semiconductor (acquired by maxim in fiscal 2001) as interim chief financial officer and principal accounting officer. in addition, a number of other members of the senior management team were promoted to new roles during fiscal year 2007, principally matthew murphy to vice president of worldwide sales and vijay ullal to group president. later, in september 2007, mr. bruce kiddoo joined the company as vice president of finance. following the completion of the company restatement of previously filed financial statements, mr. kiddoo will be appointed chief financial officer and principal accounting officer of the company. for new employees or changes in senior management, there may be reduced levels of productivity as recent additions or hires are trained or otherwise assimilate and adapt to our organization and culture. further, this turnover may also make it difficult to execute on our business plan and achieve our planned financial results. 15 table of contents internal control over financial reporting material weaknesses exist in our internal control over financial reporting related to our not maintaining an effective control environment and, separately, not maintaining effective controls over our stock option practices and the related accounting for stock option transactions, which are discussed in further detail in item 9a controls and procedures. as a result of these material weaknesses, our systems of internal controls failed to timely prevent or detect errors which had a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. there can be no assurance that subsequent to the filing date of this annual report on form 10-k that additional material weaknesses will not be identified which will have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. potential dilutive effect of additional stock issuance we have a significant number of authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available. these shares will provide us with the flexibility to issue our common stock for proper corporate purposes, which may include making acquisitions through the use of stock, adopting additional equity incentive plans and raising equity capital. any issuance of our common stock may result in immediate dilution of our stockholders. anti-takeover provisions our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to authorize the issuance of up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences and privileges and restrictions applicable to such shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. any such issuance might discourage, delay or prevent a hostile change in control of our company. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio, which includes u.s. treasury and federal agency debt securities, and repurchase agreements relating to such securities or money market funds restricted to investment in these instruments. investments mature at frequent intervals during the year, at which time the funds are available for use in the business, or for reinvestment, as cash demands dictate. we place our investments only in high-quality financial instruments, limit the amount invested in any one institution or instrument, and limit portfolio duration. this policy is intended to reduce default risk, market risk and reinvestment risk. we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. the fair value of our investment portfolio would vary by approximately $3 million by a change in market interest rates of 100 basis points as of june 30, 2007. exposure to interest rate fluctuations is mitigated by maintaining a laddered portfolio of investment instruments that mature at regular intervals over a three-year investment horizon. by creating a steady stream of cash from maturing investments, we intend to generate cash to meet business needs without liquidating investments. at june 30, 2007, our investment portfolio had an expected weighted average return of 4.5% (3.2% at june 24, 2006) and a weighted maturity of 137 days (222 days at june 24, 2006). foreign currency risk we transact business in various non-u.s. currencies, primarily the japanese yen, british pound, and the euro. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on accounts receivable from sales in these foreign currencies and the net monetary assets and liabilities of the related foreign subsidiary. we have established risk management strategies designed to reduce the impact of reductions in value and volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in these exchange rates. these strategies reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange movements. we also incur expenses in philippine peso and thailand baht related to our testing facility at those locations. we have not hedged these exposures as of june 30, 2007. 35 table of contents currency forward contracts are used to offset the currency risk of non-u.s. dollar-denominated assets and liabilities. changes in fair value of the underlying assets and liabilities are generally offset by the changes in fair value of the related currency forward contract. the net realized and unrealized gains or losses from hedging non-u.s. dollar denominated assets and liabilities were immaterial in fiscal years 2007, 2006 and 2005. we had forward contracts to sell foreign currencies for $58.8 million and $76.6 million at june 30, 2007 and june 24, 2006, respectively. the fair market value of these forward contracts was zero and $0.5 million at june 30, 2007 and june 24, 2006, respectively. a hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates compared to rates at june 30, 2007 and june 24, 2006 would not have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations.risk factors 7 risk factors you should carefully consider and evaluate the risk factors described below and those noted in item 1 business of this annual report on form 10-k, together with all of the other information included in this annual report on form 10-k. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently deemed immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition and operating results. if any of these risks occur, our business could be materially harmed. if our business is harmed, the trading price of our common stock could decline. this annual report on form 10-k contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. risks related to the investigation of our historical stock option practices and the resulting restatement of our prior financial statements in connection with our past stock option grant practices, we have been subjected to a number of ongoing shareholder lawsuits, unable to file periodic reports to the sec on a timely basis and delisted from the nasdaq global select market (formerly the nasdaq national market). we have also been subject to an informal inquiry by the sec, subject to an investigation by the u.s. attorney for the northern district of california (the u.s. attorney ), subject to an ongoing audit by the internal revenue service, and required to suspend the issuance of shares upon the exercise of all of our outstanding stock options and restricted stock units ( rsus ) and purchases under our employee stock purchase program inasmuch as our form s-8 registration statements for our equity plans are not effective because of our delinquent sec periodic reporting. the informal sec investigation has subsequently been settled without any admission of wrongdoing on the part of the company and without any assessment of penalties and the u.s attorney subsequently informed us that its office does not intend to pursue any further investigation or action against the company concerning our option grant practices. as a result of these events, we have been and remain subject to a number of risks, including the following, each of which could result in a material adverse effect to our business, financial condition and results of operations and/or a negative effect on the market for our stock: (i) the commencement of additional regulatory or governmental investigations relating to our restatement or option grant practices; (ii) private litigation relating to our restatement or option grant practices, including the pending or new stockholder litigation or possible litigation by option holders; (iii) currently unanticipated issues with respect to our restatement or our ability to become current in our periodic sec reports that could materially delay our ability to permit the exercise of outstanding options and rsus and to achieve relisting on nasdaq or another national securities exchange, which would likely have a material adverse effect on the liquidity of our common stock and our ability to recruit and retain employees; (iv) additional significant costs in effectuating on-going or additional remedial actions or in dealing with any further litigation or unanticipated problems in attaining relisting of our shares on nasdaq or another national securities exchange; and (v) diversion of the time and attention of members of our management and our board of directors from the management of our business. 7 table of contents dependence on new products, packages and process technologies our future success will continue to depend on our ability to introduce new products and to develop new packages and process technologies. semiconductor design and package and process technologies are subject to rapid technological change, requiring a high level of expenditures for time consuming research and development. design and package and process development for the portions of the semiconductor market in which we participate are particularly challenging. the success of new product introductions is dependent on several factors, including proper product features, timely product introduction, achievement of acceptable production test times and yields. from time to time, we have not fully achieved our new product introduction and process development goals. there can be no assurance that we will successfully develop or implement new process technologies or that new products will be introduced on a timely basis or receive sufficient market acceptance. it is difficult to predict a schedule for a new product. if a product is not developed on time or does not meet a customer specifications, the development can be a complete failure. additionally, we do not always have the necessary development tools, the number of engineers, product definers or business managers, skill sets or experience required in these areas, which may result in our not meeting our research and development goals. development tools sometimes require licensing and sometimes become obsolete, which can contribute to higher research and development expenses. dependence on new markets and consumer demand our growth is dependent on our continued ability to defend our existing market and penetrate new markets. we have limited experience in new markets and competition is intense. innovation, by its nature, is dependent on applying good judgment to predict future technology trends, often based on little existing data about those new markets. there can be no assurance that the markets we serve will grow (for example, older markets do saturate and decline); that our existing and new products will meet the requirements of such markets; that our products will achieve customer acceptance in such markets; that competitors will not drive prices to an unacceptably low level or take market share from us; or that we can achieve or maintain profitability in these markets. additionally, we have increased the emphasis on highly-integrated products in our product development plans. such products are more vulnerable to time-to-market demands, proper new product definitions with the right set of functionalities, development execution delays and gross margin pressure. delays in product development can significantly reduce return on investment and adversely affect our growth. in addition, highly integrated product lives are generally shorter. shorter product lives can result in excess inventory which we would have to write down. such write downs may materially adversely impact our results of operations. furthermore, changes in demand in the market could have a negative impact on certain of our products. such change in demand and resulting restructuring of or changes in our business could lead to the closure or consolidation of facilities. this may result in additional costs which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. industry standard risks many of our products are based on industry standards that are continually evolving. our ability to compete in the future will depend on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with these evolving industry standards. the emergence of new industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major systems manufacturers. as a result, we could be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards or requirements, we could miss opportunities to achieve crucial design wins which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating and financial results. manufacturing risks the fabrication of integrated circuits is a highly complex and precise process. minute impurities, contaminants in the manufacturing environment, difficulties in the fabrication process, defects in the masks used in the wafer manufacturing process, manufacturing equipment failures, wafer breakage, or other factors can 8 table of contents cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous dice on each wafer to be nonfunctional. we have from time to time experienced reliability problems and lower-than-expected production yields, which have delayed product shipments and adversely affected gross margins. there can be no assurance that we will not experience a decrease in manufacturing yields or reliability or quality problems that could expose us to liability, product returns and product warranty claims. further, the number of shippable dice per wafer for a given product is critical to our results of operations. to the extent we do not achieve acceptable manufacturing yields or experience delays in wafer fabrication, wafer sort, assembly or final test operations, our results of operations could be adversely affected. during periods of decreased demand, fixed wafer fabrication costs could have an adverse effect on the company financial condition, gross margins, and results of operations. the relatively lengthy manufacturing cycle could result in inventory imbalances. a product or inventory shortage could adversely affect our customer relations, while any excess inventory may ultimately become unsalable. the occurrence of either of such events may adversely affect our financial condition. we manufacture most of our wafer production requirements internally. given the nature of our products, it would be very difficult and costly to arrange for independent manufacturing facilities to supply such products. any prolonged inability to utilize one of our manufacturing facilities as a result of fire, natural disaster, unavailability of electric power or otherwise, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, some of our current manufacturing and test equipment may become excess or obsolete over time due to changes in manufacturing or test processes, technology changes, or changes in demand for our products. should this occur, we would be required to write down such equipment to its salvage value which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. competition we experience intense competition from a number of companies, some of which have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, and marketing resources than us while others have greater technical resources and proprietary intellectual property rights than us. our ability to compete successfully depends on factors both within and outside our control. we may be excluded from our customers product designs because we cannot provide a complete chip set as required by the customer. there can be no assurance that competitive factors will not adversely affect our future business. to the extent that our proprietary products become more successful, competitors will offer second source products or functionally equivalent products for some of those products, which could erode our profit margins. competitors may develop or acquire intellectual property that can control certain portions of the semiconductor market in which we compete. our competitors could use this intellectual property to design products that compete more favorably with our products in terms of performance and pricing. competitors could also use this intellectual property to design products that can be bundled with other products offered by the competitor and thus exclude us from competing on additional products or in other semiconductor markets. additionally, the development or acquisition by competitors of intellectual property could prevent us from using such intellectual property in the product development process or could cause delays in such development. certain of our product offerings are an attractive target for smaller competitors with lower gross and operating margin percentage levels than ours. these companies often target our product offerings with direct or functionally-equivalent second-sources and attempt to take market share at gross and operating margin percentage levels that are improvements to their financial performance but which would be detrimental to our objectives. dependence on independent distributors and sales representatives a portion of our sales is realized through independent electronics distributors that are not under our control. these independent sales organizations generally represent product lines offered by several companies and thus could reduce their sales efforts applied to our products or terminate their representation of us. we generally 9 table of contents require foreign distributors to provide a letter of credit to us in an amount equal to the credit limit set for accounts receivable from such foreign distributors. the letter of credit provides for collection on accounts receivable from the foreign distributor should the foreign distributor default on their accounts receivable to us. in limited instances, where credit limits have been established above the amount of the letter of credit, we are exposed for the difference. we do not require letters of credit from any of our domestic distributors and are not protected against accounts receivable default or bankruptcy by these distributors. the inability to collect open accounts receivable could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. termination of a significant distributor, whether at our or the distributor initiative, could be disruptive to our current business. as previously noted, in fiscal year 2008, we selected one of our distributors, avnet, inc., as our primary global distributor and ended our distribution arrangements with arrow electronics. should we not successfully transition end customers currently purchasing product from arrow electronics to purchasing product from avnet or other company franchised distributors, such customers might begin purchasing our competitor products. this, along with the inability to find a suitable replacement should a significant distributor or representative terminate their distributor arrangement with us, could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. additionally, should the intended benefits from selecting avnet as our primary global distributor not materialize, our results of operations could be adversely affected. dependence on independent foundries, subcontractors, thailand and philippines test and shipping facilities we have an internal capability to fabricate most of our wafers and we remain dependent on outside silicon foundries for a portion of our wafer fabrication. none of the independent foundries currently used by us is affiliated with us. as is typical in the semiconductor industry, from time to time, we have experienced disruptions in the supply of processed wafers from these foundries due to quality problems, unsatisfactory electrical yields, capacity limitations and process obsolescence. procurement from foundries is done by purchase order and contracts. should our orders for purchases of integrated circuits manufactured by these silicon foundries not reflect our customers ultimate demand for related products, we could have either excess inventory or insufficient inventory to satisfy demand. excess inventory would result in an inventory write off that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. too little inventory would prevent us from meeting customer demand and could potentially damage customer relationships and future revenue growth from these customers. we rely on assembly subcontractors located in the philippines, malaysia, thailand, china, singapore, taiwan and south korea to separate wafers into individual integrated circuits and to package them. none of the assembly subcontractors we currently use is affiliated with us. reliability problems experienced by our assemblers or the inability to replace an assembly subcontractor could cause serious problems in delivery and quality resulting in potential product liability to us. such problems could impair our ability to meet our revenue plan in the fiscal period impacted by the disruption. failure to meet the revenue plan may materially adversely impact our results of operations. we perform substantially all of our final testing at our facilities in the philippines and thailand. any prolonged inability to utilize one of our testing facilities as a result of fire, natural disaster, political instability, unavailability of electric power or otherwise, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. in fiscal year 2009, we plan to reduce our wafer sort, final test, and shipping operations in all of our domestic-based facilities in order to reduce manufacturing costs. this production will be transferred to our manufacturing facilities located in cavite, the philippines or chonburi province, thailand. products currently produced at our domestic facilities have a high technical content and are more difficult to manufacture than the products currently tested in our offshore facilities. failure to successfully transfer manufacturing of these products to our offshore facilities may result in reduced yields and unsatisfactory quality. failure to successfully transfer this manufacturing to our offshore facilities may adversely affect our ability to supply products to our customers which could materially adversely impact our results of operations. 10 table of contents as previously noted, the majority of our finished products currently ship directly from cavite, the philippines or chonburi province, thailand to our customers worldwide or to other maxim locations for sale to end customers or distributors. should there be disruption for any reason to either of our shipping operations in cavite, the philippines or chonburi province, thailand, we might not be able to meet our revenue plan in the fiscal period impacted by the disruption. failure to meet the revenue plan may materially adversely impact our results of operations. we currently expect that in fiscal year 2009 we will need to add additional sort and final test capacity to meet customer demand. in the past, we have generally met increased sort and final test capacity requirements by constructing additional manufacturing space; however, in fiscal year 2009, we also anticipate to enter into outsourcing agreements with major assembly and test subcontractors in asia. failure to expand manufacturing space or negotiate an acceptable contract with a suitable subcontractor could result in increased manufacturing costs. additionally, such failure may result in insufficient internal manufacturing capacity. given the complexity of our wafer sort and final test operations, it may be difficult to transfer production to a third party without suffering yield, quality, or delivery problems. failure of the subcontractor to perform satisfactorily may adversely affect our costs and our ability to supply products to our customers which could materially adversely impact our results of operations. any disruptions in our sort, assembly, test or shipping operations or in the operations of our manufacturing subcontractors, including, but not limited to, the inability or unwillingness of any of our these subcontractors to produce adequate supplies of processed wafers, integrated circuit packages or tested product conforming to our quality standards or their inability to provide timely delivery of products or services required by us, could adversely affect the continuity of product supply as well as damage our reputation, relationship and goodwill with affected customers. this, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. furthermore, finding alternate sources of supply or initiating internal wafer processing for these products may not be economically feasible. availability and quality of materials, supplies, and subcontract services the semiconductor industry has experienced a very large expansion of fabrication capacity and production worldwide over time. as a result of increasing demand from semiconductor, solar and other manufacturers, availability of certain basic materials and supplies, such as raw wafers and silicon on insulator wafers, chemicals, gases, polysilicon, silicon wafers, ultra-pure metals, lead frames and molding compounds, and of subcontract services, like epitaxial growth, ion implantation and assembly of integrated circuits into packages, has been limited from time to time over the past several years, and could come into short supply again if overall industry demand exceeds the supply of these materials and services in the future. we purchase materials and supplies from many suppliers, some of which are sole-sourced. if the availability of these materials and supplies is interrupted, we may not be able to find suitable replacements. in addition, from time to time natural disasters can lead to a shortage of some of the above materials due to disruption of the manufacturer production. we devote continuous efforts to maintain availability of all required materials, supplies and subcontract services. however, we do not have long-term agreements providing for all of these materials, supplies and services, and shortages could occur as a result of capacity limitations or production constraints on suppliers that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our planned production. a number of our products, including nonvolatile static random access memory products ( srams ), real time clocks, and ibutton products use components such as memory circuits, batteries, pc boards and crystals that are purchased from third parties. we anticipate that, from time to time, supplies of these components may not be sufficient to meet all customer requested delivery dates for products containing the components. as a result of any such shortages, future sales and earnings from products using these components could be adversely affected. additionally, significant fluctuations in the purchase price for these components could affect gross 11 table of contents margins for the products involved. suppliers could also discontinue the manufacture of such purchased products or could have quality problems that could affect our ability to meet customer commitments. quality problems experienced by suppliers may be impossible to reproduce or detect in a controlled environment, or may not be detected by our quality control procedures. should undetected quality problems occur, such defects may become part of our finished product ultimately sold to customers. if such defects cause quality control problems in the manufacture of customers end-products or cause direct or indirect damages to either our customers or the ultimate end-user, we may be liable for our customers increased production costs and both direct and indirect damages caused by the defective product. such liability could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. in addition, suppliers of semiconductor manufacturing equipment are sometimes unable to deliver test and/or wafer fabrication equipment to a schedule or equipment performance specification that meets our requirements. delays in delivery of equipment could adversely affect our ability to achieve our manufacturing and revenue plans in the future. environmental regulation various foreign and united states federal, state, and local government agencies impose a variety of environmental regulations on the storage, handling, use, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals, gases and other substances used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process. there can be no assurance, however, that interpretation and enforcement of current or future environmental regulations will not impose costly requirements upon us. any failure by us to not adequately control the storage, handling, use, discharge or disposal of regulated substances could result in fines, suspension of production, alteration of wafer fabrication processes and legal liability, which may materially adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. increasing public attention has been focused on the environmental impact of electronic manufacturing operations and waste electronic equipment. while we to date have not experienced any material adverse effects on our business from environmental regulations, there can be no assurance that changes in such regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. possible effects include, but are not limited to, making costly changes to manufacturing, waste discharge or disposal processes and purchasing higher cost equipment or materials. in 2003, the european union ( eu ) adopted mandatory restrictions on the use of certain hazardous substances including, but not limited to, cadmium, lead and mercury. the deadline to comply with these restrictions was july 1, 2006. other countries, including those in asia, have adopted voluntary programs or are considering legislation to restrict or prohibit the use of certain hazardous substances. we also anticipate that more stringent environmental rules and regulations will come in effect in the future. we have transitioned the manufacturing process of most of our products to eliminate the use of these hazardous substances which are currently prohibited. however, some of our products may still contain lead and other prohibited hazardous substances which continue to be sold under certain authorized exemptions. if our products do not meet the eu or our customer restriction on the use of certain hazardous substances or similar restrictions by other countries which may enact such legislation, it would preclude us from selling products containing these substances to customers in these affected locations, and our customers will find alternate suppliers. this could materially impact our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, we still maintain products in our inventory which contain these substances based on forecasted demand from certain customers. we periodically write off any quantities of such products that are in excess of forecasted demand. should we be unable to sell any such products remaining in our inventory to locations or customers which do not have such restrictions or if customers revise purchase orders to reduce order quantities of products containing lead and other hazardous substances, we would have to write such inventory off as obsolete. this could materially adversely impact our results of operations. in addition to the above, should we ship product with restrictions on the use of certain hazardous 12 table of contents substances into countries which prohibit such substances, we may be subject to fines from government authorities and damage claims from customers. such fines and damage claims could materially adversely impact our results of operations. in addition, should we be required to use additional outside subcontractors, due to any environmental restrictions on certain of our products, there can be no guarantee that we would be able to locate an acceptable vendor or successfully transfer the manufacturing of the products containing hazardous substances once an acceptable vendor were located. our inability to locate an acceptable vendor or effectively transfer production could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. protection of proprietary information and intellectual property indemnification we rely upon both know-how and patents to develop and maintain our competitive position. there can be no assurance that others will not develop or patent similar technology, reverse engineer our products or that the confidentiality agreements upon which we rely will be adequate to protect our interests. moreover, the laws of foreign countries generally do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the united states, and we may encounter problems in protecting our proprietary rights in those foreign countries. other companies have obtained patents covering a variety of semiconductor designs and processes, and we might be required to obtain licenses under some of these patents or be precluded from making and selling the infringing products, if these patents are found to be valid. there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain licenses, if required, upon commercially reasonable terms or at all. from time to time, we have received, and in the future may receive, notice of claims of infringement by our products on intellectual property rights of third parties. if one or more of our products or processes were determined to infringe on any such intellectual property rights of a third party, a court might enjoin us from further manufacture and/or sale of the affected products. we would then need to obtain a license from the holders of the rights and/or to re-engineer our products or processes in such a way as to avoid the alleged infringement. in the past, it has been common in the semiconductor industry for patent holders to offer licenses on reasonable terms and rates. although the practice of offering licenses appears to be generally continuing, in some situations, typically where the patent directly relates to a specific product or family of products, patent holders have refused to grant licenses. in any of those cases, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain any necessary license on commercially reasonable terms acceptable to us or at all or that we would be able to re-engineer our products or processes to avoid infringement. an adverse result in litigation arising from such a claim could involve an injunction to prevent the sales of a material portion of our products, the reduction or elimination of the value of related inventories and the assessment of a substantial monetary award for damages related to past sales, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we provide intellectual property indemnification for certain customers, distributors, suppliers and subcontractors for attorney fees and damages and costs awarded against these parties in certain circumstances in which our products are alleged to infringe third party intellectual property rights, including patents, registered trademarks and copyrights. in certain cases, there are limits on and exceptions to our potential liability for indemnification relating to intellectual property infringement claims. we cannot estimate the amount of potential future payments, if any, that we might be required to make as a result of these agreements. to date, we have not been required to pay significant amounts for intellectual property indemnification claims. however, there can be no assurance that we will not have significant financial exposure under those intellectual property indemnification obligations. enterprise resource planning system we currently expect to implement a new enterprise resource planning ( erp ) system as part of our ongoing efforts to improve and strengthen our operational and financial processes and our reporting systems. any difficulties encountered in the implementation or operation of our new erp system or any difficulties in the 13 table of contents operation of our current erp system could cause us to fail to meet customer demand for our product or could delay our ability to meet our financial reporting obligations which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our results of operations. global economic and political conditions our business is increasingly dependent on the global economy. any global events impacting the world economy or specific regions of the world, such as political instability or terrorist activity, could impact economic activity which, in turn, could lead to a contraction of customer demand or a disruption in our operations. in the past, our assembly contractors in malaysia, south korea, thailand and the philippines have been impacted by political disorders, labor disruptions, criminal activities and natural disasters. we have been affected by these problems in the past and none has materially affected our results of operations to date. however, similar problems in the future or not-yet-materialized consequences of past problems, could affect deliveries of our product to our customers, possibly resulting in substantially delayed or lost sales and/or increased expenses. the occurrence of political conflicts or economic crises in countries where our sort, assembly, test, shipping operations and manufacturing subcontractors or distribution channels or customers are located could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. natural disasters we operate our business in worldwide locations. our facilities in california, which include our corporate, research and manufacturing facilities, are in close proximity to known earthquake fault zones. in addition, our locations in southeast asia are susceptible to damage from earthquakes, tsunamis and other natural disasters. in the event of a natural disaster, we may suffer a disruption in our operations which could adversely affect our results of operations. insurance we are primarily self-insured with respect to most of our risks and exposures. based on management assessment and judgment, we have determined that it is generally more cost effective to self-insure these risks. the risks and exposures we self-insure include, but are not limited to, fire, property and casualty, natural disasters, product defects, political risk, general liability, theft, counterfeits, patent infringement, certain employment practice matters and medical benefits for the vast majority of our domestic (united states) employees. we also maintain insurance contracts with independent insurance companies that provide certain of our employees with health (medical and dental) benefits, worker compensation coverage, long-term disability income coverage, life insurance coverage and fiduciary insurance coverage for employee and company funds invested under the employee retirement income and security act. in addition, we maintain officer and director liability coverage and certain property insurance contracts with independent insurance companies. should there be catastrophic loss from events such as fires, explosions or earthquakes or other natural disasters, among many other risks, or adverse court or similar decisions in any area in which we are self-insured, our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be materially adversely affected. product liability we warrant our products to our customers generally for one year from the date of shipment, but in certain cases for longer periods. warranty expense to date has been minimal. in certain cases, which are becoming more commonplace, our product warranty may include significant financial responsibility beyond the cost of replacing the product. in the event that significant warranty claims in excess of historical levels are incurred, our results of operations could be materially adversely impacted. we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability suits in connection with reliability problems which may be experienced by our customers. our products are used by varying industries which include the automotive 14 table of contents and medical industries. failure of our products to perform to specifications could lead to substantial damage to both the end product in which our device has been placed and to the user of such end product. if a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and any adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we manufacture and sell products into many global jurisdictions where our efforts to contractually limit liability for certain damages, including consequential, indirect and non-proximately caused damages may not be enforceable or may found by a court to not apply in a particular situation. as we continue to partner with certain customers we may be required to accept increasing exposure for liability including product liability. we believe these relationships with key customers will continue to increase. we continue to attempt to structure our relationships to reduce such liability exposures. additionally, we attempt to mitigate these exposures through our quality assurance developing and maintaining closer working relationships with our critical customers. claims for damages arising in such liability claims could materially impact the company financially. should we choose to not enter such relationships, our revenues and financial operations could be materially affected. customer supply agreements we enter into contracts with certain customers whereby we commit to supply quantities of specified parts at a predetermined scheduled delivery date. the number of such arrangements continues to increase as this practice becomes more commonplace. should we be unable to supply the customer with the specific part at the quantity and product quality desired on the scheduled delivery date, the customer may incur additional production costs. in addition, the customer may incur lost revenues due to a delay in receiving the parts necessary to have the end-product ready for sale to its customers or due to product quality issues which may arise. under the customer supply agreements, we may be liable for direct additional production costs or lost revenues. if products were not shipped on time or were quality deficient, we may be liable for resulting damages. such liability, should it arise, and/or our inability to meet these commitments to our customers may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and would damage our relationship, reputation and goodwill with the affected customers. vendor managed inventory we enter into arrangements with certain original equipment manufacturers ( oems ) and electronic manufacturing services ( ems ) partners to consign quantities of certain products within close proximity of the oems and ems partners manufacturing location. the inventory is physically segregated at these locations and we retain title and risk of loss related to this inventory until such time as the oem or ems partner pulls the inventory for use in their manufacturing process. once the inventory is pulled by the oem or ems partner, title and risk of loss pass to the customer, at which point we relieve inventory, recognize revenue and the related cost of goods sold. the specific quantities to be consigned are based on a forecast provided by the oem or ems partner. generally, the arrangements with the oems and ems partners provide for transfer of title and risk of loss once product has been consigned for a certain length of time. we believe these arrangements will continue to grow in terms of number of customers and products and will increase in proportion to consolidated net revenues. it is our belief that revenues from such arrangement will eventually become significant to consolidated net revenues. should we be unable or unwilling to enter into such agreements as requested by oems or ems partners, our results of operations may be materially adversely impacted. should we be unable to supply the specific product and quantity needed by the oem or ems partner as reflected in their forecast, we may be liable for damages, including but not limited to, lost revenues and increased production costs which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. should we supply product in excess of the oems or ems partners actual usage, any inventory not consumed may become excess or obsolete which would result in an inventory write off that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. 15 table of contents volatility of stock price the market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly. in the future, the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to general economic and market conditions and in response to quarter-to-quarter variations including but not limited to the following: our anticipated or actual result of operations; announcements or introductions of new products by us or our competitors; anticipated or actual operating results of our customers, peers or competitors; technological innovations or setbacks by us or our competitors; conditions in our four major markets; the commencement or outcome of litigation or governmental investigations; change in ratings and estimates of our performance by securities analysts; announcements of merger or acquisition transactions; announcement of a transaction in which employees may exchange their under-water stock options for new equity, cash or a combination of new equity or cash; dividend changes; changes in our capital structure, including any decision we make in regard to the repurchase of our common stock; management changes; our inclusion in certain stock indices; our inclusion in a national stock exchange; our ability to maintain compliance with the sec reporting requirements; and other events or factors beyond our control. the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of many high technology companies, particularly semiconductor companies. in some instances, these fluctuations appear to have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. any such fluctuation could harm the market price of our common stock. taxes a number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation; 16 table of contents changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and the repatriation of non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. we are subject to taxation in various countries and jurisdictions. significant judgment is required to determine tax liabilities on a worldwide basis. our future tax rates could be affected by various changes in the composition of earnings in countries with different tax rates, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in the tax laws. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods and may materially adversely impact our results from operations. potential income tax liabilities under section 409a of the internal revenue code and other tax penalties as a result of our investigation into our historical stock option granting practices, we have determined that a number of our outstanding stock option awards were granted at exercise prices below the fair market value of our stock on the appropriate accounting measurement date. the primary adverse tax consequence is that the re-measured options vesting after december 31, 2004, or options that are materially modified after october 3, 2004, are potentially subject to option holder excise tax under section 409a of the internal revenue code (and, as applicable, similar excise taxes under state law or foreign law). option holders who hold options which are determined to have been granted with exercise prices below the fair market value of the underlying shares of common stock on the appropriate measurement date would be subject to taxes, penalties and interest under section 409a if no action is taken to cure the options from exposure under section 409a before december 31, 2008. we took action in fiscal year 2008 to cure certain options from exposure under section 409a. there can be no assurance that such action cured all potential circumstances in which section 409a would apply. should it be found that excise taxes under section 409a apply to option holders subsequent to our ability to cure the options from exposure to section 409a, and we decide to reimburse option holders for such taxes, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. also as a result of our investigation into equity awards, we have determined that certain payroll taxes, interest and penalties apply under various sections of the internal revenue code, various state tax statutes, and tax statutes in various foreign jurisdictions. maxim has reviewed these potential liabilities and accrued the estimated probable of amount of the liability. there can be no assurance that maxim accruals covered all potential circumstances in which additional payroll taxes, interest and penalties would apply. should it be found that additional payroll taxes, interest and penalties would apply, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. foreign trade and currency fluctuations we conduct our manufacturing and other operations in various worldwide locations. a portion of operating costs and expenses at foreign locations are paid in local currencies. many of the materials used in our products and much of the manufacturing process for our products are supplied by foreign companies or by our foreign operations, such as our test operations in the philippines and thailand. approximately 80%, 77% and 78% of our net revenues in fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006 were shipped to foreign locations. accordingly, both manufacturing and sales of our products may be adversely affected by political or economic conditions abroad. in addition, various forms of protectionist trade legislation are routinely proposed in the united states and certain foreign countries. a change in current tariff structures or other trade policies could adversely affect our foreign manufacturing or marketing strategies. currency exchange fluctuations could also increase our operating costs and the cost of components manufactured abroad, and the cost of our products to foreign customers or decrease the costs of products from our foreign competitors. we are subject to u.s. customs and export regulations, including u.s. international traffic and arms regulations and similar laws, which collectively control import, export and sale of technologies by u.s. 17 table of contents companies. failure to comply with such regulations may result in civil and criminal enforcement, including monetary fines and possible injunctions against shipment of product, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. dependence on key personnel our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our chief executive officer, our other executive officers, and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers and business unit managers, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. the competition for such employees is intense. we believe our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel has not been significantly affected by the consequences of the independent stock option review including, but are not limited to, the inability to allow exercise of employee stock options and restricted stock units, inability to participate in the employee stock purchase plan, delisting of our common stock from trading on nasdaq and unavailability of financial information regarding our financial performance. the loss of the services of one or several of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on us. in addition, there could be a material adverse effect on us should the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increase significantly or should we be unable to continue to attract, motivate and retain qualified personnel. should we lose an engineer who is key to a project completion during the course of a particular project, the project completion may be delayed. this delay could negatively affect customer relationships and goodwill and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we do not maintain any key person life insurance policies on any of our officers or employees. we are planning to offer our employees the opportunity to exchange their stock options which have an exercise price greater than the company stock price ( under-water stock options ) for equity, cash or some combination thereof, subject to all required approvals. if we are unable to complete such an exchange transaction, it may result in the loss of services of key personnel, low morale and decreased productivity. senior management changes; reduced productivity of new hires during fiscal years 2007 and 2008, we experienced significant change in our senior management team and we may continue to experience such changes. our former chief executive officer ( ceo ) and our former chief financial officer ( cfo ) no longer served the company in any capacity after january 2007. they were immediately replaced by mr. doluca, former group president, as the new ceo and member of the board of directors and alan p. hale, vice president of maxim and former chief financial officer of dallas semiconductor (acquired by maxim in fiscal 2001) as interim chief financial officer and principal accounting officer. in addition, a number of other members of the senior management team were promoted to new roles during fiscal year 2007, principally matthew murphy to vice president of worldwide sales and vijay ullal to group president. later, in september 2007, mr. bruce kiddoo joined the company as vice president of finance. following the completion of the company restatement of previously filed financial statements, mr. kiddoo will be appointed chief financial officer and principal accounting officer of the company. for new employees or changes in senior management, there may be reduced levels of productivity as recent additions or hires are trained or otherwise assimilate and adapt to our organization and culture. further, this turnover may also make it difficult to execute on our business plan and achieve our planned financial results. internal controls over financial reporting material weaknesses existed in our internal controls over financial reporting related to our not maintaining an effective control environment and, separately, not maintaining effective controls over our stock option practices and the related accounting for stock option transactions, which are discussed in further detail in 18 table of contents item 9a controls and procedures. as a result of these material weaknesses, our systems of internal controls failed to timely prevent or detect errors which had a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. there can be no assurance that subsequent to the filing date of this annual report on form 10-k that additional material weaknesses will not be identified which will have a material adverse effect on our financial statements. potential dilutive effect of additional stock issuance we have a significant number of authorized but unissued shares of our common stock available. these shares will provide us with the flexibility to issue our common stock for proper corporate purposes, which may include making acquisitions through the use of stock, adopting additional equity incentive plans and raising equity capital. any issuance of our common stock may result in immediate dilution of our stockholders. anti-takeover provisions our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to authorize the issuance of up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences and privileges and restrictions applicable to such shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. any such issuance might discourage, delay or prevent a hostile change in control of our company. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk our exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to our investment portfolio, which includes u.s. treasury and federal agency debt securities, and repurchase agreements relating to such securities. we limit portfolio duration. this investment policy is intended to reduce default risk, market risk and reinvestment risk. we do not use derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. the fair value of our investment portfolio would vary by approximately $3.0 million by a change in market interest rates of 100 basis points as of june 28, 2008. exposure to interest rate fluctuations is mitigated by maintaining a laddered portfolio of investment instruments that mature at regular intervals over a three-year investment horizon. by creating a steady stream of cash from maturing investments, we intend to generate cash to meet business needs without liquidating investments. at june 28, 2008, our investment portfolio had an expected weighted average return of 2.7% (4.5% at june 30, 2007) and a weighted maturity of 532 days (137 days at june 30, 2007). in addition at june 28, 2008, maxim maintains a significant portfolio of money market investments, which are included in cash. these funds are restricted to money market funds which invest in u.s. treasury and federal agency debt securities, and repurchase agreements relating to such securities. these money market funds are all available on a daily basis. foreign currency risk we transact business in various non-u.s. currencies, primarily the japanese yen, british pound, and the euro. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on accounts receivable from sales in these foreign currencies and the net monetary assets and liabilities of the related foreign subsidiary. we have established risk management strategies designed to reduce the impact of reductions in value and volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in these exchange rates. these strategies reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange movements. we also incur expenses in philippine peso and thailand baht related to our testing facility at those locations, but we have not hedged these exposures as of june 28, 2008. currency forward contracts are used to offset the currency risk of non-u.s. dollar-denominated assets and liabilities. changes in fair value of the underlying assets and liabilities are generally offset by the changes in fair value of the related currency forward contract. the net realized and unrealized gains or losses from hedging non-u.s. dollar denominated assets and liabilities were immaterial in fiscal years 2008, 2007 and 2006. we had forward contracts to sell foreign currencies for $46.9 million and $58.8 million at june 28, 2008 and june 30, 2007, respectively. the fair market value of these forward contracts was $(0.8) million and $0.5 million at june 28, 2008 and june 30, 2007, respectively. a hypothetical 10% favorable or unfavorable change in foreign currency exchange rates compared to rates at june 28, 2008 and june 30, 2007 would not have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 26 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk the company exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to the company investment portfolio, which includes primarily u.s. treasury and federal agency debt securities. investments mature at frequent intervals during the year, at which time the funds are available for use in the business, or for reinvestment, as cash demands dictate. the company places its investments only in high-quality financial instruments, limits the amount invested in any one institution or instrument, and limits portfolio duration. this policy is intended to reduce default risk, market risk, and reinvestment risk. the company does not use derivative financial instruments in its investment portfolio. the fair value of the company investment portfolio and related interest income would vary by approximately $12 million by a change in market interest rates of 100 basis points, due to the primarily short-term nature of the company investment portfolio. at june 28, 2003, the company investment portfolio had an expected weighted average return of 1.5% (2.8% at june 29, 2002) and a weighted maturity of 440 days (147 days at june 29, 2002). foreign currency risk the company transacts business in various non-u.s. currencies, primarily the japanese yen, british pound, and the euro. the company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on accounts receivable from sales in these foreign currencies and the net monetary assets and liabilities of the related foreign subsidiary. the company has established risk management strategies designed to protect against reductions in value and volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in exchange rates. these strategies reduce, but do not always entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange movements. currency forward contracts are used to offset the currency risk of non-u.s. dollar-denominated assets and liabilities. changes in fair value of the underlying assets and liabilities are generally offset by the changes in fair value of the related currency forward contract. the net realized and unrealized gains or losses from hedging non-u.s. dollar denominated assets and liabilities were immaterial in fiscal year 2003. the company had forward contracts to buy and sell foreign currencies with a u.s. dollar equivalent of $60.5 million at june 28, 2003. the fair value of these contracts, which generally have maturities of less than 6 months, at june 28, 2003 was $60.9 million. 26quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 25risk factors 9 risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. please also see the introductory section of this annual report on form 10-k entitled "forward-looking statements" for additional discussion regarding forward-looking statements. if any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. cyclicality in the semiconductor industry may adversely affect our results of operations the semiconductor industry historically has been cyclical and subject to significant and often rapid increases and decreases in demand for products and services. these changes could have adverse effects on our results of operations and on the market price of our common stock. the results of our operations may be adversely affected in the future if demand for our products and services decreases or if we are unable to meet an increase in demand without significantly increasing the lead-time for the delivery of our products and services. incorrect forecasts, reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products could adversely affect our results or operations as is customary in the semiconductor industry, customer orders may be canceled in most cases without penalty to the customers. some customers place orders that require us to manufacture products and have available for shipment, even though the customer may be unwilling to make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the products. in other cases, we manufacture product base d on forecasts of customer demands. as a result, we may incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales and are subject to the risk of cancellations of orders, potentially leading to an initial inflation of backlog followed by a sharp reduction. in addition, our backlog includes orders from domestic distributors for which revenues are not recognized until the ordered products are sold by the distributors. when combined with the risks of order cancellation, our backlog cannot be used as a measure of future revenue. furthermore, orders or forecasts may be for products that meet the customer's unique requirements so that those cancelled or unrealized orders would, in addition, result in an inventory of unsaleable products, causing potential inventory write-offs. as a result of lengthy manufacturing cycles for certain of the products, the amount of unsaleable products could be substantial. as a result, incorrect forecasts, or reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products 9 could adversely affect our operating results. our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions the current economic environment could subject us to increased credit risk should customers be unable to pay us, or delay paying us, for previously purchased products. accordingly, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. in addition, weakness in the market for end users of our products could harm the cash flow of our distributors and resellers who could then delay paying their obligations to us or experience other financial difficulties. this would further increase our credit risk exposure and, potentially, cause delays in our recognition of revenue on sales to these customers. if global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the united states or other key markets, deteriorate, we may experience material adverse effects on our business, operating results, and financial condition we may encounter difficulties in operating a newly implemented enterprise resource planning system, which may adversely affect our operations and financial reporting we implemented a new enterprise r esource planning (&ldquo;erp&rdquo;) system in the second quarter of fiscal year 2010 as part of our ongoing efforts to improve and strengthen our operational and financial processes and our reporting systems. any difficulties in the operation of our current erp system could cause us to fail to meet customer demand for our product or could delay our ability to meet our financial reporting obligations which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our results of operations. political conditions could materially affect our revenues and results of operations we are subject to the political and legal risks inherent in international operations. exposure to political instabilities, different business policies and legal standards could impact economic activity, which in turn, could lead to a contraction of customer demand or a disruption in our operations. we have been affected by these problems in the past, but none have materially affected our results of operations to date. problems in the future or not-yet-materialized consequences of past problems, could affect deliveries of our product to our customers, possibly resulting in substantially delayed or lost sales and/or increased expenses that could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which could adversely impact our common stock price we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. our operating results have in the past, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly fluctuations as a result of numerous factors, some of which may contribute to more pronounced fluctuations in an uncertain global economic environment. these factors include, but are not limited to, the following: &bull; fluctuations in demand for our products and services, in part due to changes in general economic conditions and specific economic conditions in the semiconductor industry; &bull; reduced visibility into our customers' spending plans and associated revenue; &bull; the level of price and product competition in our product markets; &bull; the impact of the current uncertain economic and credit environment on our customers, channel partners, and suppliers, including their ability to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures; &bull; the overall movement toward industry consolidations among our customers and competitors; &bull; market acceptance of new products and product enhancements; &bull; announcements and introductions of new products by us or our competitors; &bull; deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements (introduced by us or our competitors); &bull; our ability to meet increases in customer orders in a timely manner; &bull; our ability to develop, introduce, and market new products and enhancements in a timely manner; and &bull; our levels of operating expenses. our products may fail to meet new industry standards or requirements and the efforts to meet such industry standards or requirements could be costly many of ou r products are based on industry standards that are continually evolving. our ability to compete in the future will depend on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with these evolving industry standards. the emergence of new industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major systems manufacturers. as a result, we could 10 be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards or requirements, we could miss opportunities to achieve crucial design wins which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial results. our manufacturing operations may be interrupted or suffer yield problems given the nature of our products, it would be very time consuming, difficult, and costly to a rrange for new manufacturing facilities to supply such products. any prolonged inability to utilize one of our manufacturing facilities or a third party foundry, due to damages resulting from fire, natural disaster, or unavailability of electric power, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. the manufacture and design of integrated circuits is highly complex. we may experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields or experience product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, capacity constraints, equipment malfunctioning, construction delays, upgrading or expanding existing facilities or changing our process technologies, any of which could result in a loss of future rev enues or increases in fixed costs. to the extent we do not achieve acceptable manufacturing yields or there are delays in wafer fabrication, our results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, operating expenses related to increases in production capacity may adversely affect our operating results if revenues do not increase proportionately. any difficulties encountered in connection with our restructured international sales operation may adversely affect our results of operations and financial results during our fiscal year 2010, we restructured and concentrated our international sales operations into ireland. any difficulties encountered in the transition to or conduct of such restructured international sales operation may adversely affect our international sales efforts. any such difficulties could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial results. our independent distributors and sales representatives may terminate their relationship with us or fail to make payments on outstanding accounts receivable to us, which would affect our financial results a portion of our sales is realized through independent electronics distributors that are not under our control. these independent sales organizations generally represent product lines offered by several companies and thus could reduce their sales efforts applied to our products or terminate their representation of us. we generally require foreign distributors to provide a letter of credit to us in an amount equal to the credit limit set for accounts receivable from such foreign distributors. the letter of credit provides for collection on accounts receivable from the foreign distributor should the foreign distributor default on their accounts receivable to us. where credit limits have been established above the amount of the letter of credit, we are exposed for the difference. we do not require letters of credit from any of our domestic distributors and are not protected again st accounts receivable default or bankruptcy by these distributors. the inability to collect open accounts receivable could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. termination of a significant distributor, whether at our or the distributor's initiative, could be disruptive to our current business. our operating results may be adversely affected by increasing competition we experience intense competition from a number of companies, some of which have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, and marketing resources than us while others have greater technical resources and proprietary intellectual property rights than us. the principal elements of competition include product performance, functional value, quality and reliability, technical service and support, price, diversity of product line and delivery capabilities. we believe we compete favorably with respect to these factors, although we may be at a disadvantage in comparison to larger companies with broader product lines and greater technical service and support capabilities. we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors or that our operating results will not be adversely affected by increased competition. our dependence on assembly and test subcontractors may cause delays beyond our control in delivering products to our customers we rely on assembly and csp packaging subcontractors located in various parts of the world to separate wafers into individual integrated circuits and to package them. none of the assembly subcontractors we currently use are affiliated with us. reliability problems experienced by our assemblers or the inability to replace an assembly subcontractor could cause serious problems in delivery and quality resulting in potential product liability to us. such problems could impair our ability to meet our revenue plan 11 in the fiscal period impacted by the disruption. failure to meet the revenue plan may materially adversely impact our results of operations. (for more information on subcontractor locations, please see item 1. business - manufacturing) any disruptions in our sort, assembly, test or shipping operations or in the operations of our manufacturing subcontractors, including, but not limited to, the inability or unwillingness of any of our subcontractors to produce adequate supplies of processed wafers, integrated circuit packages or tested product conforming to our quality standards or their inability to provide timely delivery of products or services required by us, could adversely affect the continuity of product supply as well as damage our reputation, relationship and goodwill with customers. this, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. furthermore, finding alternate sources of supply or initiating internal wafer processing for these products may not be economically feasible. shortage of raw materials or supply disruption of such raw materials could harm our business the semiconductor industry has experienced a very large expansion of fabrication capacity and production worldwide over time. as a result of increasing demand from semiconductor, solar and other manufacturers, availability of certain basic materials and supplies, such as raw wafers and silicon on insulator wafers, chemicals, gases, polysilicon, silicon wafers, ultra-pure metals, lead frames and molding compounds, and of subcontract services, like epitaxial growth, ion implantation and assembly of integrated circuits into packages, has been limited from time to time over the past several years, and could come in to short supply again if overall industry demand exceeds the supply of these materials and services in the future. we purchase materials and supplies from many suppliers, some of which are sole-sourced. if the availability of these materials and supplies is interrupted, we may not be able to find suitable replacements. in addition, from time to time natural disasters can lead to a shortage of some of the above materials due to disruption of the manufacturer's production. we devote continuous efforts to maintain availability of all required materials, supplies and subcontract services. however, we do not have long-term agreements providing for all of these materials, supplies and services, and shortages could occur as a result of capacity limitations or productio n constraints on suppliers that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our production requirements. environmental liabilities could force us to expend significant capital and incur substantial costs various foreign and united states federal, state, and local government agencies impose a variety of environmental regulations on the storage, handling, use, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals, gases and other substances used or produced in the semiconductor manufa cturing process. there can be no assurance, however, that interpretation and enforcement of current or future environmental regulations will not impose costly requirements upon us. any failure by us to not adequately control the storage, handling, use, discharge or disposal of regulated substances could result in fines, suspension of production, alteration of wafer fabrication processes and legal liability, which may materially adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. we may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may impact our ability to compete effectively &nbsp ; we rely upon know-how, trade secrets, and patents to develop and maintain our competitive position. there can be no assurance that others will not develop or patent similar technology, reverse engineer our products or that the confidentiality agreements upon which we rely will be adequate to protect our interests. moreover, the laws of foreign countries generally do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the united states, and we may encounter problems in protecting our proprietary rights in those foreign countries. other companies have obtained patents covering a variety of semiconductor designs and processes, and we might be required to obtain licenses under some of these patents or be precluded from making and selling the infringing products, if these patents are found to be valid. there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain licenses, if required, upo n commercially reasonable terms or at all. from time to time, we have received, and in the future may receive, notice of claims of infringement by our products on intellectual property rights of third parties. if one or more of our products or processes were determined to infringe on any such intellectual property rights of a third party, a court might enjoin us from further manufacture and/or sale of the affected products. we would then need to obtain a license from the holders of the rights and/or to re-engineer our products or processes in such a way as to avoid the alleged infringement. in the past, it has been common in the semiconductor industry for patent holders to offer licenses on reasonable terms and rates. although the practice of offering licenses appear to be generally continuing, in some situations, typically where the patent directly relates to a specific product or family of products, patent holders have refused to grant licenses. in any of those cases, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain any necessary license on commercially reasonable terms acceptable to us, if at all, or that we would be able to re-engineer our products or processes to avoid infringement. an adverse result in litigation arising from such a claim could involve an injunction to prevent the sales of a material portion of our products, 12 &nb sp; the reduction or elimination of the value of related inventories and the assessment of a substantial monetary award for damages related to past sales, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we may experience losses related to intellectual property indemnity claims we provide intellectual property indemnification for certain customers, distributors, suppliers and subcontractors for attorney fees and damages and costs awarded against these parties in certain circumstances in which our products are alleged to infringe third party intellectual property rights, including patents, registered trademarks and copyrights. in certain cases, there are limits on and exceptions to our potential liability for indemnification relating to intellectual property infringement claims. we cannot estimate the amount of potential future payments, if any, that we might be required to make as a result of these agreements. to date, we have not been required to pay significant amounts for intellectual property indemnification claims. however, there can be no assurance that we will not have significant financial exposure under those intellectual property indemnification obligations. we are a party to a purported class action securities litigation arising out of our past stock option granting practices the outcome of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows a purported class action securities lawsuit is pending against the company, its former chief executive officer (now deceased), its former chief financial officer, and its former treasurer, in connection with the company's past stock option grant practices. although the u.s. district court for the northern district of california has preliminarily approved a proposed settlement of this laws uit pursuant to which the company paid $173 million into an escrow account, the settlement is still subject to a final hearing. in the event the court does not approve the proposed settlement, the eventual outcome of the lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows for a particular period as well as the trading price for our securities. litigation is also time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to our normal business operations, and outcomes are difficult to predict. the defense of this lawsuit has resulted and will continue to result in significant legal expenditures and diversion of our management's time and attention from business operations. for further discussion on legal matters see " legal proceedings " in part i, item 3 of this annual report on form 10-k. business interruptions from natural disasters could harm our business we operate our business in worldwide locations. some of our facilities and those of our subcontractors are located in geologically unstable areas of the world and are susceptible to damage from natural disasters. in the event of a natural disaster, we may suffer a disruption in our operations which could adversely affect our results of operations. our financial condition, operations and liquidity may be materially adversely affected in the event of a catastrophic loss for which we are self-insured we are primarily self-insured with respect to many of our commercial risks and exposures. based on management's assessment and judgment, we have determined that it is generally more cost effective to self-insure these risks. the risks and exposures we self-insure include, but are not limited to, fire, property and casualty, natural disasters, product defects, political risk, general liability, theft, counterfeits, patent infringement, certain employment practice matters and medical benefits for many of our domestic (united states) employees. we also maintain insurance contracts with independent insurance companies that provide certain of our employees with health (medical and dental) benefits, worker's compensation coverage, long-term disability income coverage, life insurance coverage and fiduciary insurance coverage for employee and company funds invested under the employee retirement income and security act. in addition, we maintain officer and director liability coverage and certain property insurance contracts with independent insurance companies. should there be catastrophic loss from events such as fires, explosions or earthquakes or other natural disasters, among many other risks, or adverse court or similar decisions in any area in which we are self-insured, our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be materially adversely affected. limitations in manufacturing capacity or delays in lead-time for delivery of products could adversely affect our future growth opportunities and results of operations our ability to successfully realize revenue growth relative to any future increase in customer demands for our products could be limited by our manufacturing capacity and other supply constraints. our results of operations may be adversely affected if we fail to meet such increase in demand for our products without significantly increasing the lead-time required for our delivery of such products. during the past two quarters we have not had the manufacturing capacity to meet customer demand and we anticipate 13 that we will continue to lack such capacity for the foreseeable future. in addition, any significant increase in the lead-time for delivery of products may negatively affect our customer relationships, reputation as a dependable supplier of products and ability to obtain future design wins, while potentially increasing order cancellations, aged, unsaleable or otherwise unrealized backlog that no longer could serve as an indicator of future revenue, and the likelihood of our breach of supply agreement terms. any one of the foregoing factors could negatively affect our future revenue growth and results of operations. we are subject to warranty claims and product liability we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability suits in connection with reliability problems which may be experienced by our customers. our products are used by varying industries which include the transportation and medical industries. failure of our products to perform to specifications could lead to substantial damage to both the end product in which our device has been placed and to the user of such end product. if a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and any adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we manufacture and sell products into many global jurisdictions where our efforts to contractually limit liability for certain damages, including consequential, indirect and non-proximately caused damages may not be enforceable or may be found by a court to not apply in a particular situation. as we continue to partner with certain customers we may be required to accept increasing exposure for liability including product liability. we believe these relationships with key customers will continue to increase. we continue to attempt to structure our customer relationships to reduce such liability exposures. damages for such liability claims could materially adversely impact the company financially. should we choose to not enter into such relationships, our revenues and financial operations could be materially adversely affecte d. we may be liable for additional production costs and lost revenues to certain customers with whom we have entered into customer supply agreements, if we are unable to provide a specific part at a certain quantity and product quality we enter into contracts with certain customers whereby we commit to supply quantities of specified parts at a predetermined scheduled delivery date. the number of such arrangements continues to increase as this practice becomes more commonplace. should we be u nable to supply the customer with the specific part at the quantity and product quality desired on the scheduled delivery date, the customer may incur additional production costs. in addition, the customer may incur lost revenues due to a delay in receiving the parts necessary to have the end-product ready for sale to its customers or due to product quality issues which may arise. under the customer supply agreements, we may be liable for direct additional production costs or lost revenues. if products were not shipped on time or were quality deficient, we may be liable for penalties and resulting damages. such liability, should it arise, and/or our inability to meet these commitments to our customers may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could damage our relationship, reputation and goodwill with the affected customers. we may pursue acquisitions and investments that could harm our operating results and may disrupt our business we have made and will continue to consider making strategic business investments, alliances and acquisitions we consider necessary to gain access to key technologies that we believe will augment our existing technical capability and support our business model objectives. acquisitions, alliances and investments involve risks and uncertainties that may unfavorably impact our future financial performance. if integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisi tion or suffer other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee. we must implement our technology systems in the acquired operations and effectively integrate the different cultures of acquired business organizations into our own. we may also need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability from acquired businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of acquisitions. in addition, because acquisitions of high technology companies are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not adversely af fect our business, operating results, or financial condition. if we fail to enter into future vendor managed inventory arrangements or fail to supply the specific product or quantity under such arrangements, the results of our operations and financial condition may be materially adversely impacted we enter into arrangements with certain original equipment manufacturers ("oems") and electronic manufacturing services ("ems") partners to consign quantities of certain products within close proxi mity of the oems and ems partners' manufacturing location. the inventory is physically segregated at these locations and we retain title and risk of loss related to this inventory until such time as the oem or ems partner pulls the inventory for use in their manufacturing process. once the inventory is pulled by the oem or ems partner, title and risk of loss pass to the customer, at which point we relieve inventory, recognize revenue and 14 the related cost of goods sold. the specific quantities to be consigned are based on a forecast provided by the oem or ems partner. generally, the arrangements with the oems and ems partners provide for transfer of title and risk of loss once product has been consigned for a certain length of time. we believe these arrangements will continue to grow in terms of number of customers and products and will increase in proportion to consolidated net revenues. it is our belief that revenues from such arrangement will eventually become significant to consolidated net revenues. should we be unable or unwilling to enter into such agreements as requested by oems or ems partners, our results of operations may be materially adversely impacted. should we be unab le to supply the specific product and quantity needed by the oem or ems partner as reflected in their forecast, we may be liable for damages, including but not limited to, lost revenues and increased production costs which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. should we supply product in excess of the oems or ems partners actual usage, any inventory not consumed may become excess or obsolete which would result in an inventory write off that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. our stock price may be volatile the market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly. in the future, the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to general economic and market conditions and in response to quarter-to-quarter variations including but not limited to the following: &bull; our anticipated or actual res ult of operations; &bull; announcements or introductions of new products by us or our competitors; &bull; anticipated or actual operating results of our customers, peers or competitors; &bull; technological innovations or setbacks by us or our competitors; &bull; conditions in our four major markets; &bull; the commencement or outcome of litigation or governmental investigations; &bull; change in ratings and estimates of our performance by securities analysts; &bull; announcements of merger or acquisition transactions; &bull; dividend changes; &bull; changes in our capital structure, including any decision we make in regard to the repurchase of our common stock; &bull; management changes; &bull; supply constraints; &bull; semiconductor industry cyclicality; &bull; our inclusion in certain stock indices, &bull; our ability to maintain compliance with the sec reporting requirements; and &bull; other events or factors beyond our co ntrol. the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of many high technology companies, particularly semiconductor companies. in some instances, these fluctuations appear to have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. any such fluctuation could harm the market price of our common stock. our ability to service our debt obligations, including $300 million of senior unsecured notes, requires sufficient cash flow from our future operations in june 2010, the company issued $300 million in senior , unsecured debt due in 2013 with an effective interest rate of 3.49%. interest is payable semi-annually on december 14 and june 14. the debt indenture includes covenants that limit the company's ability to grant liens on its facilities and to enter into sale and leaseback transactions, which could limit the company's ability to secure debt funding in the future, if needed. in circumstances involving a change of control of the company followed by a downgrade of the rating of the company's notes, the company wou ld be required to make an offer to repurchase these notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. the company's ability to repurchase the notes in such events may be limited by the company's then-available financial resources or by the terms of other agreements to which the company is a party. although the company currently has the funds necessary to retire this debt, funds might not be available to repay the notes when they come due in the future. if the company fails to pay interest when due, or to repay the notes when due or materially breaches other loan covenants, it would constitute an event of default under the indenture governing the notes which, in turn, may also constitute an event of defaul t under other obligations of the company. any event of default under the indenture or other obligations of the company and any additional obligations and restrictions imposed as a result thereof could negatively impact our financial results. 15 our financial results may be adversely affected by increased tax rates and exposure to additional tax liabilities a number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including: &bull; the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; &bull; recent changes in our global structure that involve an increased investment in technology outside of the united states to better align asset ownership and business functions with revenues and profits; &bull; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; &bull; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; &bull; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; &bull; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; &bull; changes in available tax credits; &bull; changes in share-based compensation; &bull; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and &bull; the repatriation of non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. we are subject to taxation in various countries and jurisdictions. significant judgment is required to determine tax liabilities on a worldwide basis. our future tax rates could be affected by various changes in the composition of earnings in countries with different tax rates, changes in our global structure, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in the tax laws. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. potential income tax liabilities under section 409a of the internal revenue code and other payroll taxes in the past, a number of our outstanding stock option awards were granted at exercise prices below the fair market value of our stock on the appropriate accounting measurement date. many of these options are potentially subject to option holder excise tax under section 409a of the internal revenue code (and, as applicable, similar excise taxes under state law or foreign law). in fiscal year 2008, we took action to cure certain options from exposure under section 409a. however, there can be no assurance that su ch action cured all potential circumstances in which section 409a would apply. should it be determined that excise taxes under section 409a were to apply and we decide to reimburse option holders for such taxes, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. also we have determined that certain payroll taxes, interest and penalties may apply under various sections of the internal revenue code, various state tax statutes, and tax statutes in various foreign jurisdictions. maxim has reviewed these potential liabilities and accrued the estimated probable amount of the liability. there can be no assurance that our accruals covered all potential circumstances in which additional payroll taxes, interest and penalties would apply. should it be found that additional payroll taxes, interest and penalties would apply, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. we may be materially adversely affected by currency fluctuations or changes in trade policies we conduct our manufacturing and other operations in various worldwide locations. a portion of operating costs and expenses at foreign locations are paid in local currencies. many of the materials used in our products and much of the manufacturing process for our products are supplied by foreign companies or by our foreign operations, such as our test operations in the philippines and thailand. approximately 85% , 82% and 81% of our net revenues in fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, were shipped to foreign locations. accordingly, both manufacturing and sales of our products may be adversely affected by political or economic conditions abroad. in addition, various forms of protectionist trade legislation are routinely proposed in the united states and certain foreign countries. a change in current tariff structures or other trade policies could adversely affect our foreign manufacturing or marketing strategies. currency exchange fluctuations could also decrease revenue and increase our operating costs and the cost of components manufactured abroad, and the cost of our products to foreign customers or decrea se the costs of products from our foreign competitors. we are subject to u.s. customs and export regulations we are subject to u.s. customs and export regulations, including u.s. international traffic and arms regulations and similar laws, which collectively control import, export and sale of technologies by u.s. companies. failure to comply with such regulations may result in civil and criminal enforcement, including monetary fines and possible injunctions against shipment of product, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. 16 if we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business may be harmed our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our chief executive officer, our other executive officers, and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers and business unit managers, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. the loss of the services of one or several of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on us. in addition, there could be a material adverse effect on us should the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increase significantly or should we be unable to continue to attract, motivate and retain qualified personnel. should we lose an engineer who is key to a project's completion during the course of a particular pr oject, the project's completion may be delayed. this delay could negatively affect customer relationships and goodwill and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our certificate of incorporation contains certain anti-takeover provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a hostile change in control of our company our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to authorize the issuance of up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determin e the rights, preferences and privileges and restrictions applicable to such shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. any such issuance might discourage, delay or prevent a hostile change in control of our company. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 34 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk the company's exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to the company's cash and cash equivalents and the 3.45% fixed rate senior unsecured notes issued in june 2010 (see note 19: long-term debt). the company does not use derivative financial instruments to hedge the risk of interest rate volatility. at june 26, 2010 , the company maintained a significant portfolio of money market fund investments, which are included in cash and cash equivalents. these money market funds are all available on a daily basis. debt risk in june 2010, the company issued $300 million in senior, unsecured debt due in 2013 with an effective interest rate of 3.49% (see note 19: long-term debt). the debt indenture includes covenants that limit the company's ability to grant liens on its facilities and to enter into sale and leaseback transactions, which could limit the company's ability to secure debt funding in the future, if needed. in circumstances involving a change of control of the company followed by a downgrade of the rating of the company's notes, the company would be required to make an offer to repurchase these notes at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. the company's ability to repurchase the notes in such events may be limited by the company's then-available financial resources or by the terms of other agreements to which the company is a party. although the company cu rrently has the funds necessary to retire this debt, funds might not be available to repay the notes when they come due in the future. if the company fails to pay interest when due, or to repay the notes when due or materially breaches other loan covenants, it would constitute an event of default under the indenture governing the notes which, in turn, may also constitute an event of default under other obligations of the company. any event of default under the indenture or other obligations of the company and any additional obligations and restrictions imposed as a result thereof could negatively impact our financial results. foreign currency risk the company generates revenues in various global markets based on orders obtained in non-u.s. currencies, primarily the japanese yen, the british pound and the euro. maxim incurs expenditures denominated in non-us currencies, principally philippine pesos and thailand baht associated with the company's manufacturing activities in the philippines and thailand, respectively. maxim is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates primarily on orders and accounts receivable from sales in these foreign currencies and cash flows for expenditures in the foreign currencies. maxim has established risk management strate gies designed to reduce the impact of reductions in value and volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in the exchange rates for these currencies. these strategies reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange movements. maxim does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. the company routinely hedges its exposures to certain foreign currencies with various financial institutions in an effort to minimize the impact of certain currency exchange rate fluctuations. if a financial counter-party to any of the company's hedging arrangement experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of the foreign currency hedge, the company may experience financial losses. for derivative instruments that are designated and quality as cash flow hedges under asc no. 815, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. gains and losses on the derivative representing either hedge ineffectiveness or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in current earnings. for derivative instruments that are not designated as hedging instruments under asc no. 815, gains and losses are recognized in interest income and other, net. all derivatives are foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain foreign currency denominated a ssets or liabilities. the gains and losses on these derivatives are largely offset by the changes in the fair value of the assets or liabilities being hedged. 34 foreign exchange contracts the net unrealized gain or loss, if any, is potentially subject to market and credit risk as it represents appreciation (decline) of the hedge position against the spot exchange rates. the net realized and unrealized gains or losses from hedging foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities were immaterial during the year ended june 26, 2010 and june 27, 2009 .risk factors 9 risk factors the following risk factors and other information included in this annual report on form 10-k should be carefully considered. the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. please also see the introductory section of this annual report on form 10-k entitled "forward-looking statements" for additional discussion regarding forward-looking statements. if any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors actually occurs, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. cyclicality in the semiconductor industry may adversely affect our results of operations the semiconductor industry historically has been cyclical and subject to significant and often rapid increases and decreases in demand for products and services. these changes could have adverse effects on our results of operations and on the market price of our common stock. the results of our operations may be adversely affected in the future if demand for our products and services decreases or if we are unable to meet an increase in demand without significantly increasing the lead-time for the delivery of our products and services. incorrect forecasts, reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products could adversely affect our results of operations as is customary in the semiconductor industry, customer orders may be canceled in most cases without penalty to the customers. some customers place orders that require us to manufacture products and have available for shipment, even though the customer may be unwilling to make a binding commitment to purchase all, or even any, of the products. in other cases, we manufacture product based on forecasts of customer demands. as a result, we may incur inventory and manufacturing costs in advance of anticipated sales and are subject to the risk of cancellations of orders, potentially leading to an initial inflation of backlog followed by a sharp reduction. in addition, our backlog includes orders from domestic distributors for which revenues are not recognized until the ordered products are sold by the distributors. when combined with the risks of order cancellation, our backlog cannot be used as a measure of future revenue. furthermore, orders or forecasts may be for products that meet the customer's unique requirements so that those canceled or unrealized orders would, in addition, result in an inventory of unsaleable products, causing potential inventory write-offs. as a result of lengthy manufacturing cycles for certain of the products, the amount of unsaleable products could be substantial. as a result, incorrect forecasts, reductions, cancellations or delays in orders for our products could adversely affect our operating results. our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions the economic environment could subject us to increased credit risk should customers be unable to pay us, or delay paying us, for previously purchased products. accordingly, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. in addition, weakness in the market for end users of our products could harm the cash flow of our distributors and resellers who could then delay paying their obligations to us or experience other financial difficulties. this would further increase our credit risk exposure and, potentially, cause delays in our recognition of revenue on sales to these customers. if global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the united states or other key markets, deteriorate, we may experience material adverse effects on our business, operating results, and financial condition political conditions could materially affect our revenues and results of operations we are subject to the political and legal risks inherent in international operations. exposure to political instabilities, different business policies and varying legal standards could impact economic activity, which in turn, could lead to a contraction of customer demand or a disruption in our operations. we have been affected by these problems in the past, but none have materially affected our results of operations to date. problems in the future or not-yet-materialized consequences of past problems, could affect deliveries of our product to our customers, possibly resulting in substantially delayed or lost sales and/or increased expenses that could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which could adversely impact our common stock price we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indicators of future performance. our operating results have in the past, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly fluctuations as a result of numerous factors, some of which may contribute to more pronounced fluctuations in an uncertain global economic environment. these factors include, but are not limited to, the following: 9 fluctuations in demand for our products and services, in part due to changes in general economic conditions and specific economic conditions in the semiconductor industry; reduced visibility into our customers' spending plans and associated revenue; the level of price and product competition in our product markets; the impact of the uncertain economic and credit environment on our customers, channel partners, and suppliers, including their ability to obtain financing or to fund capital expenditures; the overall movement toward industry consolidations among our customers and competitors; market acceptance of new products and product enhancements; announcements and introductions of new products by us or our competitors; deferrals of customer orders in anticipation of new products or product enhancements (introduced by us or our competitors); our ability to meet increases in customer orders in a timely manner; our ability to develop, introduce, and market new products and enhancements in a timely manner; and our levels of operating expenses. our products may fail to meet new industry standards or requirements and the efforts to meet such industry standards or requirements could be costly many of our products are based on industry standards that are continually evolving. our ability to compete in the future will depend on our ability to identify and ensure compliance with these evolving industry standards. the emergence of new industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major systems manufacturers. as a result, we could be required to invest significant time and effort and to incur significant expense to redesign our products to ensure compliance with relevant standards. if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards or requirements, we could miss opportunities to achieve crucial design wins which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial results. we may encounter difficulties in the implementation of a new manufacturing execution system, which may adversely affect our operations and financial reporting we are in the process of implementing a new manufacturing execution system ( mes ) in our testing facilities that is scheduled to be completed by the end of fiscal year 2013 as part of our ongoing efforts to improve the quality and productivity of our operations. any difficulties in the implementation or operation of the mes system could increase the cost to test our products or disrupt the testing of our products which, in turn, could materially adversely affect our results of operation and financial reporting. our manufacturing operations may be interrupted or suffer yield problems given the nature of our products, it would be very time consuming, difficult, and costly to arrange for new manufacturing facilities to supply such products. any prolonged inability to utilize one of our manufacturing facilities or a third party foundry, due to damages resulting from fire, natural disaster, unavailability of electric power, or labor unrest would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. the manufacture and design of integrated circuits is highly complex. we may experience manufacturing problems in achieving acceptable yields or experience product delivery delays in the future as a result of, among other things, capacity constraints, equipment malfunctioning, construction delays, upgrading or expanding existing facilities or changing our process technologies, any of which could result in a loss of future revenues or increases in fixed costs. to the extent we do not achieve acceptable manufacturing yields or there are delays in wafer fabrication, our results of operations could be adversely affected. in addition, operating expenses related to increases in production capacity may adversely affect our operating results if revenues do not increase proportionately. our independent distributors and sales representatives may terminate their relationship with us or fail to make payments on outstanding accounts receivable to us, which would adversely affect our financial results a portion of our sales is realized through independent electronics distributors that are not under our control. these independent sales organizations generally represent product lines offered by several companies and thus could reduce their sales efforts applied to our products or terminate their representation of us. we require certain foreign distributors to provide a letter of credit to us in 10 an amount equal to the credit limit set for accounts receivable from such foreign distributors. the letter of credit provides for collection on accounts receivable from the foreign distributor should the foreign distributor default on their accounts receivable to us. where credit limits have been established above the amount of the letter of credit, we are exposed for the difference. we do not require letters of credit from any of our domestic distributors and are not protected against accounts receivable default or bankruptcy by these distributors. the inability to collect open accounts receivable could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. termination of a significant distributor, whether at our or the distributor's initiative, could be disruptive to our current business. our operating results may be adversely affected by increased competition we experience intense competition from a number of companies, some of which have significantly greater financial, manufacturing, and marketing resources than us, as well as greater technical resources and proprietary intellectual property rights than us. the principal elements of competition include product performance, functional value, quality and reliability, technical service and support, price, diversity of product line and delivery capabilities. we believe we compete favorably with respect to these factors, although we may be at a disadvantage in comparison to larger companies with broader product lines and greater technical service and support capabilities. we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or new competitors or that our operating results will not be adversely affected by increased competition. our dependence on subcontractors for assembly, test, freight, and logistic services and certain manufacturing services may cause delays beyond our control in delivering products to our customers we rely on subcontractors located in various parts of the world for assembly and csp packaging services, freight and logistic services, and, to a lesser extent, wafer fabrication and test services. none of the subcontractors we currently use are affiliated with us. reliability problems experienced by our subcontractors or the inability to replace any subcontractor could cause serious problems in delivery and quality resulting in potential product liability to us. such problems could impair our ability to meet our revenue plan in the fiscal period impacted by the disruption. failure to meet the revenue plan may materially adversely impact our results of operations. (for more information on subcontractor locations, please see item 1. business - manufacturing) any disruptions in our sort, assembly, test, freight and logistic operations or in the operations of our subcontractors, including, but not limited to, the inability or unwillingness of any of our subcontractors to produce adequate supplies of processed wafers, integrated circuit packages or tested product conforming to our quality standards or their inability to provide timely delivery of products or services required by us, could adversely affect the continuity of product supply as well as damage our reputation, relationship and goodwill with customers. this, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. furthermore, finding alternate sources of supply or initiating internal wafer processing for these products may not be economically feasible. shortage of raw materials or supply disruption of such raw materials could harm our business the semiconductor industry has experienced a very large expansion of fabrication capacity and production worldwide over time. as a result of increasing demand from semiconductor, solar and other manufacturers, availability of certain basic materials and supplies, such as raw wafers and silicon on insulator wafers, chemicals, gases, polysilicon, silicon wafers, ultra-pure metals, lead frames and molding compounds, and of subcontract services, like epitaxial growth, ion implantation and assembly of integrated circuits into packages, has been limited from time to time over the past several years, and could come into short supply again if overall industry demand exceeds the supply of these materials and services in the future. we purchase materials and supplies from many suppliers, some of which are sole-sourced. if the availability of these materials and supplies is interrupted, we may not be able to find suitable replacements. in addition, from time to time natural disasters can lead to a shortage of some of the above materials due to disruption of the manufacturer's production. we devote continuous efforts to maintain availability of all required materials, supplies and subcontract services. however, we do not have long-term agreements providing for all of these materials, supplies and services, and shortages could occur as a result of capacity limitations or production constraints on suppliers that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to achieve our production requirements. environmental liabilities could force us to expend significant capital and incur substantial costs various foreign and united states federal, state, and local government agencies impose a variety of environmental regulations on the storage, handling, use, discharge and disposal of certain chemicals, gases and other substances used or produced in the semiconductor manufacturing process. compliance with these regulations has not had a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, earnings, competitive or financial position. there can be no assurance, however, that interpretation and enforcement 11 of current or future environmental regulations will not impose costly requirements upon us. any failure by us to not adequately control the storage, handling, use, discharge or disposal of regulated substances could result in fines, suspension of production, alteration of wafer fabrication processes and legal liability, which may materially adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. we may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may impact our ability to compete effectively we rely upon know-how, trade secrets, and patents to develop and maintain our competitive position. there can be no assurance that others will not develop or patent similar technology, reverse engineer our products or that the confidentiality agreements upon which we rely will be adequate to protect our interests. moreover, the laws of some foreign countries generally do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the united states, and we may encounter problems in protecting our proprietary rights in those foreign countries. other companies have obtained patents covering a variety of semiconductor designs and processes, and we might be required to obtain licenses under some of these patents or be precluded from making and selling the infringing products, if these patents are found to be valid. there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain licenses, if required, upon commercially reasonable terms or at all. from time to time, we have received, and in the future may receive, notice of claims of infringement by our products on intellectual property rights of third parties. if one or more of our products or processes were determined to infringe on any such intellectual property rights of a third party, a court might enjoin us from further manufacture and/or sale of the affected products. we would then need to obtain a license from the holders of the rights and/or to re-engineer our products or processes in such a way as to avoid the alleged infringement. in the past, it has been common in the semiconductor industry for patent holders to offer licenses on reasonable terms and rates. although the practice of offering licenses appears to be generally continuing, in some situations, typically where the patent directly relates to a specific product or family of products, patent holders have refused to grant licenses. in any of those cases, there can be no assurance that we would be able to obtain any necessary license on commercially reasonable terms acceptable to us, if at all, or that we would be able to re-engineer our products or processes in a cost effective manner to avoid infringement. an adverse result in litigation arising from such a claim could involve an injunction to prevent the sales of a material portion of our products, the reduction or elimination of the value of related inventories and the assessment of a substantial monetary award for damages related to past sales, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. we may experience losses related to intellectual property indemnity claims we provide intellectual property indemnification for certain customers, distributors, suppliers and subcontractors for attorney fees and damages and costs awarded against these parties in certain circumstances in which our products are alleged to infringe third party intellectual property rights, including patents, registered trademarks and copyrights. in certain cases, there are limits on and exceptions to our potential liability for indemnification relating to intellectual property infringement claims. we cannot estimate the amount of potential future payments, if any, that we might be required to make as a result of these agreements. to date, we have not been required to pay significant amounts for intellectual property indemnification claims. however, there can be no assurance that we will not have significant financial exposure under those intellectual property indemnification obligations. business interruptions from natural disasters could harm our business we operate our business in worldwide locations. some of our facilities and those of our subcontractors are located in geologically unstable areas of the world and are susceptible to damage from natural disasters. in the event of a natural disaster, we may suffer a disruption in our operations which could adversely affect our results of operations. our financial condition, operations and liquidity may be materially adversely affected in the event of a catastrophic loss for which we are self-insured we are primarily self-insured with respect to many of our commercial risks and exposures. based on management's assessment and judgment, we have determined that it is generally more cost effective to self-insure these risks. the risks and exposures we self-insure include, but are not limited to, fire, property and casualty, natural disasters, product defects, political risk, general liability, theft, counterfeits, patent infringement, certain employment practice matters and medical benefits for many of our domestic (united states) employees. we also maintain insurance contracts with independent insurance companies that provide certain of our employees with health (medical and dental) benefits, worker's compensation coverage, long-term disability income coverage, life insurance coverage and fiduciary insurance coverage for employee and company funds invested under the employee retirement income and security act. in addition, we maintain officer and director liability coverage and certain property insurance contracts with independent insurance companies. should there be catastrophic loss from events such as fires, explosions or 12 earthquakes or other natural disasters, among many other risks, or adverse court or similar decisions in any area in which we are self-insured, our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity may be materially adversely affected. limitations in manufacturing capacity or delays in lead-time for delivery of products could adversely affect our future growth opportunities and results of operations our ability to successfully realize revenue growth relative to any future increase in customer demands for our products could be limited by our manufacturing capacity and other supply constraints. our results of operations may be adversely affected if we fail to meet such increase in demand for our products without significantly increasing the lead-time required for our delivery of such products. any significant increase in the lead-time for delivery of products may negatively affect our customer relationships, reputation as a dependable supplier of products and ability to obtain future design wins, while potentially increasing order cancellations, aged, unsaleable or otherwise unrealized backlog , and the likelihood of our breach of supply agreement terms. any one of the foregoing factors could negatively affect our future revenue growth and results of operations. we are subject to warranty claims and product liability we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability suits in connection with reliability problems which may be experienced by our customers. our products are used by varying industries, including the transportation and medical industries. failure of our products to perform to specifications could lead to substantial damage to both the end product in which our device has been placed and to the user of such end product. if a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and any adverse determination could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we manufacture and sell products into many global jurisdictions where our efforts to contractually limit liability for certain damages, including consequential, indirect and non-proximately caused damages, may not be enforceable or may be found by a court to not apply in a particular situation. likewise, as we continue to partner with certain customers we may be required to accept increasing exposure for liability, including product liability. we believe these relationships with key customers will continue to increase. we continue to attempt to structure our customer relationships to reduce such liability exposures, however, any damages for such liability claims could materially adversely impact the company financially. should we choose to not enter into such relationships, our revenues and financial operations could be materially adversely affected. we may be liable for additional production costs and lost revenues to certain customers with whom we have entered into customer supply agreements, if we are unable to provide a specific part at a certain quantity and product quality we enter into contracts with certain customers whereby we commit to supply quantities of specified parts at a predetermined scheduled delivery date. the number of such arrangements continues to increase as this practice becomes more commonplace. should we be unable to supply the customer with the specific part at the quantity and product quality desired on the scheduled delivery date, the customer may incur additional production costs. in addition, the customer may incur lost revenues due to a delay in receiving the parts necessary to have the end-product ready for sale to its customers or due to product quality issues which may arise. under the customer supply agreements, we may be liable for direct additional production costs or lost revenues. if products were not shipped on time or were quality deficient, we may be liable for penalties and resulting damages. such liability, should it arise, and/or our inability to meet these commitments to our customers may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition and could damage our relationship, reputation and goodwill with the affected customers. we may pursue acquisitions and investments that could harm our operating results and may disrupt our business we have made and will continue to consider making strategic business investments, alliances and acquisitions we consider necessary to gain access to key technologies that we believe will augment our existing technical capability and support our business model objectives. acquisitions, alliances and investments involve risks and uncertainties that may unfavorably impact our future financial performance. if integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or suffer other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee. we must implement our business processes and systems in the acquired operations and effectively integrate the different cultures of acquired business organizations into our own. we may also need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability from acquired businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of acquisitions. in addition, because acquisitions of high technology companies are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. 13 if we fail to enter into future vendor managed inventory arrangements or fail to supply the specific product or quantity under such arrangements, the results of our operations and financial condition may be materially adversely impacted we enter into arrangements with certain original equipment manufacturers ("oems") and electronic manufacturing services ("ems") partners to consign quantities of certain products within close proximity of the oems and ems partners' manufacturing location. the inventory is physically segregated at these locations and we retain title and risk of loss related to this inventory until such time as the oem or ems partner pulls the inventory for use in their manufacturing process. once the inventory is pulled by the oem or ems partner, title and risk of loss pass to the customer, at which point we relieve inventory and recognize revenue and the related cost of goods sold. the specific quantities to be consigned are based on a forecast provided by the oem or ems partner. generally, the arrangements with the oems and ems partners provide for transfer of title and risk of loss once product has been consigned for a certain length of time. we believe these arrangements will continue to grow in terms of number of customers and products and will increase in proportion to consolidated net revenues. it is our belief that revenues from such arrangements will eventually become significant to consolidated net revenues. should we be unable or unwilling to enter into such agreements as requested by oems or ems partners, our results of operations may be materially adversely impacted. should we be unable to supply the specific product and quantity needed by the oem or ems partner as reflected in their forecast, we may be liable for damages, including, but not limited to, lost revenues and increased production costs which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. should we supply product in excess of the oem or ems partners actual usage, any inventory not consumed may become excess or obsolete which would result in an inventory write off that could materially adversely affect our results of operations. our stock price may be volatile the market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly. in the future, the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to general economic and market conditions and in response to quarter-to-quarter variations including but not limited to the following: our anticipated or actual results of operations; announcements or introductions of new products by us or our competitors; anticipated or actual operating results of our customers, peers or competitors; technological innovations or setbacks by us or our competitors; conditions in our four major markets; the commencement or outcome of litigation or governmental investigations; change in ratings and estimates of our performance by securities analysts; announcements of merger or acquisition transactions; dividend changes; changes in our capital structure, including any decision we make in regard to the repurchase of our common stock; management changes; supply constraints; semiconductor industry cyclicality; our inclusion in certain stock indices; our ability to maintain compliance with the sec reporting requirements; and other events or factors beyond our control. the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of many high technology companies, particularly semiconductor companies. in some instances, these fluctuations appear to have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. any such fluctuation could harm the market price of our common stock. our ability to service our debt obligations, including $300 million of senior unsecured notes, requires sufficient cash flow from our future operations in june 2010, the company issued $300 million in senior, unsecured debt due in 2013 with an effective interest rate of 3.49% . interest is payable semi-annually on december 14 and june 14. the debt indenture includes covenants that limit the company's ability to grant liens on its facilities and to enter into sale and leaseback transactions, which could limit the company's ability to secure debt funding in the future, if needed. in circumstances involving a change of control of the company followed by a downgrade of the rating of the company's notes, the company would be required to make an offer to repurchase these notes at a 14 purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. the company's ability to repurchase the notes in such events may be limited by the company's then-available financial resources or by the terms of other agreements to which the company is a party. although the company currently has the funds necessary to retire this debt, funds might not be available to repay the notes when they come due in the future. if the company fails to pay interest when due, or to repay the notes when due or materially breaches other loan covenants, it would constitute an event of default under the indenture governing the notes which, in turn, may also constitute an event of default under other obligations of the company. any event of default under the indenture or other obligations of the company and any additional obligations and restrictions imposed as a result thereof could negatively impact our financial results. our financial results may be adversely affected by increased tax rates and exposure to additional tax liabilities a number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; recent changes in our global structure that involve an increased investment in technology outside of the united states to better align asset ownership and business functions with revenues and profits; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in share-based compensation; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and the repatriation of non-u.s. earnings for which we have not previously provided for u.s. taxes. we are subject to taxation in various countries and jurisdictions. significant judgment is required to determine tax liabilities on a worldwide basis. our future tax rates could be affected by various changes in the composition of earnings in countries with different tax rates, changes in our global structure, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in the tax laws. any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods and may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. we may be subject to income tax liabilities under section 409a of the internal revenue code and other payroll taxes in the past, a number of our outstanding stock option awards were granted at exercise prices below the fair market value of our stock on the appropriate accounting measurement date. many of these options are potentially subject to option holder excise tax under section 409a of the internal revenue code (and, as applicable, similar excise taxes under state law or foreign law). in fiscal year 2008, we took action to cure certain options from exposure under section 409a. however, there can be no assurance that such action cured all potential circumstances in which section 409a would apply. should it be determined that excise taxes under section 409a were to apply and we decide to reimburse option holders for such taxes, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. also, we have determined that certain payroll taxes, interest and penalties may apply to us under various sections of the internal revenue code, various state tax statutes, and tax statutes in various foreign jurisdictions. maxim has reviewed these potential liabilities and accrued the estimated probable amount of such liabilities. there can be no assurance that our accruals covered all potential circumstances in which additional payroll taxes, interest and penalties would apply. should it be found that additional payroll taxes, interest and penalties would apply, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. we may be materially adversely affected by currency fluctuations or changes in trade policies we conduct our manufacturing and other operations in various worldwide locations. a portion of our operating costs and expenses at foreign locations are paid in local currencies. many of the materials used in our products and much of the manufacturing process for our products are supplied by foreign companies or by our foreign operations, such as our test operations in the philippines and thailand. approximately 85% , 85% and 82% of our net revenues in fiscal years 2011 , 2010 and 2009 , respectively, were shipped to foreign locations. accordingly, both manufacturing and sales of our products may be adversely affected by political or economic conditions abroad. in addition, various forms of protectionist trade legislation are routinely proposed in the united states and certain foreign countries. a change in current tariff structures or other trade policies could adversely affect our foreign manufacturing 15 or marketing strategies. currency exchange fluctuations could also decrease revenue and increase our operating costs, the cost of components manufactured abroad, and the cost of our products to foreign customers, or decrease the costs of products from our foreign competitors. we are subject to u.s. customs and export regulations we are subject to u.s. customs and export regulations, including u.s. international traffic and arms regulations and similar laws, which collectively control import, export and sale of technologies by companies. failure to comply with such regulations may result in civil and criminal enforcement, including monetary fines and possible injunctions against shipment of product, which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. if we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business may be harmed our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our chief executive officer, our other executive officers, and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers and business unit managers, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. the loss of the services of one or several of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on us. in addition, there could be a material adverse effect on us should the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increase significantly or should we be unable to continue to attract, motivate and retain qualified personnel. should we lose an engineer who is key to a project's completion during the course of a particular project, the project's completion may be delayed. this delay could negatively affect customer relationships and goodwill and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our certificate of incorporation contains certain anti-takeover provisions that may discourage, delay or prevent a hostile change in control of our company our certificate of incorporation permits our board of directors to authorize the issuance of up to 2,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the rights, preferences and privileges and restrictions applicable to such shares without any further vote or action by our stockholders. any such issuance might discourage, delay or prevent a hostile change in control of our company. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 31 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk the company's exposure to market risk for changes in interest rates relates primarily to the company's cash and cash equivalents and the 3.45% fixed rate senior unsecured notes issued in june 2010 (see note 5 "financial instruments" to the consolidated financial statements accompanying this report). the company does not use derivative financial instruments to hedge the risk of interest rate volatility. at june 25, 2011 , the company maintained a significant portfolio of money market fund investments, which 31 are included in cash and cash equivalents. these money market funds are all available on a daily basis. foreign currency risk the company generates revenues in various global markets based on orders obtained in non-u.s. currencies, primarily the japanese yen, the euro and the british pound. maxim incurs expenditures denominated in non-us currencies, principally philippine pesos and thailand baht associated with the company's manufacturing activities in the philippines and thailand, respectively, and expenditures for sales offices and research and development activities undertaken outside of the u.s. maxim is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates primarily on orders and accounts receivable from sales in these foreign currencies and cash flows for expenditures in these foreign currencies. maxim has established risk management strategies designed to reduce the impact of volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in the exchange rates for these currencies. these strategies reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rates movements. maxim does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. the company routinely hedges its exposures to certain foreign currencies with various financial institutions in an effort to minimize the impact of certain currency exchange rate fluctuations. if a financial counter party to any of the company's hedging arrangements experiences financial difficulties or is otherwise unable to honor the terms of the foreign currency hedge, the company may experience financial losses. for derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges under asc no. 815- derivatives and hedging, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative is reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and reclassified into earnings into the same financial statement line as the item being hedged, and in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. gains and losses on the derivative representing either hedge ineffectiveness or hedge components excluded from the assessment of effectiveness are recognized in interest and other (expense) income, net. for derivative instruments that are not designated as hedging instruments under asc no. 815, gains and losses are recognized in interest and other (expense) income, net. all derivatives are foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain foreign currency denominated assets or liabilities. the gains and losses on these derivatives largely offset the changes in the fair value of the assets or liabilities being hedged. foreign exchange contracts the net unrealized gain or loss, if any, is potentially subject to market and credit risk as it represents appreciation (decline) of the hedge position against the spot exchange rates. the net realized and unrealized gains or losses from hedging foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities were immaterial during the year ended june 25, 2011 and june 26, 2010 .