risk factors 30 risk factors risk factors investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk, and you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k. if any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer, possibly materially. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. risks related to our products a majority of our revenues are due to sales of incivek (telaprevir) in the united states, and our future revenues from incivek are expected to decline. in 2012, 87% of our total net product revenues were attributable to incivek. our net product revenues from sales of incivek declined over the course of 2012. while we expect incivek net product revenues to decline in 2013 as compared to 2012, we cannot accurately predict the extent of this decline. if our incivek net product revenues, market share and/or other information regarding sales of incivek do not meet the expectations of investors or public market analysts, the market price of our common stock may decline. the number and type of treatments for hcv infection has and likely will continue to change rapidly. factors that may affect the market for any specific hcv treatment regimen, including incivek triple-combination therapy, include the introduction of new competitive drugs or drug combinations, increased sales from currently approved drugs, adverse information regarding the safety characteristics or efficacy of the regimen, significant new information regarding potential treatment regimens being evaluated in clinical trials and enrollment by patients in clinical trials being conducted by us or our competitors. we believe the decreases in incivek net product revenues that we experienced in 2012 are the result of a combination of factors, including the safety and efficacy data that have been reported by our competitors regarding treatment regimens for hcv infection that may become commercially available over the next several years. we market incivek in direct competition with merck &amp; co., inc.'s victrelis (boceprevir), another hcv protease inhibitor that was approved for sale in 2011. since incivek's approval in 2011, many companies have continued to pursue the development of treatment regimens for hcv infection that could potentially offer improved safety, efficacy and/or tolerability, including shorter duration therapies, therapies that do not require the administration of peg-ifn, and therapies that do not cause side effects seen with the currently approved hcv protease inhibitors. many companies are investigating combination regimens that incorporate one or more of an hcv protease inhibitor, an hcv nucleotide analogue, an hcv non-nucleotide polymerase inhibitor or an ns5a inhibitor, each of which inhibit hcv viral replication through different mechanisms of action. clinical trials of these investigational combination regimens are being conducted in a wide variety of patient populations, including treatment-na ve and treatment-failure patients, and across all hcv genotypes, which respond differently to different combinations of molecules employing different mechanisms. on the basis of clinical data reported by our competitors from numerous late-stage clinical trials, it appears likely that future improvements in hcv treatment regimens will come stepwise, with the next group of drugs to be approved for administration in combination with peg-ifn and rbv, followed quickly by drugs to be co-administered in all-oral regimens that do not require peg-ifn, an injectable. gilead's gs-7977, an hcv nucleotide analogue, and janssen's tmc435, an hcv protease inhibitor, have been evaluated in phase 3 clinical trials. the top-line results reported by gilead and janssen from these phase 3 clinical trials suggest that the safety and efficacy profiles of gs-7977 and tmc435 will position them, if approved, to potentially take a significant portion of the market for hcv therapies. while it is difficult to estimate regulatory timelines and the response of regulatory agencies to submissions for marketing approval, we believe it is likely that gs-7977-based and/or tmc435-based treatment regimens will be approved in one or more markets as a treatment for genotype 1 hcv infection in late 2013 or 2014. in addition to the hcv treatment regimens that are being developed in combination with peg-ifn and rbv, many all-oral treatment regimens for hcv infection are in development that could render uncompetitive current and future treatment regimens that include the administration of peg-ifn by injection. we are planning to evaluate all-oral treatment regimens that include our hcv nucleotide analogue, vx-135, in phase 2 clinical trials. some of our competitors' potential all-oral treatment regimens are more advanced, including all-oral treatment regimens that are being evaluated in phase 3 clinical 30 table of contents trials being conducted by gilead and abbvie, inc. while the development and regulatory timelines for these drug candidates are subject to risk and uncertainty, we believe that (i) substantial additional clinical data regarding potential all-oral treatment regimens will become available in 2013 and (ii) it is possible that one or more all-oral treatment regimens for genotype 1 hcv infection could be commercially available as soon as late 2014. as a result, if we are successful in developing all-oral treatment regimens that include vx-135 and/or vx-222, independently or with a collaborator, it is likely that our all-oral treatment regimens would compete directly with one or more previously approved all-oral treatment regimens. if one or more treatment regimens with a similar or better efficacy, safety and/or tolerability profile than our telaprevir-based treatment regimen, is approved, we expect that incivek would lose a significant portion of its share of the genotype 1 hcv infection treatment market. our future revenues from kalydeco monotherapy are dependent, among other factors, on the outcomes of reimbursement discussions in international markets and ongoing clinical trials in which we are evaluating ivacaftor in additional patient groups. in 2012, we obtained approval to market kalydeco (ivacaftor) in the united states, canada and the european union for the treatment of patients with cf six years of age and older with the g551d mutation in the cftr gene. ince its approval in the first quarter of 2012, most eligible patients in the united states have initiated and are receiving treatment with kalydeco. we are in discussions regarding reimbursement for kalydeco in multiple international markets. in france and germany, we began commercial sales of kalydeco in 2012, but we are continuing to discuss the reimbursement rate we will receive for kalydeco in future periods. funding for kalydeco has been recommended in england and ireland, and we anticipate that reimbursement in these countries will begin in the second quarter of 2013. in other countries, we must first complete the reimbursement discussions before we commence commercial sales. there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain, obtain on a timely basis, or maintain appropriate reimbursement for kalydeco in these international markets. in order to expand the market for ivacaftor monotherapy, we will need to demonstrate that ivacaftor is safe and effective in additional patient populations. we are conducting three phase 3 clinical trials and one phase 2 clinical trial to evaluate ivacaftor as a monotherapy in additional patient populations, including patients younger than six years of age with gating mutations and patients with other mutations in the cftr gene. these clinical trials are subject to many of the same risks and uncertainties that are described in these risk factors with respect to the development of our drug candidates. even if these clinical trials are successful, we do not expect that we would obtain approval for the use of ivacaftor in additional populations until 2014 or later. we cannot predict the royalty revenues we will receive based on incivo sales by janssen in its territories. janssen began marketing incivo (telaprevir) in the second half of 2011, and we earned $117.6 million in royalty revenues on net sales of incivo by janssen in 2012. in addition to the factors that contribute to the uncertainty of sales of incivek (telaprevir) by us in the united states, which apply equally to janssen's sales in its territories, sales in janssen's territories are dependent upon janssen's sales and marketing efforts, which we do not control and may not be able to effectively influence, and the actions and decisions of foreign regulatory authorities. we cannot predict the royalty revenues that we will recognize in future periods from sales of incivo by janssen or the timing of such revenues. if our competitors bring drugs with superior product profiles to market, our drugs may not be competitive and our revenues could decline. incivek, kalydeco and any drugs we develop in the future may not be able to compete effectively with marketed drugs or new drugs that may be developed by competitors. there are many other companies developing drugs for the same indications that we are pursuing. in order to compete successfully in these areas, we must demonstrate improved safety, efficacy and/or tolerability, and ease of manufacturing, and gain and maintain market acceptance over competing drugs. many of our competitors, including major pharmaceutical companies such as abbvie, bristol-myers squibb, gilead, johnson &amp; johnson, merck, novartis, pfizer, sanofi and roche, possess substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we possess. we are aware of a number of companies that are developing new treatments for hcv infection, including hcv nucleotide analogues, hcv protease inhibitors, non-nucleoside hcv polymerase inhibitors and hcv ns5a inhibitors. although drug development is a lengthy process and involves a high degree of risk, we expect that over the next several years 31 table of contents several of these competitive hcv drug candidates may be approved as part of treatment regimens for hcv infection in the united states and elsewhere in the world. as a result, the commercial prospects for incivek, and vx-135 and vx-222, if approved, will depend on, among other factors: the efficacy, safety, tolerability and other characteristics of any combination therapy including incivek, vx-135 and/or vx-222 relative to existing and future treatments for hcv infection; our ability to establish vx-135 and/or vx-222, if approved, or incivek as a significant component of any commercially competitive all-oral therapy for the treatment of hcv infection; and the clinical data obtained and timing of marketing approvals for drug candidates being developed by our competitors, including any all-oral therapy or shorter duration therapy for the treatment of hcv infection. one or more competing therapies for the treatment of hcv infection may be approved in late 2013 or 2014 with a similar or better efficacy, safety and/or tolerability profile than our telaprevir-based treatment regimen, which would negatively affect incivek and incivo sales and could negatively affect our business and financial condition. a number of companies are seeking to identify and develop drug candidates for the treatment of cf, including novartis, pfizer, genzyme and several private companies. we believe our competitors have research and development programs directed at identifying cftr potentiators, cftr correctors and drug candidates with other mechanisms of action with the goal of addressing the underlying cause of cf. while we believe that it will be several years before any of these competitive programs enter late-stage clinical development, if one or more competing therapies are successfully developed as a treatment for patients with cf, our revenues from kalydeco and/or other compounds, if then approved, could face competitive pressures. if we discover safety issues with either of our products that were not known at the time of approval or if we fail to comply with continuing u.s. and applicable foreign regulations, commercialization efforts for the product could be negatively affected, the approved product could lose its approval or sales could be suspended, and our business could be materially harmed. our products are subject to continuing regulatory oversight, including the review of additional safety information. drugs are more widely used by patients once approval has been obtained and therefore side-effects and other problems may be observed after approval that were not seen or anticipated, or were not as prevalent or severe, during pre-approval clinical trials or nonclinical studies. for example, in december 2012, we updated the incivek label in the united states to include a boxed warning stating that fatal and non-fatal serious skin reactions have been reported in patients taking incivek combination treatment. the subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a product could negatively affect commercial sales of the product, result in restrictions on the product or lead to the withdrawal of the product from the market. the reporting of adverse safety events involving our products or public speculation about such events could cause our stock price to decline or experience periods of volatility. if we or our collaborators fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we or our collaborators may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals for specific products, product recalls and seizures, operating restrictions and/or criminal prosecutions. in addition, the manufacturers we engage to make our products and the manufacturing facilities in which our products are made are subject to periodic review and inspection by the fda and foreign regulatory authorities. if problems are identified during the review or inspection of these manufacturers or manufacturing facilities, it could result in our inability to use the facility to make our product or a determination that inventories are not safe for commercial sale. if physicians, patients and third-party payors do not accept our drugs, we may be unable to generate significant revenues in future periods. our drugs may not gain or maintain market acceptance among physicians and patients. effectively marketing incivek and kalydeco, and any of our other drug candidates, if approved, requires substantial efforts, both prior to launch and after approval. physicians may elect not to prescribe our drugs, and patients may elect not to request or take them, for a variety of reasons including: 32 table of contents lower demonstrated efficacy, safety and/or tolerability compared to other drugs; prevalence and severity of adverse side-effects; lack of cost-effectiveness; lack of reimbursement availability from third-party payors; a decision to wait for the approval of other therapies in development that have significant perceived advantages over our applicable drug; convenience and ease of administration; other potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; and ineffective marketing and/or distribution support. if our drugs fail to achieve or maintain market acceptance, we will not be able to generate significant revenues in future periods. government and other third-party payors seek to contain costs of health care through legislative and other means. if they fail to provide coverage and adequate reimbursement rates for our products, our revenues will be harmed. in both domestic and foreign markets, our sales of products depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. third-party payors include government health programs such as medicare and medicaid in the united states and the national health care systems in many international markets, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. governments and other third-party payors seek to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means, and in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of therapeutic and other pharmaceutical products is subject to governmental control. in the united states, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental control. the aca requires discounts under the medicare drug benefit program and increases the rebates paid by pharmaceutical companies on drugs covered by medicaid. in addition, the aca imposes an annual fee, which will increase annually, on sales by branded pharmaceutical manufacturers. in addition, third-party payors attempt to contain health care costs by demanding price discounts or rebates and limiting both the types and variety of drugs that they will cover and the amounts that they will pay for drugs. as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our products. we might need to conduct post-marketing studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of our products or any other future products to such payors' satisfaction. such studies might require us to commit a significant amount of management's time and financial and other resources. our products might not ultimately be considered cost-effective. adequate third-party reimbursement might not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. reimbursement rates may vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost products that already are reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other products or services and may reflect budgetary constraints and/or imperfections in the data used to calculate these rates. net prices for products are reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs and privately-negotiated discounts. while we have implemented policies in an effort to comply with mandated reimbursement rates, the u.s. federal government, state governments and private payors frequently pursue actions against pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies alleging that the companies have overstated prices in order to inflate reimbursement rates. any such action could adversely affect the pricing of and revenues from our products. specialty pharmaceuticals are drugs that are prescribed by specialist physicians to treat rare or life-threatening conditions and typically address smaller patient populations. each of our products is a specialty pharmaceutical product, and our research and development programs are focused on developing additional specialty pharmaceutical products. the increasing availability and use of innovative specialty pharmaceuticals, combined with their relative higher cost as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products, is beginning to generate significant third-party payor interest in developing cost-containment strategies targeted to this sector. while the effect on us of payers' efforts to control access to and pricing of specialty pharmaceuticals has been limited to date, the increasing use of health technology assessment in markets around the world and the deteriorating finances of governments may lead to significant adverse business affects in the future. 33 table of contents any legislation or regulatory changes or relaxation of laws that restrict imports of drugs from other countries also could reduce the net price we receive for our products. if we market any of our products in a manner that violates federal or state health care laws, including fraud and abuse laws, laws prohibiting off-label promotion, disclosure laws or other similar laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. we are subject to health care fraud and abuse laws, such as the federal false claims act and the anti-kickback provisions of the federal social security act, laws prohibiting off-label product promotion and other similar state and federal laws and regulations. while we have a corporate compliance program designed to actively identify, prevent and mitigate risk through the implementation of compliance policies and systems and the promotion of a culture of compliance, if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws our business could be materially harmed. the federal anti-kickback law prohibits knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the ordering, furnishing, arranging for or recommending of an item or service that is reimbursable, in whole or in part, by a federal health care program, such as medicare or medicaid. the federal statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, patients, purchasers and formulary managers on the other hand, and therefore constrains our marketing practices and our various service arrangements with physicians, including physicians who make clinical decisions to use our products. although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchasing or recommending may be subject to scrutiny or penalty if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in promotion for uses that the fda has not approved, known as off-label uses, that caused claims to be submitted to medicaid for non-covered off-label uses; and submitting inflated best price information to the medicaid rebate program. although physicians are permitted, based on their medical judgment, to prescribe products for indications other than those cleared or approved by the fda, manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products for such off-label uses. we market incivek for adults with genotype 1 hcv infection and kalydeco for patients six years of age and older with cf who have the g551d mutation in the cftr gene and provide promotional materials and training programs to physicians regarding the use of incivek and kalydeco in these patient populations. if the fda determines that our promotional materials, training or other activities constitute off-label promotion, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or other activities or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. it also is possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they believe that the alleged improper promotion led to the submission and payment of claims for an off-label use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. even if it is later determined we were not in violation of these laws, we may be faced with negative publicity, incur significant expenses defending our actions and have to divert significant management resources from other matters. also applicable to some of our practices is hipaa and its implementing regulations, which created federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program or making false statements relating to health care matters and which also imposes certain regulatory and contractual requirements regarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. the majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. in addition, certain states have laws governing the privacy of certain health information, which may differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by hipaa, complicating compliance efforts. sanctions under 34 table of contents these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a pharmaceutical manufacturer's products from reimbursement under government programs and criminal fines. even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could harm our business. in recent years, several states and localities have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, health care provider payments and other activities. additionally, as part of the aca, the federal government recently enacted the physician payment sunshine act provisions. the physician payment sunshine act provisions will require pharmaceutical manufacturers to report annually to the secretary of hhs payments or other transfers of value made by that entity to physicians and teaching hospitals. in february 2013, regulations were released that contain detailed guidance regarding the information that must be collected and reported. we will be required to collect information regarding such payments starting in august 2013 and to begin reporting such information in march 2014. over the next several years, we will need to dedicate significant resources to enhance our systems and processes in order to comply with these regulations. failure to comply with the reporting requirements would result in significant civil monetary penalties. the aca also includes various provisions designed to strengthen significantly fraud and abuse enforcement, such as increased funding for enforcement efforts and the lowering of the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback statute and criminal health care fraud statute such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. if our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any such laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from federal health care programs and/or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. the risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are subject to a variety of interpretations. any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. the sales and marketing practices of our industry have been the subject of increased scrutiny from federal and state government agencies, and we believe that this trend will continue. we have in place policies to govern how we may retain health care professionals as consultants that reflect the current climate on this issue and are providing training on these policies. any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. future health care reform measures could hinder or prevent commercial success of our products and drug candidates. the united states federal government and other governments have shown significant interest in pursuing health care reform. any government-adopted reform measures could adversely affect the pricing of health care products, including our approved products and/or any future drug candidates approved for sale. the continuing efforts of governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors for health care products to contain or reduce health care costs may adversely affect our ability to set prices we believe are fair for our products or any drugs we may develop and commercialize. new laws, regulations and judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations and decisions, relating to health care availability, methods of delivery or payment for drugs, or sales, marketing or pricing, may limit our potential revenues, and we may need to revise our research and development or commercialization programs. the pricing and reimbursement environment may change in the future and become more challenging for any of several reasons, including policies advanced by the u.s. government, new health care legislation or fiscal challenges faced by government health administration authorities. specifically, in the united states and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals and initiatives to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell products. some of these proposed and implemented reforms could result in reduced reimbursement rates for our current or future products, which would adversely affect our business, operations and financial results. the aca has far reaching consequences for biopharmaceutical companies like us. as a result of this legislation, substantial changes are being made to the current system for paying for health care in the united states, including changes made in order to extend medical benefits to those who would otherwise lack health insurance coverage. if reimbursement for our products is substantially less than we expect in the future, or rebate obligations associated with them are substantially increased, our business could be materially and adversely affected. 35 table of contents further federal and state proposals and health care reforms in and outside of the united states could limit the prices that can be charged for our products and may further limit our commercial opportunity. our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the aca, by the medicare prescription drug coverage legislation, by the possible effect of such current or future legislation on amounts that private insurers will pay and by other health care reforms that may be enacted or adopted in the future. risks related to development, clinical testing and regulation of our products and drug candidates we are investing significant resources in our development program for vx-809 in combination with ivacaftor, based primarily on data from a phase 2 clinical trial in which patients received vx-809 in combination with ivacaftor over a short duration. if we are unable to show the safety and efficacy of vx-809 in combination with ivacaftor, or experience delays in doing so, our business would be materially harmed. in february 2013, we initiated a phase 3 clinical development program for vx-809 in combination with ivacaftor. we initiated this program based primarily on data from a phase 2 clinical trial in which a relatively small number of patients received vx-809 as a monotherapy for 28 days, followed by vx-809 in combination with ivacaftor for 28 days. the pattern of lung function response observed in both cohort 2 and cohort 3 of this clinical trial was similar, with a decline in fev 1 during the vx-809 monotherapy dosing period followed by a statistically significant increase in fev 1 during the vx-809 and ivacaftor combination dosing period. we expect to enroll approximately 500 patients with cf who are homozygous for the f508del mutation in each of our two phase 3 clinical trials, for a total of approximately 1,000 patients. vx-809 will be evaluated in combination with ivacaftor over a significantly longer dosing period of 24 weeks and without the monotherapy lead-in period. in order to obtain approval for vx-809 in combination with ivacaftor, we will need to show that vx-809 in combination with ivacaftor is safe and effective in a significantly larger number of patients than were involved in the phase 2 clinical trial, over the significantly longer 24-week combination dosing period. if we are unable to show the safety and efficacy of vx-809 and ivacaftor in the relevant patient populations, or experience delays in doing so, our business would be materially harmed. our drug candidates remain subject to clinical testing and regulatory approval. if we are unable to successfully develop additional drug candidates, our business will be materially harmed. our business depends upon the successful development and commercialization of additional drug candidates. these drug candidates are in various stages of development and must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before they can be approved by the fda or comparable foreign regulatory authorities for sale. to satisfy these standards, we must allocate resources among our various development programs and must engage in expensive and lengthy testing of our drug candidates. discovery and development efforts for new pharmaceutical products, including new combination therapies, are resource-intensive and may take 10 to 15 years or longer for each drug candidate. despite our efforts, our drug candidates may not: offer therapeutic or other improvement over existing competitive drugs; be proven safe and effective in clinical trials; meet applicable regulatory standards; be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs; or if approved for commercial sale, be successfully marketed as pharmaceutical products. we have ongoing or planned clinical trials for a number of our drug candidates and ivacaftor, which is being evaluated in additional patient groups. the strength of our company's product portfolio and pipeline will depend in large part upon the outcomes of these clinical trials. findings, including toxicology findings, in nonclinical studies conducted concurrently with clinical trials as well as results of our clinical trials could lead to abrupt changes in our development activities, including the possible cessation of development activities associated with a particular drug candidate or program. furthermore, results from our clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the fda or other regulatory authorities for approval of a drug candidate. many companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including us, have suffered significant setbacks in later-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in earlier-stage clinical trials. accordingly, the results from 36 table of contents completed preclinical studies and clinical trials may not be replicated in later clinical trials, and ongoing clinical trials for our drug candidates may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later-stage clinical trials or of the likelihood of approval of a drug candidate for commercial sale. in addition, from time to time we report interim data from our clinical trials. interim data from a clinical trial may not be predictive of final results from the clinical trial. if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval, we will be unable to commercialize our drug candidates. our drug candidates are subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to their development, clinical evaluation, manufacturing and commercialization. rigorous nonclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory approval process are required in the united states and in most other countries prior to the commercial sale of drug candidates. satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time-consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. it is possible that none of the drug candidates we are developing will be approved for marketing. the time required to complete clinical trials and to satisfy the fda and other countries' regulatory review processes is uncertain and typically takes many years. our analysis of data obtained from nonclinical and clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. we also may encounter unanticipated delays or increased costs due to government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in governmental policy during the period of drug development, clinical trials and governmental regulatory review. any failure to obtain regulatory approvals for a drug candidate would prevent us from commercializing that drug candidate. any delay in obtaining required regulatory approvals could materially adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize a drug candidate. furthermore, any regulatory approval to market a drug may be subject to limitations that we do not expect on the indicated uses for which we may market the drug. any such limitations could reduce the size of the market for the drug. we also are subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement. the foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with the fda approval process described above, as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of foreign requirements. approval by the fda does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities outside the united states and approval by a foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by the fda. in addition, the fda may not favorably consider data from clinical trials conducted in foreign jurisdictions. foreign jurisdictions have different approval procedures than those required by the fda and may impose additional testing requirements for our drug candidates. if clinical trials are prolonged or delayed, our development timelines for the affected development program could be extended, our costs to develop the compound could increase and the competitive position of the compound could be adversely affected. we cannot predict whether or not we will encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause us or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend clinical trials, or delay the analysis of data from our completed or ongoing clinical trials. any of the following could delay our development programs: ongoing discussions with the fda or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials and the number of clinical trials we must conduct; delays in enrolling volunteers or patients into clinical trials, including as a result of low numbers of patients that meet the eligibility criteria for the trial; a lower than anticipated retention rate of volunteers or patients in clinical trials; the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive results, unforeseen complications in testing or clinical investigator error; inadequate supply or deficient quality of drug candidate materials or other materials necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials; unfavorable fda or foreign regulatory authority inspection and review of a manufacturing facility that supplied clinical trial materials or its relevant manufacturing records or a clinical trial site or records of any clinical or preclinical investigation; 37 table of contents unfavorable scientific results from clinical trials; serious and unexpected drug-related side-effects experienced by participants in our clinical trials or by participants in clinical trials being conducted by our competitors to evaluate drug candidates with similar mechanisms of action or structures to drug candidates that we are developing; favorable results in testing of our competitors' drug candidates, or fda or foreign regulatory authority approval of our competitors' drug candidates; or action by the fda or a foreign regulatory authority to place a clinical hold on a trial. our ability to enroll patients in our clinical trials in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis is subject to a number of factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the number of other clinical trials ongoing and competing for patients in the same indication and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. in addition, patients may drop out of our clinical trials or may be lost to follow-up medical evaluation after treatment ends, and this could impair the validity or statistical significance of the trials. delays in patient enrollment or unforeseen drop-out rates may result in increased costs and longer development times. we, our collaborators, the fda or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a drug candidate at any time if we or they believe the healthy volunteers or patients participating in such clinical trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. any such suspension could materially adversely affect the development of a particular drug candidate and our business. we may not successfully develop vx-135 or vx-222 and, as a result, we could be subject to significant impairment charges in future periods. in 2011, we licensed hcv nucleotide analogues from alios and recorded $250.6 million as an intangible asset on our consolidated balance sheet. in 2009, we acquired virochem pharma inc., or virochem, for $100.0 million in cash and 10.7 million shares of our common stock. we acquired virochem to secure rights to two non-nucleoside hcv polymerase inhibitors, vx-222 and vx-759. in the third quarter of 2011, we determined that the fair value of vx-759 was zero dollars, which resulted in a $105.8 million impairment charge in the third quarter of 2011. as of december 31, 2012, our consolidated balance sheet included intangible assets of $412.9 million related to vx-222 and $250.6 million related to the alios hcv nucleotide program. there are numerous reasons why we may not be able to successfully develop a combination therapy for the treatment of hcv infection that includes vx-222, vx-135 or a combination of both of them, including: data from clinical trials involving compounds evaluated separately may not predict possible outcomes, such as unforeseen drug interactions from compounds dosed in combination, which could negatively affect the efficacy and safety profile of the combination therapy; positive results in small clinical trials and nonclinical studies may not be predictive of results in clinical trials involving large numbers of patients; and favorable results of testing or earlier fda or foreign regulatory approval of competitors' products with a better product profile. there can be no assurance that we will successfully develop vx-222 or vx-135, and if we do not successfully develop both of these drug candidates we will incur additional impairment charges in future periods related to vx-222 and/or vx-135. if we incur a significant impairment charge, the value of our common stock could decrease. if our processes and systems are not compliant with regulatory requirements, we could be subject to restrictions on marketing our products or could be delayed in submitting regulatory filings seeking approvals for our drug candidates. we have a number of regulated processes and systems that are required to obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our drugs and drug candidates. these processes and systems are subject to continual review and periodic inspection by the fda and other regulatory bodies. if compliance issues are identified at any point in the development and approval process, 38 table of contents we may experience delays in filing for regulatory approval for our drug candidates, or delays in obtaining regulatory approval after filing. any later discovery of previously unknown problems or safety issues with approved drugs or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in restrictions on such drugs or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of drugs from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal penalties or a refusal by the fda and/or other regulatory bodies to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we are a party to agreements that transfer responsibility for complying with specified regulatory requirements, such as filing and maintenance of marketing authorizations and safety reporting or compliance with manufacturing requirements, to our collaborators and third-party manufacturers. if our collaborators or third-party manufacturers do not fulfill these regulatory obligations, any drugs for which we or they obtain approval may be subject to later restrictions on manufacturing or sale, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. risks related to collaborators, manufacturing and reliance on third parties we depend on our collaborators to work with us to develop, manufacture and commercialize our products and some of our drug candidates. we have granted development and commercialization rights for telaprevir to janssen (worldwide other than north america and specific countries in asia) and to mitsubishi tanabe (specific countries in asia). we are entitled to royalties from sales of incivo (telaprevir) in janssen's territories. the success of the commercialization of incivo in janssen's territories is dependent, in part, upon janssen's sales and marketing efforts, which we do not control and may not be able to effectively influence. if janssen does not effectively market incivo, our cash flows from royalties on net sales of incivo would be materially harmed. we also in-license vx-135 from alios and any loss of this license would materially harm our efforts to develop an all-oral, interferon-free treatment regimen for hcv infection. the risks that we face in connection with these existing and any future collaborations include the following: our collaborators may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts or may have insufficient resources to effectively develop our drug candidates. the ability of some of our products and drug candidates to reach their potential could be limited if collaborators decrease or fail to increase development or commercialization efforts related to those products or drug candidates. any future collaboration agreements may have the effect of limiting the areas of research and development that we may pursue, either alone or in collaboration with third parties. collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, drugs that are similar to or competitive with the drugs or drug candidates that are the subject of their collaborations with us. for example, janssen is dedicating significant development resources and planning to seek approval to market tmc435, a potentially competitive hcv protease inhibitor, which could increase the likelihood that janssen would terminate our collaboration or apply fewer resources to marketing incivo. our collaboration agreements are subject to termination under various circumstances, including, as in the case of our agreement with janssen, termination without cause. any such termination by janssen could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and/or disrupt the commercial sale of incivo in janssen's territories. 39 table of contents we depend on third-party manufacturers, including sole source suppliers, to manufacture our products and the materials we require for our clinical trials. we may not be able to maintain these relationships and could experience supply disruptions outside of our control. we rely on a worldwide network of third-party manufacturers to manufacture and distribute incivek (telaprevir) and kalydeco (ivacaftor) for commercial sale and clinical trials, and our drug candidates for clinical trials. as a result of our reliance on these third-party manufacturers and suppliers, including sole source suppliers of certain components of our products and drug candidates, we could be subject to significant supply disruptions outside of our control. our supply chain for sourcing raw materials and manufacturing drug product ready for distribution is a multi-step international endeavor. third-party contract manufacturers, including some in china, supply us with raw materials, and contract manufacturers in the european union and the united states convert these raw materials into drug substance and convert the drug substance into final dosage form. establishing and managing this global supply chain requires a significant financial commitment and the creation and maintenance of numerous third-party contractual relationships. although we attempt to effectively manage the business relationships with companies in our supply chain, we do not have control over their operations. supply disruptions may result from a number of factors, including shortages in product raw materials, labor or technical difficulties, regulatory inspections or restrictions, shipping or customs delays or any other performance failure by any third-party manufacturer on which we rely. any supply disruptions could disrupt sales of our products and/or the timing of our clinical trials. furthermore, we may be required to modify our production methods to permit us to economically manufacture our drugs for sale and our drug candidates for clinical trials. these modifications may require us to re-evaluate our resources and the resources of our third-party manufacturers, which could result in abrupt changes in our production methods and supplies. we require a supply of incivek for sale in north america. we believe there are multiple third parties capable of providing most of the materials and services we need in order to manufacture and distribute incivek. it is also possible that supply of materials that can not be second-sourced can be managed with inventory planning. we have limited flexibility to adjust our supply in response to changes in demand, due to the significant lead times required to manufacture incivek. we require a supply of ivacaftor for commercial sale (as kalydeco) and for use in our clinical trials. we obtain ivacaftor to meet our commercial and clinical supply needs through a third-party manufacturing network. our supply chain includes several sole source suppliers. a disruption in the commercial supply of kalydeco for patients would have a significant impact on patients, our business and our product revenues. a disruption in the clinical supply of ivacaftor could delay the completion of clinical trials and impact timelines for filing an snda or nda. in 2013, we plan to obtain an alternative source for the active ingredient of ivacaftor, which is a sole-sourced material that is critical to the supply of ivacaftor, and to obtain second source suppliers in 2014 for other components of the ivacaftor supply chain. there can be no assurance that we will be able to establish secondary sources for all of our kalydeco supply needs on a timely basis or at all. in the course of providing its services, a contract manufacturer may develop process technology related to the manufacture of our products or drug candidates that the manufacturer owns, either independently or jointly with us. this would increase our reliance on that manufacturer or require us to obtain a license from that manufacturer in order to have our products or drug candidates manufactured by other suppliers utilizing the same process. in 2012, we recorded an aggregate of $133.2 million in charges for excess and obsolete incivek inventories, and future adverse changes in the outlook for commercial sales of incivek could result in additional inventory write-downs and related charges. in 2012, we recorded an aggregate of $133.2 million in charges for excess and obsolete incivek inventories. these charges were based on our analysis of our incivek inventory levels in relation to our commercial outlook for incivek. as part of the analysis, we considered, among other factors, (i) decreases in demand for incivek during 2012 and our expectation that demand would decrease further in the future, (ii) the potential development by us of other drugs and combination treatments for hcv infection, including pursuant to collaboration agreements to evaluate vx-135 in combination with drug candidates controlled by third parties, that make it unlikely that incivek will play a role in future combination therapies, (iii) the placement of a boxed warning on the incivek prescribing information in december 2012, (iv) the potential development by our competitors of other drugs and combination treatments for hcv infection, (v) positive results reported in 2012 from clinical trials of drug candidates being developed by us and our competitors and (vi) the 40 table of contents initiation by our competitors of additional phase 2 and phase 3 clinical trials evaluating drug candidates for the treatment of hcv infection. we will continue to evaluate our incivek inventories on a quarterly basis, and future adverse changes in the outlook for commercial sales of incivek, including changes due to future developments with respect to demand for incivek or the advancement or approval of other drugs or combination treatments for hcv infection, could result in additional inventory write-downs and related charges in future periods, which could be material. we may not be able to attract collaborators or external funding for the development and commercialization of certain of our drug candidates. as part of our ongoing strategy, we may seek additional collaborative arrangements or external funding for certain of our development programs and/or seek to expand existing collaborations to cover additional commercialization and/or development activities. we have a number of research programs and early-stage and mid-stage clinical development programs, and we have entered into non-exclusive collaboration agreements to evaluate vx-135 in combination with compounds controlled by janssen and glaxosmithkline. at any time, we may determine that in order to continue development of a drug candidate or program or successfully commercialize a drug we need to identify a collaborator or expand an existing collaboration. potentially, and depending on the circumstances, we may desire that a collaborator either agree to fund portions of a drug development program led by us, or agree to provide all the funding and directly lead the development and commercialization of a program. no assurance can be given that any efforts we make to seek additional collaborative arrangements will be successfully completed on a timely basis or at all. if we are unable to enter into acceptable collaborative relationships, one or more of our development programs could be delayed or terminated and the possibility of our receiving a return on our investment in the program could be impaired. we rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such trials or regulatory requirements. we rely on third parties such as contract research organizations to help manage our clinical trial process and on medical institutions and clinical investigators to enroll qualified patients and conduct our clinical trials. our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. accordingly, these third-party contractors may not complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our trial design. if these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be required to replace them. although we believe that there are a number of other third-party contractors we could engage to continue these activities, it may result in a delay of the affected trial. if clinical trials are not conducted in accordance with our contractual expectations or regulatory requirements, action by regulatory authorities might significantly and adversely affect the conduct or progress of these trials or in specific circumstances might result in a requirement that a trial be redone. accordingly, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize our drug candidates could be delayed. risks related to intellectual property if our patents do not protect our drugs, or our drugs infringe third-party patents, we could be subject to litigation and substantial liabilities. we have numerous issued patents and patent applications pending in the united states, as well as counterparts in other countries. our success will depend, in significant part, on our ability to obtain and maintain u.s. and foreign patent protection for our drugs, their uses and our processes, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. in particular, we believe that composition-of-matter claims are the most significant patent claims for companies in our segment of the pharmaceutical industry, which focuses on small molecules that are new chemical compounds. while we have patents or patent applications with composition-of-matter claims for each of our products and clinical drug candidates, only a portion of these patents have been granted. we cannot be certain that any patents will issue from our patent applications or, even if patents issue or have issued, that the issued claims will provide us with any significant protection against competitive products or otherwise be valuable commercially. due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents, our ability to maintain, obtain and enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. u.s. and foreign patent applications typically are maintained in confidence for a period of time after they initially are filed with the applicable patent office. similarly, 41 table of contents publication of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries. consequently, we cannot be certain that we or our licensors were the first to invent, or the first to file patent applications on, our products or drug candidates or their use. if a third party also has filed a u.s. patent application relating to our products or drug candidates or a similar invention, we may have to participate in interference proceedings to determine priority of invention and could lose our patent position. furthermore, we may not have identified all u.s. and foreign patents or published applications that affect our business by blocking our ability to commercialize our drugs or drug candidates. our patents may be challenged by third parties, resulting in the patent being deemed invalid, unenforceable or narrowed in scope, or the third party may circumvent any such issued patents. also, our pending patent applications may not issue, and we may not receive any additional patents. our patents might not contain claims that are sufficiently broad to prevent others from utilizing our technologies. for instance, the issued patents relating to our products or drug candidates may be limited to a particular molecule or molecules and may not cover similar molecules that have similar clinical properties. consequently, our competitors may independently develop competing products that do not infringe our patents or other intellectual property. the laws of many foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the united states and many companies have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. if we encounter such difficulties in protecting or are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, our business could be substantially harmed. because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a drug candidate, it is possible that, before a drug candidate can be commercialized, the related patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization of such drug candidate, thereby reducing any advantages of the patent. to the extent our drug candidates are not commercialized significantly ahead of the expiration date of any applicable patent, or to the extent we have no other patent protection on such drug candidates, those drug candidates would not be protected by patents, and we would then rely solely on other forms of exclusivity, such as regulatory exclusivity provided by the fdca. risks related to our operations if we are unable to successfully implement our strategic plan, our business may be materially harmed. our strategy is to make focused investments to invent and develop innovative drugs, while we continue to market incivek and kalydeco to eligible patients to generate revenues and maintain a strong financial position. we expect our total revenues to decline in 2013 as compared to 2012 as a result of expected decreases in incivek revenues. while we are seeking to increase our revenues from kalydeco monotherapy, we do not believe that in the near term these potential increased revenues will be sufficient to offset expected declines in incivek revenues. in order to maintain a strong financial position, we are focusing our development investment on our three key mid- to late-stage development programs in cf, hcv infection and autoimmune diseases. we also plan to continue our investment in research programs with a focus on identifying drug candidates for specialty markets. our incivek net product revenues may decline more quickly than we currently anticipate and we may not be able to increase or sustain our kalydeco revenues, which would make it difficult to maintain a strong financial position and continue our research and development investments at the levels we currently plan. in addition, there can be no assurance that our key development programs will be successful or that our research programs will result in drugs that we can successfully develop and commercialize. if we fail to manage our operations effectively, our business may suffer. we have experienced growth in our headcount and have expanded our global operations, which has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational, research and development and financial infrastructure. to effectively manage our current and future potential growth, we will need to: implement and clearly communicate our corporate-wide strategies; enhance our operational and financial infrastructure, including our controls over records and information; enhance our operational, financial and management processes, including our cross-functional decision-making processes and our portfolio management systems; 42 table of contents train and manage our global employee base; transition from a u.s.-centric company into an organization capable of developing and commercializing multiple drug candidates in international markets; and enhance our compliance and legal resources. the transition to our new corporate headquarters in boston, massachusetts could materially disrupt our business operations. we expect that the transition to our new corporate headquarters in boston, massachusetts will be complicated and will require us to expend significant logistical and financial resources in both 2013 and 2014. our corporate headquarters and primary research facilities have been located in cambridge, massachusetts in close proximity to numerous other biotechnology companies since our founding in 1989. while we do not expect the move to result in significant turnover, we cannot be sure that we will be able to retain all our key scientific, commercial and management employees. we are endeavoring to complete the interior fit-out of the two new buildings in boston, massachusetts by late 2013, and we are planning for a staggered move of employees, office and laboratory supplies and certain equipment from our current facilities to our new corporate headquarters beginning after the completion of the fit-out of the two new buildings. we will need to complete the fit-out and conduct the move on schedule in order to complete the decommissioning of our existing facilities in cambridge, massachusetts in a timely manner. we expect that the move, even if executed on schedule, will cause disruptions to our business operations in massachusetts, including disruptions to our use of certain laboratories and other research and development facilities. our business operations could be materially harmed if the completion of the interior fit-out is significantly delayed, if the move does not proceed as scheduled or if the disruptions to our use of laboratories and other research and development facilities are more significant than expected. our business has a substantial risk of product liability claims. if we do not obtain appropriate levels of insurance, product liability claims could adversely affect our business. our business exposes us to significant potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, clinical testing, manufacturing and sales and marketing of human therapeutic products. we have product liability insurance and clinical trial insurance in amounts that we believe are adequate to cover this risk. however, our insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. if a claim is brought against us, we might be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as pay uncovered damages awards resulting from a claim brought successfully against us and these damages could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. furthermore, whether or not we are ultimately successful in defending any such claims, we might be required to direct significant financial and managerial resources to such defense and adverse publicity is likely to result. risks associated with operating in foreign countries could materially adversely affect our business. we have expanded our operations in canada in order to market incivek and kalydeco and in other international markets in order to market kalydeco. a significant portion of our commercial supply chain, including sourcing of raw materials and manufacturing, is located in china, japan and the european union. consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to risks related to operating in foreign countries. risks associated with conducting operations in foreign countries include: differing regulatory requirements for drug approvals and regulation of approved drugs in foreign countries; collectibility of accounts receivable; unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements; economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees living or traveling abroad; foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes; foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses or reduced revenues, and other obligations incident to doing business or operating in another country; 43 table of contents workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the united states; production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism. these and other risks associated with our international operations could materially adversely affect our business. in addition, our international operations are subject to regulation under u.s. law. for example, the foreign corrupt practices act prohibits u.s. companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad. in many countries, the health care professionals we regularly interact with may meet the definition of a foreign government official for purposes of the foreign corrupt practices act. we also are subject to import/export control laws. failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including the possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls, seizures, withdrawal of an approved product from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions, the prosecution of executives overseeing our international operations and corresponding bad publicity and negative perception of our company in foreign countries. if we acquire or license technologies, resources or drug candidates, we will incur a variety of costs and may never realize benefits from the transaction. if appropriate opportunities become available, we might license or acquire technologies, resources, drugs or drug candidates. we might never realize the anticipated benefits of such a transaction, and we may later incur impairment charges related to assets acquired in any such transaction. in particular, due to the risks inherent in drug development, we may not successfully develop or obtain marketing approval for the drug candidates we acquire. for example, we incurred a $105.8 million impairment charge in the third quarter of 2011 in connection with vx-759, which we obtained through our 2009 acquisition of virochem. future licenses or acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, the creation of contingent liabilities, impairment expenses related to goodwill, and impairment or amortization expenses related to other intangible assets, which could harm our financial condition. if we fail to attract and retain skilled employees, our business could be materially harmed. the number of our employees increased by approximately 10% during 2012 and approximately 18% during 2011 , and we are likely to experience additional growth in 2013. because our drug discovery and development activities are highly technical in nature, we require the services of highly qualified and trained scientists who have the skills necessary to conduct these activities. in addition, we need to attract and retain employees with experience in marketing and commercialization of medicines. we face intense competition for our personnel from our competitors and other companies throughout our industry. moreover, the growth of local biotechnology companies and the expansion of major pharmaceutical companies into the boston area have increased competition for the available pool of skilled employees, especially in technical fields, and the high cost of living in massachusetts makes it difficult to attract employees from other parts of the country to massachusetts. our ability to commercialize our products, and achieve our research and development objectives, depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands and expand our internal organization to accommodate anticipated growth. if we are unable to hire qualified personnel or manage our growth effectively, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. the loss of the services of key employees or the failure to effectively integrate key employees could negatively affect our business and future growth. our future success will depend in large part on our ability to retain the services of our key scientific and management personnel and to integrate new scientific and management personnel into our business. a loss of key personnel or a failure to properly integrate new personnel could be disruptive. we have entered into employment agreements with some executives and provide compensation-related benefits to all of our key employees that vest over time and therefore induce them to remain with us. however, the employment agreements can be terminated by the executive on relatively short notice. the value to employees of stock-related benefits that vest over time such as options and restricted stock is significantly affected by movements in our stock price, and may at any point in time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. a failure to retain, as well as hire, train and effectively integrate into our organization a sufficient 44 table of contents number of qualified scientists, professionals, sales personnel and senior management would negatively affect our business and our ability to grow our business. if we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected. our research and development efforts involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by state, federal and foreign regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials can not be eliminated. if an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. we also are subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. although we maintain workers' compensation insurance to cover us for costs we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. we maintain insurance to cover pollution conditions or other extraordinary or unanticipated events relating to our use and disposal of hazardous materials that we believe is appropriate based on the small amount of hazardous materials we generate. additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. we may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations. risks related to holding our common stock and potential financing activities our stock price may fluctuate. market prices for securities of companies such as ours are highly volatile. from january 1, 2011 to december 31, 2012, our common stock traded between $26.50 and $66.10 per share. the market for our stock, like that of other companies in the pharmaceuticals industry, has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. the future market price of our securities could be significantly and adversely affected by factors such as: the information contained in our quarterly earnings releases, including our net product revenues, royalty revenues and operating expenses for completed periods and guidance regarding future periods; prescription data and other information disclosed by third-parties regarding our business or products; announcements of fda actions with respect to our drugs or our competitors' drugs, or regulatory filings for our drug candidates or those of our competitors or of results of clinical trials or nonclinical studies relating to our drugs, drug candidates or those of our competitors; technological innovations or the introduction of new drugs by our competitors; government regulatory action; public concern as to the safety of drugs developed by us or our competitors; developments in patent or other intellectual property rights or announcements relating to these matters; developments in domestic and international governmental policy or regulation, for example relating to intellectual property rights; developments relating specifically to other companies and market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks or stocks in general; business development, capital structuring or financing activities; and general worldwide or national economic, political and capital market conditions. our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuation. our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past, and we expect that they will continue to do so in the future. factors that have caused quarterly fluctuations in the past include variable amounts of product revenues and 45 table of contents collaboration revenues, impairment charges, charges for excess and obsolete incivek inventories and changes in the fair value of derivative instruments. we cannot accurately predict our future revenues from our products, and our revenues from our products could vary on a quarterly basis. our revenues from our products, and in particular incivek, may be affected by, among other factors, seasonality and the timing of orders from our significant customers. our quarterly results also could be significantly affected by significant charges, which may or may not be similar to charges we have experienced in the past. most of our operating expenses relate to our research and development activities, do not vary directly with the amount of revenues and are difficult to adjust in the short term. as a result, if revenues in a particular quarter are below expectations, we are unlikely to proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter. these examples are only illustrative and other risks, including those discussed in these risk factors, could also cause fluctuations in our reported financial results. our operating results during any one period do not necessarily suggest the results of future periods. we expect that results from our clinical development activities and the clinical development activities of our competitors will continue to be released periodically, and may result in significant volatility in the price of our common stock. any new information regarding our products and drug candidates or competitive products or potentially competitive drug candidates can substantially affect investors' perceptions regarding our future prospects. we, our collaborators and our competitors periodically provide updates regarding drug development programs, typically through press releases, conference calls and presentations at medical conferences. these periodic updates often include interim or final results from clinical trials conducted by us or our competitors and/or information about our or our competitors' expectations regarding regulatory filings and submissions as well as future clinical development of our products or drug candidates, competitive products or potentially competitive drug candidates. the timing of the release of information by us regarding our drug development programs is often beyond our control and is influenced by the timing of receipt of data from our clinical trials and by the general preference among pharmaceutical companies to disclose clinical data during medical conferences. in addition, the information disclosed about our clinical trials, or our competitors' clinical trials, may be based on interim rather than final data that may involve interpretation difficulties and may in any event not accurately predict final results. we could be negatively affected by securities class action complaints. on september 6, 2012, a purported securities class action lawsuit was commenced in the united states district court for the district of massachusetts under the caption city of bristol pension fund v. vertex pharmaceuticals incorporated, et al. , naming as defendants us and certain of our current and former officers and directors. the lawsuit alleges that we made material misrepresentations and/or omissions of material fact in our public disclosures during the period from may 7, 2012 through june 28, 2012, all in violation of section 10(b) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, and rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder. by order dated december 12, 2012, the court appointed the city of bristol lead plaintiff and appointed the city of bristol's attorneys lead counsel. the plaintiffs filed an amended complaint on february 11, 2013. the plaintiffs seek unspecified monetary damages on behalf of the putative class and an award of costs and expenses, including attorney's fees, as well as disgorgement of the proceeds from certain individual defendants' sales of our common stock. we believe that this action is without merit and intend to defend it vigorously. this action will take time and money to defend and may distract us from more productive activities. no assurance can be provided that we will be successful in defending this claim or that insurance proceeds will be sufficient to cover any liability under such claims. we may need to raise additional capital that may not be available. although we do not have any plans to do so in the near term, we may in the future need to raise additional capital. any potential public offering or private placement may or may not be similar to the transactions that we have completed in the past. any debt financing may be on terms that, among other things, include conversion features that could result in dilution to our then-existing security holders and restrict our ability to pay interest and dividends although we do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. any equity financings would result in dilution to our then-existing security holders. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be required to curtail significantly or discontinue one or more of our research, drug discovery or development programs, including clinical trials, incur significant cash exit costs, or attempt to obtain funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, drugs or drug candidates. based on many factors, including general economic conditions, additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. 46 table of contents outstanding indebtedness may make it more difficult to obtain additional financing or reduce our flexibility to act in our best interests. we are obligated to repay an aggregate of $400.0 million for our convertible senior subordinated notes due 2015, or 2015 notes, no later than october 1, 2015. we also are obligated to make semi-annual interest payments on the outstanding principal amount of the 2015 notes. we may issue additional convertible debt or incur other types of indebtedness in the future. the level of our indebtedness could affect us by: making it more difficult to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; shortening the duration of available revolving credit because lenders may seek to avoid conflicting maturity dates; constraining our ability to react quickly in an unfavorable economic climate or to changes in our business or the pharmaceutical industry; or potentially requiring the dedication of substantial amounts to service the repayment of outstanding debt, including periodic interest payments, thereby reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes. issuances of additional shares of our common stock could cause the price of our common stock to decline. as of december 31, 2012 , we had 217.3 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. as of december 31, 2012 , we also had outstanding options to purchase 19.7 million shares of common stock with a weighted-average exercise price of $38.09 per share and 8.2 million shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of our 2015 notes, at a conversion price of approximately $48.83 per share. outstanding vested options are likely to be exercised if the market price of our common stock exceeds the applicable exercise price, and, in the future, we expect to issue additional options and restricted stock to directors and employees. in addition, we may issue additional common stock or restricted securities in the future as part of financing activities or business development activities and any such issuances may have a dilutive effect on existing shareholders. sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market, or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. in addition, the issuance of restricted common stock or common stock upon exercise of any outstanding options would be dilutive, and may cause the market price for a share of our common stock to decline. we have adopted anti-takeover provisions and are subject to massachusetts corporate laws that may frustrate any attempt to remove or replace our current management or effectuate a business combination involving vertex. our corporate charter and by-law provisions and massachusetts state laws may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change of control of vertex that might be beneficial to us or our security holders. our charter provides for staggered terms for the members of the board of directors. our by-laws grant the directors a right to adjourn annual meetings of shareholders, and certain provisions of our by-laws may be amended only with an 80% shareholder vote. we may issue shares of any class or series of preferred stock in the future without shareholder approval and upon such terms as our board of directors may determine. the rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any class or series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. massachusetts state law prohibits us from engaging in specified business combinations, unless the combination is approved or consummated in a prescribed manner, and prohibits voting by any shareholder who acquires 20% or more of our voting stock without shareholder approval. as a result, shareholders or other parties may find it more difficult to remove or replace our current management. special note regarding forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k and, in particular, the description of our business set forth in item 1, the risk factors set forth in this item 1a and our management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations set forth in item 7 contain or incorporate a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding: 47 table of contents expectations regarding the amount of, timing of and trends with respect to our revenues, costs and expenses and other gains and losses, including those related to net product revenues from sales of incivek and kalydeco and royalty revenues from net sales of incivo and to the intangible assets associated with the virochem acquisition and the alios collaboration; our expectations regarding clinical trials, development timelines and regulatory authority filings and submissions for telaprevir, ivacaftor, vx-135, vx-222, vx-509, vx-661, vx-787 and vx-809; our expectations regarding the timing of data from our clinical trials of ivacaftor monotherapy and vx-809 in combination with ivacaftor, the possibility of using that data to support regulatory submissions and the timing of those potential submissions; our ability to successfully market incivek and/or kalydeco or any of our other drug candidates if we obtain regulatory approval; our expectations regarding the timing and structure of clinical trials of our drugs and drug candidates, including telaprevir, ivacaftor, vx-135, vx-222, vx-509, vx-661, vx-787 and vx-809, and the expected timing of our receipt of data from our ongoing and planned clinical trials; the data that will be generated by ongoing and planned clinical trials and the ability to use that data to support regulatory filings; our beliefs regarding the support provided by clinical trials and preclinical and nonclinical studies of our drug candidates for further investigation, clinical trials or potential use as a treatment; the focus of our drug development efforts and our financial and management resources and our plan to continue investing in our research and development programs and our strategy to develop our drug candidates, alone or with third party-collaborators; the establishment, development and maintenance of collaborative relationships; potential business development activities; our ability to use our research programs to identify and develop new drug candidates to address serious diseases and significant unmet medical needs; our estimates regarding obligations associated with a lease of a facility in kendall square, cambridge, massachusetts; and our liquidity and our expectations regarding the possibility of raising additional capital. any or all of our forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k may turn out to be wrong. they can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. many factors mentioned in this annual report on form 10-k will be important in determining future results. consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. actual future results may vary materially from expected results. we also provide a cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties under risk factors above in this item 1a. these are factors and uncertainties that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results. other factors and uncertainties besides those listed there could also adversely affect us. without limiting the foregoing, the words believes, anticipates, plans, intends, expects and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. there are a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control, including the factors and uncertainties set forth under risk factors above in this item 1a. in addition, the forward-looking statements contained herein represent our estimate only as of the date of this filing and should not be relied upon as representing our estimate as of any subsequent date. while we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 73 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk as part of our investment portfolio, we own financial instruments that are sensitive to market risks. the investment portfolio is used to preserve our capital until it is required to fund operations, including our research and development activities. none of these market risk-sensitive instruments are held for trading purposes. we do not have derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. interest rate risk we invest our cash in a variety of financial instruments, principally securities issued by the united states government and its agencies, investment grade corporate bonds and commercial paper, and money market funds. these investments are denominated in u.s. dollars. all of our interest-bearing securities are subject to interest rate risk and could decline in value if interest rates fluctuate. substantially all of our investment portfolio consists of marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to help ensure portfolio liquidity, and we have implemented guidelines limiting the term-to-maturity of our investment instruments. due to the conservative nature of these instruments, we do not believe that we have a material exposure to interest rate risk. foreign exchange market risk as a result of our foreign operations, we face exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the euro, swiss franc, british pound and canadian dollar against the u.s. dollar. the current exposures arise primarily from cash, accounts receivable, intercompany receivables, payables and inventories, and calculations of royalties receivable from net sales denominated in foreign currencies. both positive and negative affects to our net revenues from international product sales from movements in foreign currency exchange rates are partially mitigated by the natural, opposite affect that foreign currency exchange rates have on our international operating expenses. we are considering a foreign currency management program with the objective of reducing the volatility of exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results and to increase the visibility of the foreign exchange impact on forecasted revenues.risk factors 30 risk factors risk factors investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk, and you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k. if any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer, possibly materially. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. risks related to our business we are investing significant resources in our development program for lumacaftor (vx-809) in combination with ivacaftor and, if the results of clinical trials of this combination therapy, the anticipated or actual timing of marketing approvals for this combination therapy, or the market acceptance of this combination therapy, if approved, including treatment reimbursement levels agreed to by third-party payors, are unfavorable or do not meet the expectations of investors or public market analysts, our business will be materially harmed and the market price of our common stock would likely decline. we are investing significant resources in our development program for lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor as a potential treatment for patients with cf who have two copies (homozygous) of the f508del mutation in their cftr gene. in february 2013, we initiated the phase 3 clinical development program for lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor. we initiated this program based primarily on data from a phase 2 clinical trial in which a relatively small number of patients received lumacaftor as a monotherapy for 28 days, followed by lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor for 28 days. the pattern of lung function response observed in both cohort 2 and cohort 3 of our phase 2 clinical trial was similar, with a decline in fev 1 during the lumacaftor monotherapy dosing period followed by a statistically significant increase in fev 1 during the lumacaftor and ivacaftor combination dosing period. in addition, the increase in fev 1 observed in our phase 2 clinical trial of lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor was less than the increase in fev 1 observed in comparable phase 2 clinical trials of ivacaftor in patients with cf who have one copy of the g551d mutation in their cftr gene. we have enrolled approximately 550 patients with cf who are homozygous for the f508del mutation in each of the two phase 3 clinical trials evaluating lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor, which are referred to as traffic and transport, for a total of approximately 1,100 patients. we expect that we will obtain data from this phase 3 clinical development program in mid-2014. in traffic and transport, lumacaftor is being evaluated in combination with ivacaftor over a significantly longer dosing period of 24 weeks and without the monotherapy lead-in period that was part of the phase 2 clinical trial. in order to obtain approval for lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor, we will need to show that lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor is safe and effective in a significantly larger number of patients than were involved in the phase 2 clinical trial, over the significantly longer 24-week combination dosing period. if the data from our ongoing clinical trials or non-clinical studies of lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor regarding the safety or efficacy of this combination are not favorable, the fda and comparable foreign regulatory authorities may not approve this combination regimen and/or we may be forced to delay or terminate the development of this combination regimen, which would materially harm our business. further, even if we gain marketing approvals for this combination therapy from the fda and comparable foreign regulatory authorities in a timely manner, we cannot be sure that this combination therapy will be commercially successful. if the results of traffic and transport, the anticipated or actual timing of marketing approvals for this combination therapy, or the market acceptance of this combination therapy, if approved, including treatment reimbursement levels agreed to by third-party payors, do not meet the expectations of investors or public market analysts, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. we expect to incur future losses, and we may not become profitable in future periods. over the past three years a majority of our revenues have been due to sales of incivek. as a result of declines in incivek revenues, we expect to incur a significant operating loss in 2014 and expect to continue to incur operating losses until we are able to substantially increase product revenues from the sale of therapies for the treatment of cf. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in expanding the label for ivacaftor or obtaining approval for lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor. our net losses will have an adverse effect on, among other things, our shareholders' equity, total assets and working capital. we expect that losses will fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year, and that such fluctuations may be substantial. we cannot predict when we will become profitable, if ever. 30 our future revenues from kalydeco are dependent, among other factors, on the outcomes of reimbursement discussions in international markets, our ongoing clinical trials and discussions with regulatory authorities regarding the potential for ivacaftor as a treatment for additional patient populations. in 2012, we obtained approval to market kalydeco (ivacaftor) for the treatment of patients with cf six years of age and older with the g551d mutation in the cftr gene. ince its approval in the first quarter of 2012, most patients six years of age and older in the united states and europe who have the g551d mutation in the cftr gene have started treatment with kalydeco. we are in discussions with relevant agencies in australia and canada regarding public reimbursement for the cost of kalydeco for patients with cf six years of age and older in these countries who have the g551d mutation in their cftr gene. there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain, or obtain on a timely basis, appropriate reimbursement for kalydeco in these international markets. in order to expand the market for ivacaftor, we need to demonstrate that ivacaftor is safe and effective in additional patient populations. we submitted an snda to the fda and an maa variation in the european union in september 2013 and october 2013, respectively, seeking approval to market ivacaftor for the treatment of patients with cf six years of age and older who have specified other mutations in their cftr gene. these submissions incorporated clinical data from our first ivacaftor label-expansion phase 3 clinical trial. in december 2013, we announced data from a phase 3 clinical trial evaluating ivacaftor as a potential treatment for patients with cf who have the r117h mutation in their cftr gene. this clinical trial did not meet its primary endpoint. however, we believe that a pre-specified subgroup analysis demonstrated a clinical benefit for patients 18 years of age and older with cf who have the r117h mutation on at least one allele. we plan to meet with the fda in early 2014 to discuss these results and the potential submission of an snda for patients with cf who have the r117h mutation on at least one allele. we also are conducting a phase 3 clinical trial to evaluate ivacaftor as a potential treatment for patients two to five years of age with cf who have specific mutations in their cftr gene and a phase 2 clinical trial to evaluate ivacaftor in patients with cf who have residual cftr function. these clinical trials and our discussions with regulatory authorities are subject to the same risks and uncertainties that are described in these risk factors with respect to the development of our drug candidates. there can be no assurance that the results from our clinical trials of ivacaftor or the data included in our submissions to regulatory authorities will be sufficient to obtain approval for use of ivacaftor in patients with other mutations in their cftr gene or in any children two to five years of age with cf. if our competitors bring drugs with superior product profiles to market, our drugs may not be competitive and our revenues could decline. kalydeco and any drugs we develop in the future may not be able to compete effectively with marketed drugs or new drugs that may be developed by competitors. there are many other companies developing drugs for the same indications that we are pursuing. in order to compete successfully in these areas, we must demonstrate improved safety, efficacy and/or tolerability, and ease of manufacturing, and gain and maintain market acceptance over competing drugs. many of our competitors, including major pharmaceutical companies such as abbvie, bristol-myers squibb, gilead, johnson &amp; johnson, merck, novartis, pfizer, sanofi and roche, possess substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we possess. a number of companies are seeking to identify and develop drug candidates for the treatment of cf, including novartis, pfizer, genzyme, which is a division of sanofi, and several private companies. our competitors have research and development programs directed at identifying cftr potentiators, cftr correctors and drug candidates with other mechanisms of action that seek to address the underlying cause of cf, and our success in rapidly developing and commercializing kalydeco may increase the resources that our competitors allocate to the development of these potential treatments for cf. while we do not believe that any of these competitive programs have entered late-stage clinical development, if one or more competing therapies are successfully developed as a treatment for patients with cf, our revenues from kalydeco and/or other compounds, if then approved, could face competitive pressures. we are aware of a number of companies that are developing new treatments for hcv infection, including hcv nucleotide analogues, hcv protease inhibitors, non-nucleoside hcv polymerase inhibitors and hcv ns5a inhibitors. we expect that over the next several years several all-oral treatment treatment regimens for hcv infection will be approved in the united states and elsewhere in the world. due in part to these competitive factors, two drug candidates, vx-135 and vx-222, that we were developing as treatments for hcv infection became impaired in 2013 resulting in aggregate intangible asset impairment charges of $663.5 million . the commercial prospects for vx-135, if approved, will depend on, among 31 other factors, the efficacy, safety, tolerability and other characteristics of any combination therapy including vx-135 relative to existing and future treatments for hcv infection, and the clinical data obtained and timing of marketing approvals for drug candidates being developed by our competitors. if we develop an all-oral treatment regimen that includes vx-135, we expect that our all-oral treatment regimen would compete directly with several all-oral treatment regimens that were approved several years prior to the approval of any all-oral treatment regimen that includes vx-135. if we discover safety issues with any of our products or if we fail to comply with continuing u.s. and applicable foreign regulations, commercialization efforts for the product could be negatively affected, the approved product could lose its approval or sales could be suspended, and our business could be materially harmed. our products are subject to continuing regulatory oversight, including the review of additional safety information. drugs are more widely used by patients once approval has been obtained and therefore side-effects and other problems may be observed after approval that were not seen or anticipated, or were not as prevalent or severe, during pre-approval clinical trials or nonclinical studies. for example, in december 2012, we updated the incivek label in the united states to include a boxed warning stating that fatal and non-fatal serious skin reactions have been reported in patients taking incivek combination treatment. the subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a product could negatively affect commercial sales of the product, result in restrictions on the product or lead to the withdrawal of the product from the market. the reporting of adverse safety events involving our products or public speculation about such events could cause our stock price to decline or experience periods of volatility. if we or our collaborators fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we or our collaborators may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals for specific products, product recalls and seizures, operating restrictions and/or criminal prosecutions. in addition, the manufacturers we engage to make our products and the manufacturing facilities in which our products are made are subject to periodic review and inspection by the fda and foreign regulatory authorities. if problems are identified during the review or inspection of these manufacturers or manufacturing facilities, it could result in our inability to use the facility to make our product or a determination that inventories are not safe for commercial sale. if physicians, patients and third-party payors do not accept our drugs, we may be unable to generate significant revenues in future periods. our drugs may not gain or maintain market acceptance among physicians and patients. effectively marketing our products and any of our drug candidates, if approved, requires substantial efforts, both prior to launch and after approval. physicians may elect not to prescribe our drugs, and patients may elect not to request or take them, for a variety of reasons including: lower demonstrated efficacy, safety and/or tolerability compared to other drugs; prevalence and severity of adverse side-effects; lack of cost-effectiveness; lack of reimbursement availability from third-party payors; a decision to wait for the approval of other therapies in development that have significant perceived advantages over our drug; convenience and ease of administration; other potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; and ineffective marketing and/or distribution support. if our drugs fail to achieve or maintain market acceptance, we will not be able to generate significant revenues in future periods. 32 government and other third-party payors seek to contain costs of health care through legislative and other means. if they fail to provide coverage and adequate reimbursement rates for our products, our revenues will be harmed. in both domestic and foreign markets, our sales of products depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. third-party payors include government health programs such as medicare and medicaid in the united states and the national health care systems in many international markets, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. governments and other third-party payors seek to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means, and in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of therapeutic and other pharmaceutical products is subject to governmental control. for example, kalydeco has been approved in australia and canada, but we are still in discussions with relevant agencies regarding public reimbursement for the cost of kalydeco in these countries. in the united states, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental control. the aca requires discounts under the medicare drug benefit program and increases the rebates paid by pharmaceutical companies on drugs covered by medicaid. the aca also imposes an annual fee, which increases annually, on sales by branded pharmaceutical manufacturers. in addition, third-party payors attempt to contain health care costs by demanding price discounts or rebates and limiting both the types and variety of drugs that they will cover and the amounts that they will pay for drugs. as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our products. we might need to conduct post-marketing studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of our products or any other future products to such payors' satisfaction. such studies might require us to commit a significant amount of management's time and our financial and other resources. our products might not ultimately be considered cost-effective. adequate third-party reimbursement might not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. reimbursement rates vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost products that already are reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other products or services and may reflect budgetary constraints and/or imperfections in the data used to calculate these rates. net prices for products are reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs and privately-negotiated discounts. while we have implemented policies in an effort to comply with mandated reimbursement rates, the u.s. federal government, state governments and private payors frequently pursue actions against pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies alleging that the companies have overstated prices in order to inflate reimbursement rates. any such action could adversely affect the pricing of and revenues from our products. specialty pharmaceuticals are drugs that are prescribed by specialist physicians to treat rare or life-threatening conditions and typically address smaller patient populations. each of our products is a specialty pharmaceutical product, and our research and development programs are focused on developing additional specialty pharmaceutical products. the increasing availability and use of innovative specialty pharmaceuticals, combined with their relative higher cost as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products, is beginning to generate significant third-party payor interest in developing cost-containment strategies targeted to this sector. the increasing use of health technology assessments in markets around the world and the financial challenges faced by many governments may lead to significant adverse effects on our business. any legislation or regulatory changes or relaxation of laws that restrict imports of drugs from other countries also could reduce the net price we receive for our products. if we market any of our products in a manner that violates federal or state health care laws, including fraud and abuse laws, laws prohibiting off-label promotion, disclosure laws or other similar laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. we are subject to health care fraud and abuse laws, such as the federal false claims act and the anti-kickback provisions of the federal social security act, laws prohibiting off-label product promotion and other similar state and federal laws and regulations. while we have a corporate compliance program designed to actively identify, prevent and mitigate risk through the implementation of compliance policies and systems and the promotion of a culture of compliance, if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws our business could be materially harmed. the federal anti-kickback law prohibits knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the ordering, furnishing, arranging for or recommending of an item or service that is reimbursable, in whole or in part, by a federal health care program, such as medicare or medicaid. the federal statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between 33 pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, patients, purchasers and formulary managers on the other hand, and therefore constrains our marketing practices and our various service arrangements with physicians, including physicians who make clinical decisions to use our products. although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchasing or recommending may be subject to scrutiny or penalty if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in promotion for uses that the fda has not approved, known as off-label uses, that caused claims to be submitted to medicaid for non-covered off-label uses; and submitting inflated best price information to the medicaid rebate program. although physicians are permitted, based on their medical judgment, to prescribe products for indications other than those approved by the fda, manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products for such off-label uses. we market kalydeco for patients six years of age and older with cf who have the g551d mutation in their cftr gene and incivek for adults with genotype 1 hcv infection and provide promotional materials and training programs to physicians regarding the use of kalydeco and incivek in these patient populations. if the fda determines that our promotional materials, training or other activities constitute off-label promotion, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or other activities or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. it also is possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they believe that the alleged improper promotion led to the submission and payment of claims for an off-label use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. even if it is later determined we were not in violation of these laws, we may be faced with negative publicity, incur significant expenses defending our actions and have to divert significant management resources from other matters. also applicable to some of our practices is hipaa and its implementing regulations, which created federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program or making false statements relating to health care matters and which also imposes certain regulatory and contractual requirements regarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. the majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. in addition, certain states have laws governing the privacy of certain health information, which may differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by hipaa, complicating compliance efforts. sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a pharmaceutical manufacturer's products from reimbursement under government programs and criminal fines. even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could harm our business. in recent years, several states and localities have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, health care provider payments and other activities. additionally, as part of the aca, the federal government recently enacted the physician payment sunshine act provisions. the physician payment sunshine act provisions require pharmaceutical manufacturers to report annually to the secretary of hhs payments or other transfers of value made by that entity to physicians and teaching hospitals. in february 2013, regulations were released that contain detailed guidance regarding the information that must be collected and reported. we were required to begin collecting information regarding such payments starting in august 2013 and will be required to begin reporting such information in march 2014. we are dedicating significant resources to enhance our systems and processes in order to comply with these regulations. failure to comply with the reporting requirements would result in significant civil monetary penalties. the aca also includes various provisions designed to strengthen significantly fraud and abuse enforcement, such as increased funding for enforcement efforts and the lowering of the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback statute and criminal health 34 care fraud statute such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. if our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any such laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from federal health care programs and/or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. the risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are subject to a variety of interpretations. any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. the sales and marketing practices of our industry have been the subject of increased scrutiny from federal and state government agencies, and we believe that this trend will continue. we have in place policies to govern how we may retain health care professionals as consultants that reflect the current climate on this issue and are providing training on these policies. any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, also could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. changes in health care systems could hinder or prevent commercial success of our products and drug candidates. the united states federal government and other governments are pursuing various changes in the health care system. any government-adopted measures could adversely affect the pricing of health care products, including our approved products and/or any future drug candidates approved for sale. the continuing efforts of governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors for health care products to contain or reduce health care costs may adversely affect our ability to set prices we believe are fair for our products or any drugs we may develop and commercialize. new laws, regulations and judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations and decisions, relating to health care availability, methods of delivery or payment for drugs, or sales, marketing or pricing, may limit our potential revenues, and we may need to revise our research and development or commercialization programs. the pricing and reimbursement environment may change in the future and become more challenging for any of several reasons, including policies advanced by the u.s. government or foreign governments, new health care legislation or fiscal challenges faced by government health administration authorities. specifically, in the united states and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals and initiatives to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell products. some of these proposed and implemented reforms have resulted, or could result, in reduced reimbursement rates for our current or future products, which would adversely affect our business, operations and financial results. the aca has far-reaching consequences for biopharmaceutical companies like us. as a result of this legislation, substantial changes are being made to the current system for paying for health care in the united states, including changes made in order to extend medical benefits to those who would otherwise lack health insurance coverage. if reimbursement for our products is substantially less than we expect in the future, or rebate obligations associated with them are substantially increased, our business could be materially and adversely affected. further federal and state proposals and health care reforms in and outside of the united states could limit the prices that can be charged for our products and may further limit our commercial opportunity. our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the aca, by the medicare prescription drug coverage legislation, by the possible effect of such current or future legislation on amounts that private insurers will pay and by other health care reforms that may be enacted or adopted in the future. risks related to development, clinical testing and regulation of our products and drug candidates our drug candidates remain subject to clinical testing and regulatory approval. if we are unable to successfully develop additional drug candidates, our business will be materially harmed. our business depends upon the successful development and commercialization of additional drug candidates. these drug candidates are in various stages of development and must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before they can be approved for sale by the fda or comparable foreign regulatory authorities. to satisfy these standards, we must allocate resources among our various development programs and must engage in expensive and lengthy testing of our drug candidates. discovery and development efforts for new pharmaceutical products, including new combination therapies, are resource-intensive and may take 10 to 15 years or longer for each drug candidate. despite our efforts, our drug candidates may not: 35 offer therapeutic or other improvement over existing competitive drugs; be proven safe and effective in clinical trials; meet applicable regulatory standards; be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs; or if approved for commercial sale, be successfully marketed as pharmaceutical products. we have ongoing or planned clinical trials for ivacaftor, ivacaftor in combination with lumacaftor and ivacaftor in combination with vx-661. the strength of our company's product portfolio and pipeline will depend in large part upon the outcomes of these clinical trials and our ability to develop combination treatments for cf that include ivacaftor in combination with (i) lumacaftor or vx-661 and/or (ii) a next-generation cftr corrector compound. results of our clinical trials and findings from our nonclinical studies, including toxicology findings in nonclinical studies conducted concurrently with clinical trials, could lead to abrupt changes in our development activities, including the possible cessation of development activities associated with a particular drug candidate or program. furthermore, results from our clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the fda or other regulatory authorities for approval of a drug candidate. many companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including us, have suffered significant setbacks in later-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in earlier-stage clinical trials. accordingly, the results from completed preclinical studies and clinical trials may not be replicated in later clinical trials, and ongoing clinical trials for our drug candidates may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later-stage clinical trials or of the likelihood of approval of a drug candidate for commercial sale. in addition, from time to time we report interim data from our clinical trials. interim data from a clinical trial may not be predictive of final results from the clinical trial. we are planning to develop co-formulated lumacaftor/ivacaftor using a continuous manufacturing process, and any failure to establish and validate our manufacturing process could adversely affect our ability to obtain approval for and launch lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor. we are planning to use a continuous manufacturing process to manufacture co-formulated lumacaftor/ivacaftor tablets. continuous process manufacturing connects the processes used in traditional batch manufacturing and uses on-line monitoring in order to increase control of the manufacturing process. we have not previously designed, implemented or utilized a continuous manufacturing process to produce commercial quantities of a pharmaceutical product and believe that we would be the first company to seek approval for an nda or an maa using this method of manufacturing. as a result, there is a risk that we will encounter technical difficulties in the design, implementation or use of our continuous manufacturing process for the manufacture of co-formulated lumacaftor/ivacaftor that we will not be able to overcome, or overcome in a timely manner. in addition, it may be more difficult to satisfy regulators that our process is capable of consistently producing commercial quantities of co-formulated lumacaftor/ivacaftor and that our methods for testing the quality, purity and potency of the final products are sufficient. we also initially plan to primarily rely on a single validated third-party source to produce lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor, and to use the new manufacturing facility we are establishing as a secondary source. our continuous manufacturing process will be subject to inspections by or under the authority of the fda and by or under the authority of other federal, state and foreign regulatory authorities. any failure to establish and validate our continuous manufacturing process for co-formulated lumacaftor/ivacaftor or any disruption in our supply chain could increase costs or adversely affect our ability to launch lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor in a timely manner. in addition, there can be no assurance that if we fail, or encounter delays with respect to our continuous manufacturing process of lumacaftor/ivacaftor, that we will be able to establish and validate, or establish and validate in a timely manner, a non-continuous manufacturing process to manufacture lumacaftor/ivacaftor. if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval, we will be unable to commercialize our drug candidates. our drug candidates are subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to their development, clinical evaluation, manufacturing and commercialization. rigorous nonclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory approval process are required in the united states and in most other countries prior to the commercial sale of drug candidates. satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time-consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. it is possible that none of the drug candidates we are developing will be approved for marketing. 36 the time required to complete clinical trials and to satisfy the fda and other countries' regulatory review processes is uncertain and typically takes many years. our analysis of data obtained from nonclinical and clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. we also may encounter unanticipated delays or increased costs due to government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in governmental policy during the period of drug development, clinical trials and governmental regulatory review. any failure to obtain regulatory approvals for a drug candidate would prevent us from commercializing that drug candidate. any delay in obtaining required regulatory approvals could materially adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize a drug candidate. furthermore, any regulatory approval to market a drug may be subject to limitations that we do not expect on the indicated uses for which we may market the drug. any such limitations could reduce the size of the market for the drug. we also are subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement. foreign jurisdictions have different approval procedures than those required by the fda, and these jurisdictions may impose additional testing requirements for our drug candidates. the foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with the fda approval process described above, as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of foreign requirements. approval by the fda does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities outside the united states and approval by a foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by the fda. in addition, the fda may not favorably consider data from clinical trials conducted in foreign jurisdictions. if clinical trials are prolonged or delayed, our development timelines for the affected development program could be extended, our costs to develop the drug candidate could increase and the competitive position of the drug candidate could be adversely affected. we cannot predict whether or not we will encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause us or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend clinical trials, or delay the analysis of data from our completed or ongoing clinical trials. any of the following could delay our development programs: ongoing discussions with the fda or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials and the number of clinical trials we must conduct; delays in enrolling volunteers or patients into clinical trials, including as a result of low numbers of patients that meet the eligibility criteria for the trial; a lower than anticipated retention rate of volunteers or patients in clinical trials; the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive results, unforeseen complications in testing or clinical investigator error; inadequate supply or deficient quality of drug candidate materials or other materials necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials; unfavorable fda or foreign regulatory authority inspection and review of a manufacturing facility that supplied clinical trial materials or its relevant manufacturing records or a clinical trial site or records of any clinical or preclinical investigation; unfavorable scientific results from clinical trials; serious and unexpected drug-related side-effects experienced by participants in our clinical trials or by participants in clinical trials being conducted by our competitors to evaluate drug candidates with similar mechanisms of action or structures to drug candidates that we are developing; favorable results in testing of our competitors' drug candidates, or fda or foreign regulatory authority approval of our competitors' drug candidates; or action by the fda or a foreign regulatory authority to place a clinical hold or partial clinical hold on a trial or compound. 37 our ability to enroll patients in our clinical trials in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis is subject to a number of factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the number of other clinical trials ongoing and competing for patients in the same indication and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. in addition, patients may drop out of our clinical trials or may be lost to follow-up medical evaluation after treatment ends, and this could impair the validity or statistical significance of the trials. delays in patient enrollment or unforeseen drop-out rates may result in increased costs and longer development times. we, our collaborators, the fda or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a drug candidate at any time if we or they believe the healthy volunteers or patients participating in such clinical trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. any such suspension could materially adversely affect the development of a particular drug candidate and our business. in july 2013, the fda placed our u.s. clinical trial evaluating vx-135, a drug candidate for the treatment of hcv infection, on partial clinical hold, and our business may be adversely affected if we cannot develop vx-135. we have a collaboration for the development of our hcv nucleotide analogue vx-135 as a potential treatment for hcv infection. in july 2013, the fda placed a partial clinical hold on our ongoing phase 2 clinical trial in the united states of vx-135 in combination with rbv in patients with genotype 1 hcv infection following observation of reversible elevated liver enzymes in patients who received 400 mg of vx-135 in combination with rbv in a phase 2 clinical trial in europe. until the partial clinical hold has been resolved, we cannot pursue further evaluation of vx-135 in the united states. there is no assurance that the fda will lift the partial clinical hold or that we will be able to successfully develop vx-135. if we are not able to develop vx-135, or if our progress in developing vx-135 continues to be slowed significantly, our business may be adversely affected. if our processes and systems are not compliant with regulatory requirements, we could be subject to restrictions on marketing our products or could be delayed in submitting regulatory filings seeking approvals for our drug candidates. we have a number of regulated processes and systems that are required to obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our drugs and drug candidates. these processes and systems are subject to continual review and periodic inspection by the fda and other regulatory bodies. if compliance issues are identified at any point in the development and approval process, we may experience delays in filing for regulatory approval for our drug candidates, or delays in obtaining regulatory approval after filing. any later discovery of previously unknown problems or safety issues with approved drugs or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in restrictions on such drugs or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of drugs from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal penalties or a refusal by the fda and/or other regulatory bodies to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we are a party to agreements that transfer responsibility for complying with specified regulatory requirements, such as filing and maintenance of marketing authorizations and safety reporting or compliance with manufacturing requirements, to our collaborators and third-party manufacturers. if our collaborators or third-party manufacturers do not fulfill these regulatory obligations, any drugs for which we or they obtain approval may be subject to later restrictions on manufacturing or sale, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. risks related to collaborators, manufacturing and reliance on third parties we face risks in connection with existing and future collaborations with respect to the development, manufacture and commercialization of our products and drug candidates. the risks that we face in connection with our current and any future collaborations include the following: our collaborators may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts or may have insufficient resources to effectively develop our drug candidates. the ability of some of our products and drug candidates to reach their potential could be limited if collaborators decrease or fail to increase development or commercialization efforts related to those products or drug candidates. any future collaboration agreements may have the effect of limiting the areas of research and development that we may pursue, either alone or in collaboration with third parties. 38 collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, drugs that are similar to or competitive with the drugs or drug candidates that are the subject of their collaborations with us. our collaboration agreements are subject to termination under various circumstances. we in-license vx-135 from alios, and any loss of this license would materially harm our efforts to develop an all-oral treatment regimen for hcv infection. we depend on third-party manufacturers, including a sole source manufacturer, to manufacture our products and the materials we require for our clinical trials. we may not be able to maintain these relationships and could experience supply disruptions outside of our control. we rely on a worldwide network of third-party manufacturers to manufacture and distribute kalydeco (ivacaftor) and incivek (telaprevir) for commercial sale, and our drug candidates for clinical trials. as a result of our reliance on these third-party manufacturers and suppliers, including a sole source supplier of one of our manufacturing processes, we could be subject to significant supply disruptions outside of our control. our supply chain for sourcing raw materials and manufacturing drug product ready for distribution is a multi-step international endeavor. third-party contract manufacturers, including some in china, supply us with raw materials, and contract manufacturers in the european union and the united states convert these raw materials into drug substance and convert the drug substance into final dosage form. establishing and managing this global supply chain requires a significant financial commitment and the creation and maintenance of numerous third-party contractual relationships. although we attempt to effectively manage the business relationships with companies in our supply chain, we do not have control over their operations. supply disruptions may result from a number of factors, including shortages in product raw materials, labor or technical difficulties, regulatory inspections or restrictions, shipping or customs delays or any other performance failure by any third-party manufacturer on which we rely. any supply disruptions could disrupt sales of our products and/or the timing of our clinical trials. furthermore, we may be required to modify our production methods to permit us to economically manufacture our drugs for sale and our drug candidates for clinical trials. these modifications may require us to re-evaluate our resources and the resources of our third-party manufacturers, which could result in abrupt changes in our production methods and supplies. we require a supply of ivacaftor for commercial sale (as kalydeco) and ivacaftor, lumacaftor and our other drug candidates for use in our clinical trials. we obtain ivacaftor and lumacaftor to meet our commercial and clinical supply needs through a third-party manufacturing network. our supply chain for kalydeco includes a sole source supplier for one of our manufacturing processes. a disruption in the commercial supply of kalydeco for patients would have a significant impact on patients, our business and our product revenues. a disruption in the clinical supply of ivacaftor or ivacaftor in combination with lumacaftor could delay the completion of clinical trials and impact timelines for filing an snda, nda and comparable foreign regulatory submissions. there can be no assurance that we will be able to establish a secondary manufacturer for all of our ivacaftor supply needs on a timely basis or at all. in the course of providing its services, a contract manufacturer may develop process technology related to the manufacture of our products or drug candidates that the manufacturer owns, either independently or jointly with us. this would increase our reliance on that manufacturer or require us to obtain a license from that manufacturer in order to have our products or drug candidates manufactured by other suppliers utilizing the same process. 39 we may not be able to attract collaborators or external funding for the development and commercialization of certain of our drug candidates. as part of our ongoing strategy, we may seek additional collaborative arrangements or external funding for certain of our development programs and/or seek to expand existing collaborations to cover additional commercialization and/or development activities. we have a number of research programs and early-stage clinical development programs, and we have entered into a non-exclusive collaboration agreement with bms to evaluate vx-135 in combination with daclatasvir. at any time, we may determine that in order to continue development of a drug candidate or program or successfully commercialize a drug we need to identify a collaborator or amend or expand an existing collaboration. potentially, and depending on the circumstances, we may desire that a collaborator either agree to fund portions of a drug development program led by us, or agree to provide all the funding and directly lead the development and commercialization of a program. no assurance can be given that any efforts we make to seek additional collaborative arrangements will be successfully completed on a timely basis or at all. if we are unable to enter into acceptable collaborative relationships, one or more of our development programs could be delayed or terminated and the possibility of our receiving a return on our investment in the program could be impaired. we rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such trials or regulatory requirements. we rely on third parties such as contract research organizations to help manage our clinical trial process and on medical institutions and clinical investigators to enroll qualified patients and conduct our clinical trials. our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. accordingly, these third-party contractors may not complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our trial design. if these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be required to replace them. although we believe that there are a number of other third-party contractors we could engage to continue these activities, it may result in a delay of the affected trial. if clinical trials are not conducted in accordance with our contractual expectations or regulatory requirements, action by regulatory authorities might significantly and adversely affect the conduct or progress of these trials or in specific circumstances might result in a requirement that a trial be redone. accordingly, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize our drug candidates could be delayed. risks related to intellectual property if our patents do not protect our drugs, or our drugs infringe third-party patents, we could be subject to litigation and substantial liabilities. we have numerous issued patents and patent applications pending in the united states, as well as counterparts in other countries. our success will depend, in significant part, on our ability to obtain and maintain u.s. and foreign patent protection for our drugs, their uses and our processes, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. in particular, we believe that composition-of-matter claims are the most significant patent claims for companies in our segment of the pharmaceutical industry, which focuses on small molecules that are new chemical compounds. while we have patents or patent applications with composition-of-matter claims for each of our products and clinical drug candidates, only a portion of these patents have been granted. we cannot be certain that any patents will issue from our patent applications or, even if patents issue or have issued, that the issued claims will provide us with any significant protection against competitive products or otherwise be valuable commercially. due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents, our ability to maintain, obtain and enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. u.s. and foreign patent applications typically are maintained in confidence for a period of time after they initially are filed with the applicable patent office. similarly, publication of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries. consequently, we cannot be certain that we or our licensors were the first to invent, or the first to file patent applications on, our products or drug candidates or their use. if a third party also has filed a u.s. patent application relating to our products or drug candidates or a similar invention, we may have to participate in interference proceedings to determine priority of invention and could lose our patent position. furthermore, we may not have identified all u.s. and foreign patents or published applications that affect our business by blocking our ability to commercialize our drugs or drug candidates. 40 our patents may be challenged by third parties, resulting in the patent being deemed invalid, unenforceable or narrowed in scope, or the third party may circumvent any such issued patents. also, our pending patent applications may not issue, and we may not receive any additional patents. our patents might not contain claims that are sufficiently broad to prevent others from utilizing our technologies. for instance, the issued patents relating to our products or drug candidates may be limited to a particular molecule or molecules and may not cover similar molecules that have similar clinical properties. consequently, our competitors may independently develop competing products that do not infringe our patents or other intellectual property. the laws of many foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the united states and many companies have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. if we encounter such difficulties in protecting or are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, our business could be substantially harmed. because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a drug candidate, it is possible that, before a drug candidate can be commercialized, the related patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization of such drug candidate, thereby reducing any advantages of the patent. to the extent our drug candidates are not commercialized significantly ahead of the expiration date of any applicable patent, or to the extent we have no other patent protection on such drug candidates, those drug candidates would not be protected by patents, and we would then rely solely on other forms of exclusivity, such as regulatory exclusivity provided by the fdca. risks related to our operations if we are unable to successfully implement our strategic plan, our business may be materially harmed. our strategy is to make focused investments to invent and develop innovative drugs, while we continue to market our products to eligible patients to generate revenues and maintain a strong financial position. we expect our total revenues to decline significantly in 2014 as compared to 2013 as a result of expected decreases in incivek and incivo revenues. while we are seeking to increase our revenues from kalydeco, we do not believe that in the near term these potential increased revenues will be sufficient to offset expected declines in incivek and incivo revenues. in order to maintain a strong financial position, we are focusing our investment on cf and advancing our other research and early-stage development programs. we may not be able increase or sustain our revenues from therapies for the treatment of cf, which would make it difficult to maintain a strong financial position and continue our research and development investments at the levels we currently plan. in addition, there can be no assurance that our development programs will be successful or that our research programs will result in drugs that we can successfully develop and commercialize. if we fail to manage our operations effectively, our business may suffer. we have expanded our global operations and capabilities, which has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational, research and development and financial infrastructure. to effectively manage our business, we need to: implement and clearly communicate our corporate-wide strategies; enhance our operational and financial infrastructure, including our controls over records and information; enhance our operational, financial and management processes, including our cross-functional decision-making processes and our budget prioritization systems; train and manage our global employee base; transition from a u.s.-centric company into an organization capable of developing and commercializing multiple drug candidates in international markets; and enhance our compliance and legal resources. 41 our transition to our new corporate headquarters in boston, massachusetts could materially disrupt our business operations. our transition to our new corporate headquarters in boston, massachusetts is complicated and requires us to expend significant logistical and financial resources in 2014. our corporate headquarters and primary research facilities were located in cambridge, massachusetts in close proximity to numerous other biotechnology companies since our founding in 1989. while we do not expect the move to result in significant turnover, we cannot be sure that we will be able to retain all our key scientific, commercial and management employees. we are conducting a staggered move of employees, office and laboratory supplies and certain equipment from our previous facilities to our new corporate headquarters. the transition may cause disruptions to our business operations in massachusetts, including disruptions to our use of certain laboratories and other research and development facilities that were not included in the january 2014 move of a majority of our employees. we also need to complete the decommissioning of our existing facilities in cambridge, massachusetts in a timely and cost-effective manner. our business operations could be materially harmed if the disruptions to our use of certain laboratories and other research and development facilities are more significant than expected. our business has a substantial risk of product liability claims. if we do not obtain appropriate levels of insurance, product liability claims could adversely affect our business. our business exposes us to significant potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, clinical testing, manufacturing and sales and marketing of human therapeutic products. we have product liability insurance and clinical trial insurance in amounts that we believe are adequate to cover this risk. however, our insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. if a claim is brought against us, we might be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as pay uncovered damages awards resulting from a claim brought successfully against us and these damages could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. furthermore, whether or not we are ultimately successful in defending any such claims, we might be required to direct significant financial and managerial resources to such defense and adverse publicity is likely to result. risks associated with operating in foreign countries could materially adversely affect our business. we have expanded our international operations over the past several years in order to market kalydeco and expand our research and development capabilities. in 2013, a substantial portion of our revenues and expenses were associated with our foreign operations. in addition, a significant portion of our commercial supply chain, including sourcing of raw materials and manufacturing, is located in china, japan and the european union. consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to risks related to operating in foreign countries. risks associated with conducting operations in foreign countries include: differing regulatory requirements for drug approvals and regulation of approved drugs in foreign countries; collectibility of accounts receivable; unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements; economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees living or traveling abroad; foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes; foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses or reduced revenues, and other obligations incident to doing business or operating in another country; workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the united states; production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism. 42 these and other risks associated with our international operations could materially adversely affect our business. in addition, our international operations are subject to regulation under u.s. law. for example, the foreign corrupt practices act prohibits u.s. companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad. in many countries, the health care professionals we regularly interact with may meet the definition of a foreign government official for purposes of the foreign corrupt practices act. we also are subject to import/export control laws. failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including the possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls, seizures, withdrawal of an approved product from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions, the prosecution of executives overseeing our international operations and corresponding bad publicity and negative perception of our company in foreign countries. if we acquire or license technologies, resources or drug candidates, we will incur a variety of costs and may never realize benefits from the transaction. if appropriate opportunities become available, we might license or acquire technologies, resources, drugs or drug candidates. we might never realize the anticipated benefits of such a transaction, and we may later incur impairment charges related to assets acquired in any such transaction. in particular, due to the risks inherent in drug development, we may not successfully develop or obtain marketing approval for the drug candidates we acquire. for example, in 2013 we incurred intangible asset impairment charges of $663.5 million relating to drug candidates for the treatment of hcv infection. future licenses or acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, the creation of contingent liabilities, impairment expenses related to goodwill, and impairment or amortization expenses related to other intangible assets, which could harm our financial condition. if we fail to attract and retain skilled employees, our business could be materially harmed. because our drug discovery and development activities are highly technical in nature, we require the services of highly qualified and trained scientists who have the skills necessary to conduct these activities. in addition, we need to attract and retain employees with experience in marketing and commercialization of medicines. we face intense competition for our personnel from our competitors and other companies throughout our industry. moreover, the growth of local biotechnology companies and the expansion of major pharmaceutical companies into the boston area have increased competition for the available pool of skilled employees, especially in technical fields, and the high cost of living in massachusetts makes it difficult to attract employees from other parts of the country to massachusetts. in addition, our october 2013 restructuring activities may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified employees. our ability to commercialize our products, and achieve our research and development objectives, depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands. if we are unable to hire and retain qualified personnel, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. the loss of the services of key employees or the failure to effectively integrate key employees could negatively affect our business. our future success will depend in large part on our ability to retain the services of our key scientific and management personnel and to integrate new scientific and management personnel into our business. a loss of key personnel or a failure to properly integrate new personnel could be disruptive. we have entered into employment agreements with some executives and provide compensation-related benefits to all of our key employees that vest over time and therefore induce them to remain with us. however, the employment agreements can be terminated by the executive on relatively short notice. the value to employees of stock-related benefits that vest over time such as options and restricted stock is significantly affected by movements in our stock price, and may at any point in time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. a failure to retain, as well as hire, train and effectively integrate into our organization a sufficient number of qualified scientists, professionals, sales personnel and senior management would negatively affect our business. if we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected. our research and development efforts involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by state, federal and foreign regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials can not be eliminated. if an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. we also are subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including 43 those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. although we maintain workers' compensation insurance to cover us for costs we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. we maintain insurance to cover pollution conditions or other extraordinary or unanticipated events relating to our use and disposal of hazardous materials that we believe is appropriate based on the small amount of hazardous materials we generate. additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. we may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations. risks related to holding our common stock and potential financing activities our stock price may fluctuate. market prices for securities of companies such as ours are highly volatile. from january 1, 2012 to december 31, 2013, our common stock traded between $32.04 and $89.96 per share. the market for our stock, like that of other companies in the biotechnology industry, has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. the future market price of our securities could be significantly and adversely affected by factors such as: the information contained in our quarterly earnings releases, including our net product revenues and operating expenses for completed periods and guidance regarding future periods; announcements of fda actions with respect to our drugs or our competitors' drugs, or regulatory filings for our drug candidates or those of our competitors, or of results of clinical trials or nonclinical studies relating to our drugs, drug candidates or those of our competitors; prescription data and other information disclosed by third-parties regarding our business or products; technological innovations or the introduction of new drugs by our competitors; government regulatory action; public concern as to the safety of drugs developed by us or our competitors; developments in patent or other intellectual property rights or announcements relating to these matters; developments in domestic and international governmental policy or regulation, for example, relating to intellectual property rights; developments relating specifically to other companies and market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks or stocks in general; business development, capital structuring or financing activities; and general worldwide or national economic, political and capital market conditions. our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuation. our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past, and we expect that they will continue to do so in the future. factors that have caused quarterly fluctuations in the past include variable amounts of net product revenues and collaborative revenues, impairment charges, charges for excess and obsolete inventories, changes in the fair value of derivative instruments and the deconsolidation of alios. we cannot accurately predict our future revenues from our products, and our revenues from our products could vary on a quarterly basis. our revenues from our products may be affected by, among other factors, seasonality and the timing of orders from our significant customers. our quarterly results also could be significantly affected by significant charges, which may or may not be similar to charges we have experienced in the past. most of our operating expenses relate to our research and development activities, do not vary directly with the amount of revenues and are difficult to adjust in the short term. as a result, if revenues in a particular quarter are below expectations, we are unlikely to proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter. these examples are only illustrative and other risks, including those discussed in these risk factors, could also cause fluctuations in our reported financial results. our operating results during any one period do not necessarily suggest the results of future periods. 44 we expect that results from our clinical development activities and the clinical development activities of our competitors will continue to be released periodically, and may result in significant volatility in the price of our common stock. any new information regarding our products and drug candidates or competitive products or potentially competitive drug candidates can substantially affect investors' perceptions regarding our future prospects. we, our collaborators and our competitors periodically provide updates regarding drug development programs, typically through press releases, conference calls and presentations at medical conferences. these periodic updates often include interim or final results from clinical trials conducted by us or our competitors and/or information about our or our competitors' expectations regarding regulatory filings and submissions as well as future clinical development of our products or drug candidates, competitive products or potentially competitive drug candidates. the timing of the release of information by us regarding our drug development programs is often beyond our control and is influenced by the timing of receipt of data from our clinical trials and by the general preference among pharmaceutical companies to disclose clinical data during medical conferences. in addition, the information disclosed about our clinical trials, or our competitors' clinical trials, may be based on interim rather than final data that may involve interpretation difficulties and may in any event not accurately predict final results. we could be negatively affected by securities class action complaints. on september 6, 2012, a purported securities class action lawsuit was commenced in the united states district court for the district of massachusetts under the caption city of bristol pension fund v. vertex pharmaceuticals incorporated, et al. , naming as defendants us and certain of our current and former officers and directors. the lawsuit alleges that we made material misrepresentations and/or omissions of material fact in our public disclosures during the period from may 7, 2012 through june 28, 2012, all in violation of section 10(b) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, and rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder. by order dated december 12, 2012, the court appointed the city of bristol lead plaintiff and appointed the city of bristol's attorneys lead counsel. the plaintiffs filed an amended complaint on february 11, 2013. we filed a motion to dismiss the complaint on april 12, 2013. on may 28, 2013, the plaintiffs filed an opposition to our motion to dismiss the complaint. on june 27, 2013, we filed a reply in further support of our motion to dismiss the plaintiffs' complaint. the court conducted a hearing on our motion to dismiss on november 25, 2013. the plaintiffs seek unspecified monetary damages on behalf of the putative class and an award of costs and expenses, including attorney's fees, as well as disgorgement of the proceeds from certain individual defendants' sales of our common stock. we believe that this action is without merit and intend to defend it vigorously. this action will take time and money to defend and may distract us from more productive activities. no assurance can be provided that we will be successful in defending this claim or that insurance proceeds will be sufficient to cover any liability under such claims. we may need to raise additional capital that may not be available. we expect to incur significant losses in 2014 and, although we do not have any plans to do so in the near term, we may in the future need to raise additional capital. any potential public offering or private placement may or may not be similar to the transactions that we have completed in the past. any debt financing may be on terms that, among other things, include conversion features that could result in dilution to our then-existing security holders and restrict our ability to pay interest and dividends although we do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. any equity financings would result in dilution to our then-existing security holders. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be required to curtail significantly or discontinue one or more of our research, drug discovery or development programs, including clinical trials, incur significant cash exit costs, or attempt to obtain funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, drugs or drug candidates. based on many factors, including general economic conditions, additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. issuances of additional shares of our common stock could cause the price of our common stock to decline. as of december 31, 2013 , we had 233.8 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. as of december 31, 2013 , we also had outstanding options to purchase 15.7 million shares of common stock with a weighted-average exercise price of $44.40 per share. outstanding vested options are likely to be exercised if the market price of our common stock exceeds the applicable exercise price, and, in the future, we expect to issue additional options and restricted stock to directors and employees. in addition, we may issue additional common stock or restricted securities in the future as part of financing activities or business development activities and any such issuances may have a dilutive effect on our then-existing shareholders. sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market, or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. the issuance of restricted common stock or common stock upon 45 exercise of any outstanding options would be dilutive, and may cause the market price for a share of our common stock to decline. we have adopted anti-takeover provisions and are subject to massachusetts corporate laws that may frustrate any attempt to remove or replace our current management or effectuate a business combination involving vertex. our corporate charter and by-law provisions and massachusetts state laws may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change of control of vertex that might be beneficial to us or our security holders. our charter provides for staggered terms for the members of the board of directors. our by-laws grant the directors a right to adjourn annual meetings of shareholders, and certain provisions of our by-laws may be amended only with an 80% shareholder vote. we may issue shares of any class or series of preferred stock in the future without shareholder approval and upon such terms as our board of directors may determine. the rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any class or series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. massachusetts state law prohibits us from engaging in specified business combinations, unless the combination is approved or consummated in a prescribed manner, and prohibits voting by any shareholder who acquires 20% or more of our voting stock without shareholder approval. as a result, shareholders or other parties may find it more difficult to remove or replace our current management. special note regarding forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k and, in particular, the description of our business set forth in item 1, the risk factors set forth in this item 1a and our management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations set forth in item 7 contain or incorporate a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding: our expectations regarding the amount of, timing of and trends with respect to our revenues, costs and expenses and other gains and losses, including those related to net product revenues from kalydeco and incivek; our expectations regarding clinical trials, development timelines and regulatory authority filings and submissions for ivacaftor, lumacaftor, vx-135 and vx-661; our expectations regarding the timing of data from our clinical trials of ivacaftor and lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor, the possibility of using that data to support regulatory submissions and the timing of those potential submissions; our ability to successfully market our products or any of our other drug candidates for which we obtain regulatory approval; our expectations regarding the timing and structure of clinical trials of our drugs and drug candidates, including, ivacaftor, lumacaftor, vx-135 and vx-661, and the expected timing of our receipt of data from our ongoing and planned clinical trials; the data that will be generated by ongoing and planned clinical trials and the ability to use that data to advance compounds, continue development or support regulatory filings; our beliefs regarding the support provided by clinical trials and preclinical and nonclinical studies of our drug candidates for further investigation, clinical trials or potential use as a treatment; our plan to continue investing in our research and development programs and our strategy to develop our drug candidates, alone or with third party-collaborators; the establishment, development and maintenance of collaborative relationships; potential business development activities; our estimates regarding the charges associated with our october 2013 workforce reduction and our other restructuring activities; 46 our ability to use our research programs to identify and develop new drug candidates to address serious diseases and significant unmet medical needs; and our liquidity and our expectations regarding the possibility of raising additional capital. any or all of our forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k may turn out to be wrong. they can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. many factors mentioned in this annual report on form 10-k will be important in determining future results. consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. actual future results may vary materially from expected results. we also provide a cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties under risk factors above in this item 1a. these are factors and uncertainties that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results. other factors and uncertainties besides those listed there could also adversely affect us. without limiting the foregoing, the words believes, anticipates, plans, intends, expects and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. there are a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control, including the factors and uncertainties set forth under risk factors above in this item 1a. in addition, the forward-looking statements contained herein represent our estimate only as of the date of this filing and should not be relied upon as representing our estimate as of any subsequent date. while we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 70 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk as part of our investment portfolio, we own financial instruments that are sensitive to market risks. the investment portfolio is used to preserve our capital until it is required to fund operations, including our research and development activities. none of these market risk-sensitive instruments are held for trading purposes. we do not have derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. interest rate risk we invest our cash in a variety of financial instruments, principally securities issued by the u.s. government and its agencies, investment-grade corporate bonds and commercial paper, and money market funds. these investments are denominated in u.s. dollars. all of our interest-bearing securities are subject to interest rate risk and could decline in value if interest rates fluctuate. substantially all of our investment portfolio consists of marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to help ensure portfolio liquidity, and we have implemented guidelines limiting the term-to-maturity of our investment instruments. due to the conservative nature of these instruments, we do not believe that we have a material exposure to interest rate risk. foreign exchange market risk as a result of our foreign operations, we face exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the euro, swiss franc, british pound, australian dollar and canadian dollar against the u.s. dollar. the current exposures arise primarily from cash, accounts receivable, intercompany receivables, payables and inventories. both positive and negative affects to our net revenues from international product sales from movements in foreign currency exchange rates are partially mitigated by the natural, opposite affect that foreign currency exchange rates have on our international operating costs and expenses. in december 2013, we implemented a foreign currency management program with the objective of reducing the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results and forecasted revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies. the change in fair value of these foreign currency forward contracts included in accumulated other comprehensive loss and the gross fair value of foreign currency forward assets and liabilities included on the consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2013 were not material.risk factors 24 risk factors risk factors investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk, and you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k. if any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer, possibly materially. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. risks related to our business our business and future net product revenues depend heavily on the success of lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor, which has not been approved by the fda or the european commission. if we are unable to obtain marketing approval for this combination therapy, if we experience material delays in receipt of marketing approval, or if reimbursement levels agreed to by third-party payors are unfavorable or do not meet the expectations of investors or public equity market analysts, our business will be materially harmed and the market price of our common stock would likely decline. we believe that a significant portion of the value attributed to our company by investors is based on the commercial potential of lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor. in november 2014, we submitted an nda in the united states and an maa in europe for this potential combination regimen. obtaining approval of an nda or an maa is a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process, and we may not be successful. obtaining marketing approval for the combination of lumacaftor and ivacaftor in one country or region does not ensure that we will be able to obtain marketing approval in any other country or region. obtaining approval to market the combination of lumacaftor and ivacaftor will depend on many factors, including: whether or not the fda and european regulatory authorities determine that the evidence gathered in well-controlled clinical trials, other clinical trials and nonclinical studies demonstrates that lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor is safe and effective as a treatment for patients with cf 12 years of age and older who have two copies of the f508del mutation in their cftr gene; whether or not the fda and european regulatory authorities are satisfied that the manufacturing facilities, processes and controls for the combination of lumacaftor and ivacaftor are adequate, that the labeling is satisfactory and that plans for post-marketing studies, safety monitoring and risk evaluation and mitigation are sufficient; and the timing and nature of the fda and ema's comments and questions regarding the nda and maa for the combination of lumacaftor and ivacaftor, the scheduling and recommendations of any advisory committee meeting to consider the combination of lumacaftor and ivacaftor, the time required to respond to the fda or ema's comments and questions and to obtain the final labeling for the combination of lumacaftor and ivacaftor and any other delays that may be associated with the nda and maa review process. even if lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor is approved, the fda or european regulatory authorities, as the case may be, could require extensive warnings on the product labeling or require expensive and time-consuming clinical trials, risk evaluation and mitigation strategies or reporting as conditions of approval. if we experience material delays in obtaining marketing approval for the combination of lumacaftor and ivacaftor in either or both of the united states or europe, our future net product revenues and cash flows will be adversely effected. if we do not obtain approval to market the combination of lumacaftor and ivacaftor in the united states and europe, our business will be materially harmed. additionally, even if the combination of lumacaftor and ivacaftor receives marketing approval, coverage and reimbursement may not be available and, even if it is available, the level of reimbursement may not be satisfactory. the regulations that govern pricing, coverage and reimbursement for drugs vary widely from country to country. some countries require approval of the sale price of a drug before it can be marketed. in many countries, the pricing review period begins after marketing approval is granted. adverse pricing limitations or a delay in obtaining coverage and reimbursement would decrease our future net product revenues and harm our business. 24 we are incurring losses, and we may not become profitable in future periods. we have incurred significant operating losses in each of the last three years. in the short-term, our revenues will be dependent on continued sales of kalydeco and over the longer-term, we expect our revenues will be dependent on both continued sales of kalydeco and our ability to obtain regulatory approval for, and successfully commercialize, lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor. even if we are successful in obtaining marketing approval for lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor on a timely basis, we currently do not expect to recognize revenue from lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor until at least mid-2015. our net losses are having an adverse effect on, among other things, our shareholders' equity, total assets and working capital. because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with pharmaceutical product development, we cannot predict when we will become profitable, if ever. we are currently substantially dependent on revenues from kalydeco, and future revenues from kalydeco are dependent, among other factors, on our ability to increase the number of patients eligible for treatment with ivacaftor. until we obtain regulatory approval for lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor, we expect to be substantially dependent on revenues from kalydeco. in 2012, we obtained approval to market kalydeco for the treatment of patients with cf six years of age and older with the g551d mutation in the cftr gene. ince this time, we have sought to expand the number of patients eligible for treatment with kalydeco. in february 2014, the fda approved kalydeco for the treatment of patients with cf six years of age and older who have one of eight other mutations in their cftr gene, which were studied in our first phase 3 label-expansion clinical trial for ivacaftor. in july 2014, the european commission approved kalydeco for this patient group. in december 2014, the fda approved kalydeco for the treatment of patients six years of age and older who have the r117h in their cftr gene. in order to further expand the market for ivacaftor, we need to demonstrate that ivacaftor is safe and effective in additional patient populations. we have completed a phase 3 clinical trial to evaluate ivacaftor as a treatment for children with cf two to five years of age with specific gating mutations in their cftr gene, including the g551d mutation, and have submitted an nda to the fda and an maa line extension application to the ema based on this clinical trial. we also have submitted a maa variation to the ema for ivacaftor for patients with cf 18 years of age and older with the r117h mutation in their cftr gene. these clinical trials and our discussions with regulatory authorities are subject to the same risks and uncertainties that are described in these risk factors with respect to the development of our drug candidates. there can be no assurance that the results from our clinical trials of ivacaftor or the data included in our submissions to regulatory authorities will be sufficient to obtain approval for use of ivacaftor in additional indications or that we will be successful in obtaining reimbursement for the use of kalydeco in additional indications, if approved. if our competitors bring drugs with superior product profiles to market, our drugs may not be competitive and our revenues could decline. kalydeco and any drugs we develop in the future may not be able to compete effectively with marketed drugs or new drugs that may be developed by competitors. there are many other companies developing drugs for the same indications that we are pursuing. in order to compete successfully in these areas, we must demonstrate improved safety, efficacy and/or tolerability, and ease of manufacturing, and gain and maintain market acceptance over competing drugs. many of our competitors, including major pharmaceutical companies such as abbvie, bristol-myers squibb, gilead, johnson &amp; johnson, merck, novartis, pfizer, sanofi and roche, possess substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we possess. potential competitors also include other public and private companies, academic institutions, government agencies, other public and private research organizations and charitable venture philanthropy organizations that conduct research, seek patent protection and/or establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and commercialization. as an example, we experienced a rapid decline in the number of patients being treated with incivek in 2013 and 2014 as new medicines for the treatment of hcv infection neared approval and were ultimately approved and became the accepted standard of care. despite the initial success of incivek, incivek only resulted in significant net product revenues during 2011, 2012 and 2013. mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may result in even more resources being concentrated among a smaller number of our competitors. smaller and other early-stage companies also may prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. these third parties compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial 25 sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to, or necessary for, our programs. a number of companies are seeking to identify and develop drug candidates for the treatment of cf, including novartis, pfizer, genzyme, which is a division of sanofi, and proqr therapeutics b.v., and several private companies. our competitors have research and development programs directed at identifying cftr potentiators, cftr correctors and drug candidates with other mechanisms of action that seek to address the underlying cause of cf, and our success in rapidly developing and commercializing kalydeco and developing and potentially commercializing lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor may increase the resources that our competitors allocate to the development of these potential treatments for cf. if one or more competing therapies are successfully developed as a treatment for patients with cf, our revenues from kalydeco, lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor, if approved, and/or other compounds, if then approved, could face competitive pressures. if we discover safety issues with any of our products or if we fail to comply with continuing u.s. and applicable foreign regulations, commercialization efforts for the product could be negatively affected, the approved product could lose its approval or sales could be suspended, and our business could be materially harmed. our products are subject to continuing regulatory oversight, including the review of additional safety information. drugs are more widely used by patients once approval has been obtained and therefore side-effects and other problems may be observed after approval that were not seen or anticipated, or were not as prevalent or severe, during pre-approval clinical trials or nonclinical studies. for example, in december 2012, we updated the incivek label in the united states to include a boxed warning stating that fatal and non-fatal serious skin reactions have been reported in patients taking incivek combination treatment. the subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a product could negatively affect commercial sales of the product, result in restrictions on the product or lead to the withdrawal of the product from the market. the reporting of adverse safety events involving our products or public speculation about such events could cause our stock price to decline or experience periods of volatility. if we or our collaborators fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we or our collaborators may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals for specific products, product recalls and seizures, operating restrictions and/or criminal prosecutions. in addition, the manufacturers we engage to make our products and the manufacturing facilities in which our products are made are subject to periodic review and inspection by the fda and foreign regulatory authorities. if problems are identified during the review or inspection of these manufacturers or manufacturing facilities, it could result in our inability to use the facility to make our product or a determination that inventories are not safe for commercial sale. if physicians, patients and third-party payors do not accept our drugs, we may be unable to generate significant revenues in future periods. our drugs may not gain or maintain market acceptance among physicians and patients. effectively marketing our drugs and any of our drug candidates, if approved, requires substantial efforts, both prior to launch and after approval. physicians may elect not to prescribe our drugs, and patients may elect not to request or take them, for a variety of reasons including: prevalence and severity of adverse side-effects; lack of reimbursement availability from third-party payors; lower demonstrated efficacy, safety and/or tolerability compared to other drugs; lack of cost-effectiveness; a decision to wait for the approval of other therapies in development that have significant perceived advantages over our drug; convenience and ease of administration; other potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; and ineffective sales, marketing and/or distribution support. 26 if our drugs fail to achieve or maintain market acceptance, we will not be able to generate significant revenues in future periods. government and other third-party payors seek to contain costs of health care through legislative and other means. if they fail to provide coverage and adequate reimbursement rates for our products, our revenues will be harmed. in both domestic and foreign markets, our sales of products depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. third-party payors include government health programs such as medicare and medicaid in the united states and the national health care systems in many international markets, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. the trend in the u.s. health care industry and elsewhere is cost containment and efforts of third-party payors to contain or reduce health care costs that may adversely affect our ability to establish or maintain appropriate prices for our products or any drugs that we may develop and commercialize. in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of therapeutic and other pharmaceutical products is subject to governmental control. reimbursement agencies in europe are often more conservative than those in the united states and the reimbursement process is often slower since reimbursement decisions are made on a country-by-country basis. in the united states, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental control as currently exists in europe. the aca requires discounts under the medicare drug benefit program and increased the rebates paid by pharmaceutical companies on drugs covered by medicaid. the aca also imposes an annual fee, which increases annually, on sales by branded pharmaceutical manufacturers. in addition, third-party payors attempt to contain health care costs by demanding price discounts or rebates and limiting both the types and variety of drugs that they will cover and the amounts that they will pay for drugs. as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our products. we might need to conduct post-marketing studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of our products or any other future products to such payors' satisfaction. such studies might require us to commit a significant amount of management's time and our financial and other resources. our products might not ultimately be considered cost-effective. adequate third-party reimbursement might not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. reimbursement rates vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost products that already are reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other products or services and may reflect budgetary constraints and/or imperfections in the data used to calculate these rates. net prices for products are reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs and privately-negotiated discounts. while we have implemented policies in an effort to comply with mandated reimbursement rates, the u.s. federal government, state governments and private payors frequently pursue actions against pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies alleging that the companies have overstated prices in order to inflate reimbursement rates. any such action could adversely affect the pricing of and revenues from our products. additionally, in the united states and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals and initiatives to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell products. some of these proposed and implemented reforms have resulted, or could result, in reduced reimbursement rates for our current or future products, which would adversely affect our business, operations and financial results. specialty pharmaceuticals are drugs that are prescribed by specialist physicians to treat rare or life-threatening conditions and typically address smaller patient populations. each of our products is a specialty pharmaceutical product, and our research and development programs are primarily focused on developing additional specialty pharmaceutical products. the increasing availability and use of innovative specialty pharmaceuticals, combined with their relative higher cost as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products, is beginning to generate significant third-party payor interest in developing cost-containment strategies targeted to this sector. government regulations in both non-u.s. and u.s markets could limit the prices that can be charged for our products and may limit our commercial opportunity. the increasing use of health technology assessments in markets around the world and the financial challenges faced by many governments may lead to significant adverse effects on our business. any legislation or regulatory changes or relaxation of laws that restrict imports of drugs from other countries also could reduce the net price we receive for our products. 27 if we market any of our products in a manner that violates applicable health care laws, including fraud and abuse laws, laws prohibiting off-label promotion, disclosure laws or other similar laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. we are subject to health care fraud and abuse laws, such as the federal false claims act and the anti-kickback provisions of the federal social security act, laws prohibiting off-label product promotion and other similar laws and regulations both in united states and in non-u.s. markets. while we have a corporate compliance program designed to actively identify, prevent and mitigate risk through the implementation of compliance policies and systems and the promotion of a culture of compliance, if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws our business could be materially harmed. the federal anti-kickback law prohibits knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the ordering, furnishing, arranging for or recommending of an item or service that is reimbursable, in whole or in part, by a federal health care program, such as medicare or medicaid. the federal statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, patients, purchasers and formulary managers on the other hand, and therefore constrains our marketing practices and our various service arrangements with physicians, including physicians who make clinical decisions to use our products. although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly and courts generally will apply a one purpose test and find a violation of the law if any part of the intent in providing the remuneration was to induce referrals, even if it also was intended to compensate for professional services or other legitimate purposes. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in promotion for uses that the fda has not approved, known as off-label uses, that caused claims to be submitted to medicaid for non-covered off-label uses; submitting inflated best price information to the medicaid rebate program; and certain manufacturing-related violations. the scope of this and other laws may expand in ways that make compliance more difficult and expensive. although physicians are permitted, based on their medical judgment, to prescribe products for indications other than those approved by the fda, manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products for such off-label uses. we market kalydeco for patients six years of age and older with cf who have specific mutations in their cftr gene and provide promotional materials and training programs to physicians regarding the use of kalydeco in these patient populations. if the fda determines that our promotional materials, training or other activities constitute off-label promotion, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or other activities, conduct corrective advertising or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. it also is possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they believe that the alleged improper promotion led to the submission and payment of claims for an off-label use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. even if it is later determined we were not in violation of these laws, we may be faced with negative publicity, incur significant expenses defending our actions and have to divert significant management resources from other matters. also applicable to some of our practices is hipaa and its implementing regulations, which created federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program or making false statements relating to health care matters and which also imposes certain regulatory and contractual requirements regarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. the majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. in addition, certain states have laws governing the privacy of certain health information, which may differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by hipaa, complicating compliance efforts. sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties from private causes of action, exclusion of a pharmaceutical manufacturer's products from reimbursement under government programs and criminal fines. even if we are not determined 28 to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could harm our business. in recent years, several states and localities have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, health care provider payments and other activities. additionally, as part of the aca, the federal government recently enacted the physician payment sunshine act provisions. the physician payment sunshine act provisions require pharmaceutical manufacturers to report annually to the secretary of hhs payments or other transfers of value made by that entity to physicians and teaching hospitals. we were required to begin reporting certain information with respect to such payments in june 2014. we also now have similar reporting obligations in certain european countries and medicines australia and the european federation of pharmaceutical industries and associations recently adopted codes that will require us to begin reporting such information in australia in 2015 and throughout the european union in 2016. we expended significant efforts to establish, and are continuing to devote significant resources to maintain and enhance, systems and processes in order to comply with these regulations. failure to comply with the reporting requirements would result in significant civil monetary penalties. the aca also includes various provisions designed to strengthen significantly fraud and abuse enforcement, such as increased funding for enforcement efforts and the lowering of the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback statute and criminal health care fraud statute such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. on january 1, 2015, the ema adopted a new policy on publication of clinical data whereby it will publish clinical reports submitted as part of maas for drugs. the policy applies to all clinical reports submitted after january 1, 2015 and the reports will be released as soon as a decision on the application has been made by the ema. in addition to the general compliance cost associated with the new policy, the ability of third-parties to review the raw data from our clinical trials may increase the risk of patient confidentiality breaches and could result in enhanced scrutiny of our clinical trials results. such scrutiny could result in misconceptions being spread about our drugs and drug candidates, even if the underlying analysis of such review turns out to be flawed. these publications could also result in the disclosure of information to our competitors that we might otherwise deem confidential, which could harm our competitive position. if our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any such laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from federal health care programs and/or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. the risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are subject to a variety of interpretations. any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. the sales and marketing practices of our industry have been the subject of increased scrutiny from governmental entities in the united sates and other countries in which we market our products, and we believe that this trend will continue. we have in place policies to govern how we may retain health care professionals as consultants that reflect the current climate on this issue and are providing training on these policies. any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, also could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. the increasing use of social media platforms presents new risks and challenges. social media increasingly is being used by third parties to communicate about our products and drug candidates and the diseases our therapies are designed to treat. we believe that members of the cf community may be more active on social media as compared to other patient populations due to the demographics of this patient population. social media practices in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are evolving, which creates uncertainty and risk of noncompliance with regulations applicable to our business. for example, patients may use social media platforms to comment on the effectiveness of, or adverse experiences with, a drug or a drug candidate, which could result in reporting obligations. in addition, there is a risk of inappropriate disclosure of sensitive information or negative or inaccurate posts or comments about us on any social networking website. if any of these events were to occur or we otherwise fail to comply with applicable regulations, we could incur liability, face restrictive regulatory actions or incur other harm to our business. 29 risks related to development, clinical testing and regulation of our products and drug candidates our drug candidates remain subject to clinical testing and regulatory approval. if we are unable to successfully develop additional drug candidates, our business will be materially harmed. our business depends upon the successful development and commercialization of drug candidates. these drug candidates are in various stages of development and must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before they can be approved for sale by the fda or comparable foreign regulatory authorities. to satisfy these standards, we must allocate resources among our various development programs and must engage in expensive and lengthy testing of our drug candidates. discovery and development efforts for new pharmaceutical products, including new combination therapies, are resource-intensive and may take 10 to 15 years or longer for each drug candidate. despite our efforts, our drug candidates may not: offer therapeutic or other improvement over existing competitive drugs; be proven safe and effective in clinical trials; meet applicable regulatory standards; be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs; or if approved for commercial sale, be successfully marketed as pharmaceutical products. we have recently completed and/or have ongoing or planned clinical trials for ivacaftor, ivacaftor in combination with lumacaftor, and ivacaftor in combination with vx-661. the strength of our company's product portfolio and pipeline will depend in large part upon the outcomes of these clinical trials and our ability to develop and commercialize combination treatments for cf that include ivacaftor in combination with (i) lumacaftor or vx-661 and/or (ii) a next-generation cftr corrector compound. results of our clinical trials and findings from our nonclinical studies, including toxicology findings in nonclinical studies conducted concurrently with clinical trials, could lead to abrupt changes in our development activities, including the possible cessation of development activities associated with a particular drug candidate or program. moreover, clinical data are often susceptible of varying interpretations and analyses, and many companies that have believed their drug candidates performed satisfactorily in clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain marketing approval of their drug candidate. furthermore, results from our clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the fda or other regulatory authorities for approval of a drug candidate. many companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including our company, have suffered significant setbacks in later-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in earlier-stage clinical trials. accordingly, the results from completed preclinical studies and clinical trials may not be replicated in later clinical trials, and ongoing clinical trials for our drug candidates may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later-stage clinical trials or of the likelihood of approval of a drug candidate for commercial sale. in addition, from time to time we report interim data from our clinical trials. interim data from a clinical trial may not be predictive of final results from the clinical trial. if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval, we will be unable to commercialize our drug candidates. the time required to complete clinical trials and to satisfy the fda and other countries' regulatory review processes is uncertain and typically takes many years. our analysis of data obtained from nonclinical and clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. we also may encounter unanticipated delays or increased costs due to government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in governmental policy during the period of drug development, clinical trials and governmental regulatory review. any failure to obtain regulatory approvals for a drug candidate would prevent us from commercializing that drug candidate. any delay in obtaining required regulatory approvals could materially adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize a drug candidate. furthermore, any regulatory approval to market a drug may be subject to limitations that we do not expect on the indicated uses for which we may market the drug. any such limitations could reduce the size of the market for the drug. we also are subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement. non-u.s. jurisdictions have different approval 30 procedures than those required by the fda, and these jurisdictions may impose additional testing requirements for our drug candidates. the foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with the fda approval process described above, as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of foreign requirements. approval by the fda does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities outside the united states and approval by a foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by the fda. in addition, although the fda may accept data from clinical trials conducted outside the united states, acceptance of this data is subject to conditions imposed by the fda. for example, the clinical trial must be well designed and conducted and performed by qualified investigators in accordance with ethical principles. the trial population also must adequately represent the u.s. population, and the data must be applicable to the u.s. population and u.s. medical practice in ways that the fda deems clinically meaningful. in addition, while these clinical trials are subject to the applicable local laws, fda acceptance of the data will depend on its determination that the trials also complied with all applicable u.s. laws and regulations. if the fda does not accept the data from any trial that we conduct outside the united states, it would likely result in the need for additional trials, which would be costly and time-consuming and delay or permanently halt our development of the applicable drug candidate. we have developed multiple manufacturing process for co-formulated lumacaftor/ivacaftor, and any failure to validate our manufacturing process could adversely affect our ability to commercially launch lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor. we have developed several manufacturing processes to produce commercial quantities of co-formulated lumacaftor/ivacaftor. in addition to a traditional batch manufacturing process, we have developed a continuous manufacturing process that connects the processes used in traditional batch manufacturing. we have not previously designed, implemented or utilized a continuous manufacturing process to produce commercial quantities of a pharmaceutical product and believe that we are the first company to seek approval for an nda or an maa using this method of manufacturing. as a result, it may be more difficult to satisfy regulators that our process is capable of consistently producing commercial quantities of co-formulated lumacaftor/ivacaftor and that our methods for testing the quality, purity and potency of the final products are sufficient. while we believe that we could manufacture sufficient co-formulated lumacaftor/ivacaftor using either of our manufacturing processes, a failure to establish and validate our manufacturing processes for co-formulated lumacaftor/ivacaftor or any disruption in our supply chain could increase costs or adversely affect our ability to commercially launch lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor in a timely manner. if clinical trials are prolonged or delayed, our development timelines for the affected development program could be extended, our costs to develop the drug candidate could increase and the competitive position of the drug candidate could be adversely affected. we cannot predict whether or not we will encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause us or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend clinical trials, or delay the analysis of data from our completed or ongoing clinical trials. among the factors that could delay our development programs are: ongoing discussions with the fda or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials and the number of clinical trials we must conduct; delays in enrolling volunteers or patients into clinical trials, including as a result of low numbers of patients that meet the eligibility criteria for the trial; a lower than anticipated retention rate of volunteers or patients in clinical trials; the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive results, unforeseen complications in testing or clinical investigator error; inadequate supply or deficient quality of drug candidate materials or other materials necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials; unfavorable fda or foreign regulatory authority inspection and review of a manufacturing facility that supplied clinical trial materials or its relevant manufacturing records or a clinical trial site or records of any clinical or preclinical investigation; unfavorable scientific results from clinical trials; 31 serious and unexpected drug-related side-effects experienced by participants in our clinical trials or by participants in clinical trials being conducted by our competitors to evaluate drug candidates with similar mechanisms of action or structures to drug candidates that we are developing; favorable results in testing of our competitors' drug candidates, or fda or foreign regulatory authority approval of our competitors' drug candidates; or action by the fda or a foreign regulatory authority to place a clinical hold or partial clinical hold on a trial or compound or deeming the clinical trial conduct as problematic. our ability to enroll patients in our clinical trials in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis is subject to a number of factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the number of other clinical trials ongoing and competing for patients in the same indication and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. in addition, patients may drop out of our clinical trials or may be lost to follow-up medical evaluation after treatment ends, and this could impair the validity or statistical significance of the trials. delays in patient enrollment or unforeseen drop-out rates may result in increased costs and longer development times. we, our collaborators, the fda or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a drug candidate at any time if we or they believe the healthy volunteers or patients participating in such clinical trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. for example, in july 2013, the fda placed a partial clinical hold on vx-135, a drug candidate we were developing for the treatment of patients with hepatitis c virus infection. any such suspension could materially adversely affect the development of a particular drug candidate and our business. if our processes and systems are not compliant with regulatory requirements, we could be subject to restrictions on marketing our products or could be delayed in submitting regulatory filings seeking approvals for our drug candidates. we have a number of regulated processes and systems that are required to obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our drugs and drug candidates. these processes and systems are subject to continual review and periodic inspection by the fda and other regulatory bodies. in addition, the clinical research organizations and other third parties that we work with in our non-clinical studies and clinical trials and our oversight of such parties are subject to similar reviews and periodic inspection by the fda and other regulatory bodies. if compliance issues are identified at any point in the development and approval process, we may experience delays in filing for regulatory approval for our drug candidates, or delays in obtaining regulatory approval after filing. any later discovery of previously unknown problems or safety issues with approved drugs or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in restrictions on such drugs or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of drugs from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal penalties or a refusal by the fda and/or other regulatory bodies to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we are a party to agreements that transfer responsibility for complying with specified regulatory requirements, such as filing and maintenance of marketing authorizations and safety reporting or compliance with manufacturing requirements, to our collaborators and third-party manufacturers. if our collaborators or third-party manufacturers do not fulfill these regulatory obligations, any drugs for which we or they obtain approval may be subject to later restrictions on manufacturing or sale, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. risks related to collaborations and other business development activities our ability to execute on our long-term strategy depends in part on our ability to acquire rights to additional drugs, drug candidates and other technologies that have the potential to add to our pipeline or provide us with new commercial opportunities. in order to achieve our long-term business objectives, our strategy is to supplement our internal pipeline by acquiring rights to additional drugs, drug candidates and other technologies that have the potential to provide us with new commercial opportunities. in particular, we are focusing on drug candidates for the treatment of patients with cf and other third-party drug candidates that could be developed for specialty markets. we may not be able to acquire, in-license or otherwise obtain rights to additional drugs, drug candidates or other technologies on acceptable terms or at all. we have faced and will continue to face significant competition for these types of drugs, drug candidates and other technologies from a variety of other companies with interests in the specialty pharmaceutical marketplace, many of which have significantly more financial resources and experience in business development activities than we have. in addition, non-profit organizations may be 32 willing to provide capital to the companies that control additional drugs, drug candidates or technologies, which may provide incentives for companies to advance these drugs, drug candidates or technologies independently. because of these competitive pressures, the cost of acquiring, in-licensing or otherwise obtaining rights to such drugs, drug candidates or other technologies has grown dramatically in recent years and may be at levels that we cannot afford or that we believe are not justified by market potential. this competition is most intense for approved drugs and late-stage drug candidates, which have the lowest risk and would have the most immediate effect on our financial performance. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of potential acquisitions or licenses to businesses, drugs, drug candidates and other technologies, and the integration following any such acquisition or license may disrupt our business and management. if we acquire a business or the rights to additional drugs, drug candidates or other technologies, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any such transaction, each of which involves numerous risks. these risks include: failure to successfully further develop the acquired or licensed drugs or technology or to achieve strategic objectives, including successfully developing and commercializing the drugs, drug candidates or technologies that we acquire or license; inadequate or unfavorable data from clinical trials evaluating the acquired or licensed drug or drug candidates; entry into markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience or where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management and employees from other opportunities and challenges; potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired company, or acquired or licensed product or technology, including but not limited to, problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges with respect to intellectual property, product quality, safety, accounting practices, employee, customer or third party relations and other known and unknown liabilities; liability for activities of the acquired company or licensor before the acquisition or license, including intellectual property infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities; exposure to litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risk as a result of an acquisition or license, including but not limited to, claims from terminated employees, customers, former equity holders or other third-parties; difficulty in integrating the drugs, drug candidates, technologies, business operations and personnel of an acquired company; and difficulties in the integration of the acquired company's departments, systems, including accounting, human resource and other administrative systems, technologies, books and records, and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards, controls, including internal control over financial reporting required by the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and related procedures and policies. acquisitions and licensing arrangements are inherently risky, and ultimately, if we do not complete an announced acquisition or license transaction or integrate an acquired business, or an acquired or licensed drug, drug candidate or other technology successfully and in a timely manner, we may not realize the benefits of the acquisition or license to the extent anticipated and the perception of the effectiveness of our management team and our company may suffer in the marketplace. additionally, we may later incur impairment charges related to assets acquired in any such transaction. for example, we acquired or licensed several drug candidates for the treatment of hcv infection, but due to adverse clinical data regarding these drug candidates and competitive pressures, we incurred significant costs and impairment charges but did not realize the expected benefits from these transactions. in addition, even if we achieve the long-term benefits associated with strategic transactions, our expenses and short-term costs may increase materially and adversely affect our liquidity and short-term net income (loss). future licenses or acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence 33 of debt, the creation of contingent liabilities, impairment expenses related to goodwill, and impairment or amortization expenses related to other intangible assets, which could harm our financial condition. we face risks in connection with existing and future collaborations with respect to the development, manufacture and commercialization of our products and drug candidates. the risks that we face in connection with our current and any future collaborations include the following: our collaborators may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts or may have insufficient resources to effectively develop our drug candidates. the ability of some of our products and drug candidates to reach their potential could be limited if collaborators decrease or fail to increase development or commercialization efforts related to those products or drug candidates. our collaboration agreements provide our collaborators with a level of discretion in determining the amount and timing of efforts and resources that they will apply to these collaborations. any future collaboration agreements may have the effect of limiting the areas of research and development that we may pursue, either alone or in collaboration with third parties. collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, drugs that are similar to or competitive with the drugs or drug candidates that are the subject of their collaborations with us. disagreements with collaborators, including disagreements over proprietary rights, contract interpretation or the preferred course of development, might cause delays or termination of the research, development or commercialization of drug candidates, might lead to additional responsibilities for us with respect to drug candidates, or might result in litigation or arbitration. any such disagreements would divert management attention and resources and be time-consuming and expensive. collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our intellectual property or proprietary information or expose us to potential litigation. collaborators may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may expose us to litigation and potential liability. investigations and/or compliance or enforcement actions against a collaborator, which may expose us to indirect liability as a result of our partnership with such collaborator. our collaboration agreements are subject to termination under various circumstances. additionally, if a collaborator were to be involved in a business combination, it might deemphasize or terminate the development or commercialization of any drug candidate licensed to it by us. if one of our collaborators terminates its agreement with us, we may find it more difficult to attract new collaborators and our perception in the business and financial communities could be harmed. we may not be able to attract collaborators or external funding for the development and commercialization of certain of our drug candidates. as part of our ongoing strategy, we may seek additional collaborative arrangements or external funding for certain of our development programs and/or seek to expand existing collaborations to cover additional commercialization and/or development activities. we have a number of research programs and early-stage clinical development programs, some of which are being developed in collaboration with a third party. for example, in june 2014, we granted janssen pharmaceuticals, inc. an exclusive worldwide license to develop and commercialize vx-787, a drug candidate discovered by us for the treatment of influenza. at any time, we may determine that in order to continue development of a drug candidate or program or successfully commercialize a drug we need to identify a collaborator or amend or expand an existing collaboration. whether we reach a definitive agreement for a collaboration will depend, among other things, upon our assessment of the collaborator's resources and expertise, the terms and conditions of the proposed collaboration and the proposed collaborator's evaluation of a number of factors. those factors may include the design or results of clinical trials, the likelihood of approval by the fda or similar regulatory authorities outside the united states, the potential market for the subject drug candidate, the costs and complexities of manufacturing and delivering such drug candidate to patients, the 34 potential of competing products, the existence of uncertainty with respect to our ownership of the applicable intellectual property, which can exist if there is a challenge to such ownership without regard to the merits of the challenge, and industry and market conditions generally. potentially, and depending on the circumstances, we may desire that a collaborator either agree to fund portions of a drug development program led by us, or agree to provide all of the funding and directly lead the development and commercialization of a program. no assurance can be given that any efforts we make to seek additional collaborative arrangements will be successfully completed on a timely basis or at all. if we elect to fund and undertake development or commercialization activities on our own, we may need to obtain additional expertise and additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. if we are unable to enter into acceptable collaborative relationships, one or more of our development programs could be delayed or terminated and the possibility of our receiving a return on our investment in the program could be impaired. risks related to third-party manufacturing and reliance on third parties we depend on third-party manufacturers to manufacture our products and the materials we require for our clinical trials. we may not be able to maintain these relationships and could experience supply disruptions outside of our control. we rely on a worldwide network of third-party manufacturers to manufacture and distribute our drugs for commercial use and our drug candidates for clinical trials. as a result of our reliance on these third-party manufacturers and suppliers, including a sole source supplier of one of the components in our products, we could be subject to significant supply disruptions outside of our control. our supply chain for sourcing raw materials and manufacturing drug product ready for distribution is a multi-step international endeavor. third-party contract manufacturers, including some in china, supply us with raw materials, and convert these raw materials into drug substance and convert the drug substance into final dosage form. establishing and managing this global supply chain requires a significant financial commitment and the creation and maintenance of numerous third-party contractual relationships. although we attempt to manage the business relationships with companies in our supply chain, we do not have control over their operations. supply disruptions may result from a number of factors, including shortages in product raw materials, labor or technical difficulties, regulatory inspections or restrictions, shipping or customs delays or any other performance failure by any third-party manufacturer on which we rely. any supply disruptions could disrupt sales of our products and/or the timing of our clinical trials. furthermore, we may be required to modify our production methods to permit us to economically manufacture our drugs for sale and our drug candidates for clinical trials. these modifications may require us to re-evaluate our resources and the resources of our third-party manufacturers, which could result in abrupt changes in our production methods and supplies. we require a supply of ivacaftor for commercial sale (as kalydeco), and if we successfully obtain marketing approval for lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor, we will require a commercial supply of lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor. we also require a supply of ivacaftor, lumacaftor, vx-661 and our other drug candidates for use in our clinical trials. we obtain ivacaftor and lumacaftor (and the combinations thereof) to meet our commercial and clinical supply needs through a third-party manufacturing network. our supply chain for kalydeco and lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor includes a sole source supplier of one of the components in our products. a disruption in the commercial supply of kalydeco, or lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor, if we successfully obtain marketing approval for such combination, would have a significant effect on patients, our business and our product revenues. a disruption in the clinical supply of drug products could delay the completion of clinical trials and affect timelines for regulatory filings. there can be no assurance that we will be able to establish and maintain secondary manufacturers for all of our ivacaftor or lumacaftor supply needs on a timely basis or at all. in the course of providing its services, a contract manufacturer may develop process technology related to the manufacture of our products or drug candidates that the manufacturer owns, either independently or jointly with us. this would increase our reliance on that manufacturer or require us to obtain a license from that manufacturer in order to have our products or drug candidates manufactured by other suppliers utilizing the same process. we rely on third parties to conduct certain pre-clinical work and clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such studies and/or trials or failing to satisfy regulatory requirements. we rely on third parties such as contract research organizations to help manage certain pre-clinical work and our clinical trials and on medical institutions and clinical investigators to enroll qualified patients and conduct our clinical trials. our 35 reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities but does not relieve us of our responsibilities. for example, we remain responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the clinical trial. moreover, the fda requires us to comply with standards, commonly referred to as good laboratory practices and good clinical practices for conducting, recording and reporting the results of pre-clinical and clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. if these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be required to replace them. although we believe that there are a number of other third-party contractors we could engage to continue these activities, it may result in a delay of the affected clinical trial or drug development program. if clinical trials are not conducted in accordance with our contractual expectations or regulatory requirements, action by regulatory authorities might significantly and adversely affect the conduct or progress of these clinical trials or in specific circumstances might result in a requirement that a clinical trial be redone. accordingly, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize our drug candidates could be delayed. risks related to intellectual property if our patents do not protect our drugs, or our drugs infringe third-party patents, we could be subject to litigation and substantial liabilities. we have numerous issued patents and pending patent applications in the united states, as well as counterparts in other countries. our success will depend, in significant part, on our ability to obtain and defend u.s. and foreign patents covering our drugs, their uses and our processes, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. we cannot be certain that any patents will issue from our pending patent applications or, even if patents issue or have issued, that the issued claims will provide us with any adequate protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially valuable. due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents, our ability to obtain, maintain and enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. recent patent reform legislation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents in the u.s. the leahy-smith america invents act, or the leahy-smith act, includes a number of significant changes to united states patent law. these include provisions that affect the way patent applications are prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. the united states patent office recently developed new regulations and procedures to govern administration of the leahy-smith act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the leahy-smith act, and in particular, the first to file provisions, only became effective in march 2013. the first to file provisions limit the rights of an inventor who is the first to invent an invention but is not the first to file an application claiming that invention. u.s. and foreign patent applications typically are maintained in confidence for a period of time after they initially are filed with the applicable patent office. consequently, we cannot be certain that we were the first to invent, or the first to file patent applications on, our products or drug candidates or their use. if a third party also has filed a u.s. patent application relating to our drugs or drug candidates, their uses, or a similar invention, we may have to participate in interference proceedings to determine priority of invention and could lose our patent position. for applications governed by the lahey-smith act, if a third-party has an earlier filed u.s. patent application relating to our drugs or drug candidates, their uses, or a similar invention, we may be unable to obtain an issued patent from our application. the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its inventorship, scope, validity or enforceability. our patents may be challenged by third parties, resulting in the patent being deemed invalid, unenforceable or narrowed in scope, or the third party may circumvent any such issued patents. also, our pending patent applications may not issue, and we may not receive any additional patents. our patents might not contain claims that are sufficiently broad to prevent others from utilizing our technologies. for instance, the issued patents relating to our drugs or drug candidates may be limited to a particular molecule or molecules and may not cover similar molecules that have similar clinical properties. consequently, our competitors may independently develop competing products that do not infringe our patents or other intellectual property. in addition, if the breadth or strength of protection provided by our patents and patent applications is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to license, develop or commercialize current or future products. the laws of many foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the united states and many companies in our segment of the pharmaceutical industry have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. if we encounter such difficulties in protecting or are otherwise 36 precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, our business could be substantially harmed. because of the extensive time required for the discovery, development, testing and regulatory review of drug candidates, it is possible that, a patent may expire before a drug candidate can be commercialized, or a patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization of such drug candidate resulting in a minimal, if any, period of patent exclusivity. to the extent our drug candidates are not commercialized significantly ahead of the expiration date of any applicable patent, or to the extent we have no patent protection on such drug candidates, then, to the extent available we would rely on other forms of exclusivity, such as regulatory exclusivity provided by the fdca and its counterpart agencies in various jurisdictions, and/or orphan drug exclusivity. uncertainty over intellectual property in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry has been the source of litigation and other disputes, which is inherently costly and unpredictable. there is considerable uncertainty within our industry about the validity, scope and enforceability of many issued patents in the united states and elsewhere in the world, and, to date, the law and practice remains in substantial flux both in the agencies that grant patents and in the courts. we cannot currently determine the ultimate scope and validity of patents which may be granted to third parties in the future or which patents might be asserted as being infringed by the manufacture, use and sale of our products. there has been, and we expect that there may continue to be, significant litigation in the industry regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. litigation, arbitrations, administrative proceedings and other legal actions with private parties and governmental authorities concerning patents and other intellectual property rights may be protracted, expensive and distracting to management. competitors may sue us as a way of delaying the introduction of our drugs or to remove our drugs from the market. any litigation, including litigation related to abbreviated new drug applications, or anda, interference proceedings to determine priority of inventions, derivations proceedings, inter partes review, oppositions to patents in foreign countries, litigation against our collaborators or similar actions, may be costly and time consuming and could harm our business. we expect that litigation may be necessary in some instances to determine the validity and scope of certain of our proprietary rights. litigation may be necessary in other instances to determine the validity, scope or non-infringement of certain patent rights claimed by third parties to be pertinent to the manufacture, use or sale of our products. ultimately, the outcome of such litigation could adversely affect the validity and scope of our patent or other proprietary rights, hinder our ability to manufacture and market our products, or result in the assessment of significant monetary damages against us that may exceed amounts, if any, accrued in our financial statements. to the extent that valid present or future third-party patents or other intellectual property rights cover our drugs, drug candidates or technologies, we or our strategic collaborators may seek licenses or other agreements from the holders of such rights in order to avoid or settle legal claims. such licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, which may hinder our ability to, or prevent us from being able to, manufacture and market our drugs. payments under any licenses that we are able to obtain would reduce our profits derived from the covered products. we may be subject to claims by third parties asserting that our employees or we have misappropriated their intellectual property, or claiming ownership of what we regard as our own intellectual property. many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. although we try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of any such employee's former employer. litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. in addition, while it is our policy to require our employees and contractors who may be involved in the development of intellectual property to execute agreements assigning such intellectual property to us, we may be unsuccessful in executing such an agreement with each party who in fact develops intellectual property that we regard as our own. our and their assignment agreements may not be self-executing or may be breached, and we may be forced to bring claims against third parties, or defend claims they may bring against us, to determine the ownership of what we regard as our intellectual property. 37 if we fail in prosecuting or defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. even if we are successful in prosecuting or defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. risks related to our operations if we fail to manage our operations effectively, our business may suffer. we have expanded and are continuing to expand our global operations and capabilities, which has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational, research and development and financial infrastructure. to effectively manage our business, we need to: implement and clearly communicate our corporate-wide strategies; enhance our operational and financial infrastructure, including our controls over records and information; enhance our operational, financial and management processes, including our cross-functional decision-making processes and our budget prioritization systems; train and manage our global employee base; transition from a u.s.-centric company into an organization capable of developing and commercializing multiple drug candidates in international markets; and enhance our compliance and legal resources. risks associated with operating in foreign countries could materially adversely affect our business. we have expanded our international operations over the past several years in order to market kalydeco, prepare to market lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor, if approved, and expand our research and development capabilities. in 2014, a substantial portion of our revenues and expenses were associated with our foreign operations. new laws and industry codes in the european union and elsewhere have recently expanded transparency requirements regarding payments and transfers of value as well as patient-level clinical trial data, which will add to our compliance costs and expose us to potential sanctions for failing to meet the enhanced reporting demands in these jurisdictions. in addition, a significant portion of our commercial supply chain, including sourcing of raw materials and manufacturing, is located in china and the european union. consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to risks related to operating in foreign countries. risks associated with conducting operations in foreign countries include: differing regulatory requirements for drug approvals and regulation of approved drugs in foreign countries; collectibility of accounts receivable; unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements; economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; complying with local laws and regulations, which are interpreted and enforced differently across jurisdictions and which can change significantly over time; foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes; foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in reduced revenues or increased operating expenses, and other obligations incident to doing business or operating in another country; workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the united states; import and export licensing requirements, tariffs, and other trade and travel restrictions; production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and 38 business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism. our revenues are subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations due to the global nature of our operations. although we have foreign currency forward contracts to hedge forecasted product revenues denominated in foreign currencies, our efforts to reduce currency exchange losses may not be successful. as a result, currency fluctuations among our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar, and the currencies in which we do business will affect our operating results, often in unpredictable ways. in addition, our international operations are subject to regulation under u.s. law. for example, the foreign corrupt practices act prohibits u.s. companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad. in many countries, the health care professionals we regularly interact with may meet the definition of a foreign government official for purposes of the foreign corrupt practices act. we also are subject to import/export control laws. failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including the possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls, seizures, withdrawal of an approved product from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions, the prosecution of executives overseeing our international operations and corresponding bad publicity and negative perception of our company in foreign countries. our business has a substantial risk of product liability claims. if we do not obtain appropriate levels of insurance, product liability claims could adversely affect our business. our business exposes us to significant potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, clinical testing, manufacturing and sales and marketing of drugs and drug candidates. we have product liability insurance and clinical trial insurance in amounts that we believe are adequate to cover this risk. however, our insurance may not provide adequate coverage against all potential liabilities. if a claim is brought against us, we might be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as pay uncovered damage awards resulting from a claim brought successfully against us and these damages could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. furthermore, whether or not we are ultimately successful in defending any such claims, we might be required to direct significant financial and managerial resources to such defense and adverse publicity is likely to result. a breakdown or breach of our information technology systems could subject us to liability or interrupt the operation of our business. we maintain and rely extensively on information technology systems and network infrastructures for the effective operation of our business. a disruption, infiltration or failure of our information technology systems or any of our data centers as a result of software or hardware malfunctions, computer viruses, cyber attacks, employee theft or misuse, power disruptions, natural disasters, floods or accidents could cause breaches of data security and loss of critical data, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business and subject us to both private and governmental causes of action. while we have implemented security measures in an attempt to minimize these risks to our data and information technology systems, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business. if we fail to attract and retain skilled employees, our business could be materially harmed. because our drug discovery and development activities are highly technical in nature, we require the services of highly qualified and trained scientists who have the skills necessary to conduct these activities. in addition, we need to attract and retain employees with experience in marketing and commercialization of medicines. we face intense competition for our personnel from our competitors and other companies throughout our industry. we also experience competition for the hiring of scientific and clinical personnel from universities and research institutions. moreover, the growth of local biotechnology companies and the expansion of major pharmaceutical companies into the boston area have increased competition for the available pool of skilled employees, especially in technical fields, and the high cost of living in massachusetts makes it difficult to attract employees from other parts of the country to massachusetts. in addition, our october 2013 restructuring activities may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified employees. our ability to commercialize our products, and achieve our research and development objectives, depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands. if we are unable to hire and retain qualified personnel, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. 39 the loss of the services of key employees or the failure to effectively integrate key employees could negatively affect our business. our future success will depend in large part on our ability to retain the services of our key scientific and management personnel and to integrate new scientific and management personnel into our business. a loss of key personnel or a failure to properly integrate new personnel could be disruptive. we have entered into employment agreements with some executives and provide compensation-related benefits to all of our key employees that vest over time and therefore induce them to remain with us. however, the employment agreements can be terminated by the executive on relatively short notice. the value to employees of stock-related benefits that vest over time such as options and restricted stock is significantly affected by movements in our stock price, and may at any point in time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. a failure to retain, as well as hire, train and effectively integrate into our organization a sufficient number of qualified scientists, professionals, sales personnel and senior management would negatively affect our business. if we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected. our research and development efforts involve the regulated use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various controlled and radioactive compounds. although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by state, federal and foreign regulations, the risk of loss of, or accidental contamination or injury from, these materials cannot be eliminated. if an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. we also are subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. although we maintain workers' compensation insurance to cover us for costs we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. we maintain insurance to cover pollution conditions or other extraordinary or unanticipated events relating to our use and disposal of hazardous materials that we believe is appropriate based on the small amount of hazardous materials we generate. additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. we may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations. if our facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, our operations would be seriously harmed. most of our operations, including our research and development activities, are conducted in a limited number of facilities. if any of our major facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, due to a fire, earthquake or similar event, our operations could be seriously harmed. for example, our corporate headquarters, as well as additional leased space that we use for certain logistical and laboratory operations and manufacturing, are located in a flood zone along the massachusetts coast. any such losses at our facilities could disrupt our operations and result in a significant disruption in our research, development, manufacturing and/or commercial activities, the loss or critical data and/or large expenses to repair or replace the facility, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. risks related to holding our common stock and financing activities our indebtedness could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, and the terms of our credit agreement impose restrictions on our business, reducing our operational flexibility and creating default risks. in july 2014, we entered into a credit agreement that provides for a $300.0 million senior secured term loan. we are required to repay principal on the loan in installments of $15.0 million per quarter from october 1, 2015 through july 1, 2016 and in installments of $60.0 million per quarter from october 1, 2016 through july 9, 2017. our indebtedness could have important consequences to our business, including increasing our vulnerability to general adverse financial, business, economic and industry conditions, as well as other factors that are beyond our control. in october 2015, we will be required to begin repayment of the principal amount of our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of future cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes. the credit agreement requires that we maintain, on a quarterly basis, a minimum level of kalydeco net revenues. further, the credit agreement includes negative covenants, subject to exceptions, restricting or limiting our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, grant liens, engage in certain investment, 40 acquisition and disposition transactions, pay dividends, repurchase capital stock and enter into transactions with affiliates. as a result, we may be restricted from engaging in business activities that may otherwise improve our business. failure to comply with the covenants could result in an event of default that could trigger acceleration of our indebtedness, which would require us to repay all amounts owing under the credit agreement and/or our capital leases and could have a material adverse effect on our business. additionally, our obligations under the credit agreement are unconditionally guaranteed by certain of our domestic subsidiaries. all obligations under the credit agreement, and the guarantees of those obligations, are secured, subject to certain exceptions, by substantially all of our assets and the assets of all guarantors, including the pledge of all or a portion of the equity interests of certain of our subsidiaries. if we fail to satisfy our obligations under the credit agreement or are unable to obtain sufficient funds to make payments, the lenders could foreclose on our pledged collateral. our stock price may fluctuate. market prices for securities of companies such as ours are highly volatile. from january 1, 2014 to december 31, 2014, our common stock traded between $59.79 and $124.35 per share. the market for our stock, like that of other companies in the biotechnology industry, has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. the future market price of our securities could be significantly and adversely affected by factors such as: the information contained in our quarterly earnings releases, including our net product revenues and operating expenses for completed periods and guidance regarding future periods; announcements of fda actions with respect to our drugs or our competitors' drugs, or regulatory filings for our drug candidates or those of our competitors, or announcements of interim or final results of clinical trials or nonclinical studies relating to our drugs, drug candidates or those of our competitors; prescription data and other information disclosed by third parties regarding our business or products; technological innovations or the introduction of new drugs by our competitors; government regulatory action; public concern as to the safety of drugs developed by us or our competitors; developments in patent or other intellectual property rights or announcements relating to these matters; developments in domestic and international governmental policy or regulation, for example, relating to intellectual property rights; developments relating specifically to other companies and market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks or stocks in general; business development, capital structuring or financing activities; and general worldwide or national economic, political and capital market conditions. our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuation. our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past, and we expect that they will continue to do so in the future. factors that have caused quarterly fluctuations in the past include variable amounts of revenues, impairment charges, charges for excess and obsolete inventories, changes in the fair value of derivative instruments and the deconsolidation of alios. we cannot accurately predict our future revenues from our products, and our revenues from our products could vary on a quarterly basis. our revenues from our products may be affected by, among other factors, the timing of orders from our significant customers. our revenues also are subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations due to the global nature of our operations. although we have foreign currency forward contracts to hedge forecasted product revenues denominated in foreign currencies, our efforts to reduce currency exchange losses may not be successful. as a result, currency fluctuations among our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar, and the currencies in which we do business may affect our operating results, often in unpredictable ways. our quarterly results also could be materially affected by significant charges, which may or may not be similar to charges we have experienced in the past. most of our operating expenses relate 41 to our research and development activities, do not vary directly with the amount of revenues and are difficult to adjust in the short term. as a result, if revenues in a particular quarter are below expectations, we are unlikely to reduce operating expenses proportionately for that quarter. these examples are only illustrative and other risks, including those discussed in these risk factors, could also cause fluctuations in our reported financial results. our operating results during any one period do not necessarily suggest the results of future periods. we expect that results from our clinical development activities and the clinical development activities of our competitors will continue to be released periodically, and may result in significant volatility in the price of our common stock. any new information regarding our products and drug candidates or competitive products or potentially competitive drug candidates can substantially affect investors' perceptions regarding our future prospects. we, our collaborators and our competitors periodically provide updates regarding drug development programs, typically through press releases, conference calls and presentations at medical conferences. these periodic updates often include interim or final results from clinical trials conducted by us or our competitors and/or information about our or our competitors' expectations regarding regulatory filings and submissions as well as future clinical development of our products or drug candidates, competitive products or potentially competitive drug candidates. the timing of the release of information by us regarding our drug development programs is often beyond our control and is influenced by the timing of receipt of data from our clinical trials and by the general preference among pharmaceutical companies to disclose clinical data during medical conferences. in addition, the information disclosed about our clinical trials, or our competitors' clinical trials, may be based on interim rather than final data that may involve interpretation difficulties and may in any event not accurately predict final results. we could be negatively affected by securities class action complaints. on may 28, 2014, a purported shareholder class action local no. 8 ibew retirement plan &amp; trust v. vertex pharmaceuticals incorporated, et al. was filed in the united states district court for the district of massachusetts, naming us and certain of our current and former officers and directors as defendants. the lawsuit alleged that we made material misrepresentations and/or omissions of material fact in our disclosures during the period from may 7, 2012 through may 29, 2012, all in violation of section 10(b) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, and rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder. the purported class consists of all persons (excluding defendants) who purchased our common stock between may 7, 2012 and may 29, 2012. the plaintiffs seek unspecified monetary damages, costs and attorneys' fees as well as disgorgement of the proceeds from certain individual defendants' sales of our stock. on october 8, 2014, the court approved local no. 8 ibew retirement fund as lead plaintiff, and scott and scott llp as lead counsel for the plaintiff and the putative class. we filed a motion to dismiss the complaint on december 8, 2014 and the plaintiffs filed their opposition to our motion to dismiss on january 22, 2015. we believe that this action is without merit and intend to defend it vigorously. this action will take time and money to defend and may distract us from more productive activities. no assurance can be provided that we will be successful in defending this claim or that insurance proceeds will be sufficient to cover any liability under such claims. we may need to raise additional capital that may not be available. we expect to incur losses in 2015 and may in the future need to raise additional capital. we have borrowed $300.0 million under a credit agreement that we entered into in the third quarter of 2014. in recent periods, we also have received significant proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our employee benefit plans, but the amount and timing of future proceeds from employee benefits plans is uncertain. any potential public offering, private placement or debt financing may or may not be similar to the transactions that we entered into in the past. any debt financing may be on terms that, among other things, include conversion features that could result in dilution to our then-existing security holders and restrict our ability to pay interest and dividends although we do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. additionally, our pledge of our assets as collateral to secure our obligations under our credit agreement may limit our ability to obtain additional debt financing. any equity financings would result in dilution to our then-existing security holders. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be required to curtail significantly or discontinue one or more of our research, drug discovery or development programs, including clinical trials, incur significant cash exit costs, or attempt to obtain funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, drugs or drug candidates. based on many factors, including general economic conditions, additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. 42 issuances of additional shares of our common stock could cause the price of our common stock to decline. as of december 31, 2014 , we had 241.8 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. as of december 31, 2014 , we also had outstanding options to purchase 12.0 million shares of common stock with a weighted-average exercise price of $56.81 per share. outstanding vested options are likely to be exercised if the market price of our common stock exceeds the applicable exercise price, and, in the future, we expect to issue additional options and restricted stock to directors and employees. in addition, we may issue additional common stock or restricted securities in the future as part of financing activities or business development activities and any such issuances may have a dilutive effect on our then-existing shareholders. sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market, or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. the issuance of restricted common stock or common stock upon exercise of any outstanding options would be dilutive, and may cause the market price for a share of our common stock to decline. we have adopted anti-takeover provisions and are subject to massachusetts corporate laws that may frustrate any attempt to remove or replace our current management or effectuate a business combination involving vertex. our corporate charter and by-law provisions and massachusetts state laws may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change of control of vertex that might be beneficial to us or our security holders. our charter provides for staggered terms for the members of the board of directors. our by-laws grant the directors a right to adjourn annual meetings of shareholders, and certain provisions of our by-laws may be amended only with an 80% shareholder vote. we may issue shares of any class or series of preferred stock in the future without shareholder approval and upon such terms as our board of directors may determine. the rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any class or series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. massachusetts state law prohibits us from engaging in specified business combinations, unless the combination is approved or consummated in a prescribed manner, and prohibits voting by any shareholder who acquires 20% or more of our voting stock without shareholder approval. as a result, shareholders or other parties may find it more difficult to remove or replace our current management. special note regarding forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k and, in particular, the description of our business set forth in item 1, the risk factors set forth in this item 1a and our management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations set forth in item 7 contain or incorporate a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding: expectations regarding the result and timing of our pending applications for marketing approval for lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor; our expectations regarding the amount of, timing of and trends with respect to our revenues, costs and expenses and other gains and losses, including those related to net product revenues from kalydeco and potential net product revenues from lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor; our expectations regarding clinical trials, development timelines and regulatory authority filings and submissions for ivacaftor, lumacaftor, vx-661 and combinations thereof; our ability to successfully market our products or any of our other drug candidates for which we obtain regulatory approval; our expectations regarding the timing and structure of clinical trials of our drugs and drug candidates, including, ivacaftor, lumacaftor, vx-661, vx-210, vx-803 and vx-970, and the expected timing of our receipt of data from our ongoing and planned clinical trials; the data that will be generated by ongoing and planned clinical trials and the ability to use that data to advance compounds, continue development or support regulatory filings; our beliefs regarding the support provided by clinical trials and preclinical and nonclinical studies of our drug candidates for further investigation, clinical trials or potential use as a treatment; 43 our plan to continue investing in our research and development programs and our strategy to develop our drug candidates, alone or with third party-collaborators; the establishment, development and maintenance of collaborative relationships; potential business development activities; potential fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; our ability to use our research programs to identify and develop new drug candidates to address serious diseases and significant unmet medical needs; and our liquidity and our expectations regarding the possibility of raising additional capital. any or all of our forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k may turn out to be wrong. they can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. many factors mentioned in this annual report on form 10-k will be important in determining future results. consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. actual future results may vary materially from expected results. we also provide a cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties under risk factors above in this item 1a. these are factors and uncertainties that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results. other factors and uncertainties besides those listed there could also adversely affect us. without limiting the foregoing, the words believes, anticipates, plans, intends, expects and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. there are a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control, including the factors and uncertainties set forth under risk factors above in this item 1a. in addition, the forward-looking statements contained herein represent our estimate only as of the date of this filing and should not be relied upon as representing our estimate as of any subsequent date. while we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 66 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk as part of our investment portfolio, we own financial instruments that are sensitive to market risks. the investment portfolio is used to preserve our capital until it is required to fund operations, including our research and development activities. none of these market risk-sensitive instruments are held for trading purposes. we do not have derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. interest rate risk we invest our cash in a variety of financial instruments, principally securities issued by the u.s. government and its agencies, investment-grade corporate bonds and commercial paper, and money market funds. these investments are denominated in u.s. dollars. all of our interest-bearing securities are subject to interest rate risk and could decline in value if interest rates fluctuate. substantially all of our investment portfolio consists of marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to help ensure portfolio liquidity, and we have implemented guidelines limiting the term-to-maturity of our investment instruments. due to the conservative nature of these instruments, we do not believe that we have a material exposure to interest rate risk. foreign exchange market risk as a result of our foreign operations, we face exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the euro, swiss franc, british pound, australian dollar and canadian dollar against the u.s. dollar. the current exposures arise primarily from cash, accounts receivable, intercompany receivables, payables and inventories. both positive and negative affects to our net revenues from international product sales from movements in foreign currency exchange rates are partially mitigated by the natural, opposite affect that foreign currency exchange rates have on our international operating costs and expenses. we have a foreign currency management program with the objective of reducing the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results and forecasted revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies. the change in fair value of these foreign currency forward contracts included in accumulated other comprehensive loss and the gross fair value of foreign currency forward assets and liabilities included on the consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2014 were not material.risk factors 24 risk factors risk factors investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk, and you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k. if any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer, possibly materially. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. risks related to our business our business and future revenues depend heavily on our ability to successfully commercialize orkambi. if we are unable to do so, or if reimbursement levels agreed to by third-party payors are unfavorable or do not meet the expectations of investors or public equity market analysts, our business will be materially harmed and the market price of our common stock would likely decline . we believe that a significant portion of the value attributed to our company by investors is based on the commercial potential of orkambi, which was approved in the united states in july 2015 and the european union in november 2015 for the treatment of patients with cf twelve years of age and older who are homozygous for the f508del mutation in their cftr gene. while we recognized our first net product revenues from sales of orkambi in the united states in the second half of 2015, we are in the early stages of the commercial launch of this product and are unable to predict the future level of net product revenues we will recognize from sales of orkambi in the united states. outside of the united states, we do not expect to recognize significant orkambi net product revenues in 2016 other than in germany due to the time it takes to complete the reimbursement discussions in many ex-u.s. countries. if orkambi were to become subject to problems such as safety or efficacy issues, the introduction or greater acceptance of competing products, changes in reimbursement policies of payors and other third parties, or adverse legal, administrative, regulatory or legislative developments, our ability to commercialize orkambi would be impaired and our stock price would likely decline. in addition, our ability to successfully commercialize orkambi is dependent on, among other things, the rate at which patients initiate treatment of orkambi, the proportion of initiated patients who remain on treatment and the compliance rate for patients who remain on treatment. since the regulations that govern pricing, coverage and reimbursement for drugs vary widely from country to country, there is no assurance that coverage and reimbursement will be available outside of the united states and, even if it is available, the level of reimbursement may not be satisfactory. adverse pricing limitations or a delay in obtaining coverage and reimbursement would decrease our future net product revenues and harm our business. our future success also is dependent on our ability to expand the number of cf patients who are eligible for treatment with orkambi. we recently completed a phase 3 clinical trial evaluating lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor for the treatment of patients with cf six to eleven years of age who are homozygous for the f508del mutation in their cftr gene. the clinical trial met its primary safety endpoint and data from the clinical trial showed that the combination was generally well-tolerated. based on these results, we plan to submit a snda to the fda in the second quarter of 2016 seeking approval for patients with cf six to eleven years of age who are homozygous for the f508del mutation in their cftr gene. a second phase 3 clinical trial evaluating lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor in this same patient population to support approval in the european union is ongoing. in order to expand the market to this patient population in the european union, the clinical trial will need to demonstrate that orkambi is both safe and effective for the treatment of these patients. these clinical trials and our discussions with regulatory authorities are subject to the same risks and uncertainties that are described in these risk factors with respect to the development of our drug candidates. there can be no assurance that the results from these clinical trials, or the data included in our submissions to regulatory authorities, will be sufficient to obtain approval for the use of lumacaftor in combination with ivacaftor in this additional patient population. our business is dependent on kalydeco net product revenues and if we are unable to sustain our kalydeco net product revenues, our business will be materially harmed and the market price of our common stock would decline . kalydeco net product revenues represented approximately 61.2% and 79.9% of our total revenues in 2015 and 2014, respectively, and we expect kalydeco net product revenues to continue to represent a substantial portion of our total revenues in future periods. if we are unable to sustain kalydeco net products revenues for any reason, such as safety or efficacy issues, the introduction or greater acceptance of competing products, changes in reimbursement policies of payors 24 and other third parties, or adverse legal, administrative, regulatory or legislative developments, our ability to commercialize kalydeco would be impaired and our product revenues would decrease and our financial position and stock price would be materially harmed. in addition, our success is dependent on our ability to continue to expand the label for kalydeco and to increase the number of patients eligible and reimbursed for treatment with kalydeco in the united states and ex-u.s. markets. in the first quarter of 2016, we expect to initiate a clinical trial for ivacaftor in patients with cf less than two years of age to evaluate the effect of ivacaftor on markers of cf disease in young children. there can be no assurance that the data from this clinical trial will be sufficient to obtain approval for ivacaftor in this patient population. additionally, in february 2016, we received a complete response letter from the fda regarding our snda for ivacaftor for patients with cf two years of age and older who have one of 23 residual function mutations. the fda determined that it cannot approve the snda in its present form. while we plan to meet with the fda regarding the snda to determine an appropriate path forward, there can be no assurance that the outcome from these discussions will be sufficient to obtain approval for ivacaftor in this patient population. we have a history of incurring losses, and we cannot predict the extent of our future profitability. we have incurred significant operating losses in each of the last three years. our future revenues will be dependent on our ability to successfully commercialize orkambi and on continued sales of kalydeco. our ability to achieve and sustain profitability depends on the extent to which we can increase our revenue and control our costs in order to, among other things, counter any unforeseen difficulties, complications or other unknown factors that may impair future revenue or require additional expenditures. because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with pharmaceutical product development, we are unable to predict the extent of our future profitability or losses. as an example, we briefly achieved profitability in 2011 based on strong initial sales of incivek but subsequently returned to incurring losses after experiencing a rapid decline in the number of patients being treated with incivek. if we are unable to sustain sales of kalydeco and increase sales of orkambi, we may not achieve and/or sustain profitability. if our competitors bring drugs with superior product profiles to market, our drugs may not be competitive and our revenues could decline. orkambi, kalydeco and any drugs that we develop in the future may not be able to compete effectively with marketed drugs or new drugs that may be developed by competitors. there are many other companies developing drugs for the same indications that we are pursuing. in order to compete successfully in these areas, we must demonstrate improved safety, efficacy and/or tolerability, and ease of manufacturing, and gain and maintain market acceptance over competing drugs. many of our competitors, including major pharmaceutical companies such as abbvie, bristol-myers squibb, gilead, johnson &amp; johnson, merck, novartis, pfizer, sanofi and roche, possess substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we possess. potential competitors also include other public and private companies, academic institutions, government agencies, other public and private research organizations and charitable venture philanthropy organizations that conduct research, seek patent protection and/or establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and commercialization. as an example, we experienced a rapid decline in the number of patients being treated with incivek in 2013 and 2014. mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may result in even more resources being concentrated among a smaller number of our competitors. smaller and other early-stage companies also may prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. these third parties compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to, or necessary for, our programs. a number of companies are seeking to identify and develop drug candidates for the treatment of cf, including concert pharmaceuticals, genzyme, which is a division of sanofi, novartis, pfizer, proqr therapeutics, ptc therapeutics, shire and several private companies. our competitors have research and development programs directed at identifying cftr potentiators, cftr correctors, enac inhibitors and drug candidates with other mechanisms of action or that utilize new therapeutic approaches that seek to address the underlying cause of cf. our success in rapidly developing and commercializing kalydeco and orkambi may increase the resources that our competitors allocate to the development of these potential treatments for cf. if one or more competing therapies are successfully developed as a treatment for patients with cf, our revenues from orkambi, kalydeco and/or other compounds, if then approved, could face 25 competitive pressures. if one or more competing therapies prove to be superior to our existing products and/or drug candidates for the treatment of cf, our business would be materially adversely affected. if we discover safety issues with any of our products or if we fail to comply with continuing u.s. and applicable foreign regulations, commercialization efforts for the product could be negatively affected, the approved product could lose its approval or sales could be suspended, and our business could be materially harmed. our products are subject to continuing regulatory oversight, including the review of additional safety information. drugs are more widely used by patients once approval has been obtained and therefore side-effects and other problems may be observed after approval that were not seen or anticipated, or were not as prevalent or severe, during pre-approval clinical trials or nonclinical studies. for example, in december 2012, we updated the incivek label in the united states to include a boxed warning stating that fatal and non-fatal serious skin reactions have been reported in patients taking incivek combination treatment. the subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a product could negatively affect commercial sales of the product, result in restrictions on the product or lead to the withdrawal of the product from the market. each of our two commercial products and our most advanced drug candidates, contain ivacaftor, either alone or in combination with one or more other compounds. as a result, if either of our products were to experience safety issues, both orkambi and kalydeco, as well as one or more of our drug candidates, may be adversely affected. the reporting of adverse safety events involving our products or public speculation about such events could cause our stock price to decline or experience periods of volatility. if we or our collaborators fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we or our collaborators may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals for specific products, product recalls and seizures, operating restrictions and/or criminal prosecutions. in addition, the manufacturers we engage to make our products and the manufacturing facilities in which our products are made are subject to periodic review and inspection by the fda and foreign regulatory authorities. if problems are identified during the review or inspection of these manufacturers or manufacturing facilities, it could result in our inability to use the facility to make our product or a determination that inventories are not safe for commercial sale. if physicians, patients and third-party payors do not accept our drugs, we may be unable to generate significant revenues in future periods. our drugs may not gain or maintain market acceptance among physicians and patients. effectively marketing our drugs and any of our drug candidates, if approved, requires substantial efforts, both prior to launch and after approval. physicians may elect not to prescribe our drugs, and patients may elect not to request or take them, for a variety of reasons including: prevalence and severity of adverse side-effects; lack of reimbursement availability from third-party payors; lower demonstrated efficacy, safety and/or tolerability compared to other drugs; lack of cost-effectiveness; a decision to wait for the approval of other therapies in development that have significant perceived advantages over our drug; convenience and ease of administration; other potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; and ineffective sales, marketing and/or distribution support. if our drugs fail to achieve or maintain market acceptance, we will not be able to generate significant revenues in future periods. 26 government and other third-party payors seek to contain costs of health care through legislative and other means. if they fail to provide coverage and adequate reimbursement rates for our products, our revenues will be harmed. in both domestic and foreign markets, our sales of products depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. third-party payors include government health programs such as medicare and medicaid in the united states and the national health care systems in many international markets, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. the trend in the u.s. health care industry and elsewhere is cost containment and efforts of third-party payors to contain or reduce health care costs that may adversely affect our ability to establish or maintain appropriate prices for our products or any drugs that we may develop and commercialize. in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of therapeutic and other pharmaceutical products is subject to governmental control. reimbursement agencies in europe are often more conservative than those in the united states and the reimbursement process is often slower since reimbursement decisions are made on a country-by-country basis. in the united states, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental control as currently exists in europe. moreover, certain presidential candidates in the united states have announced an interest in further regulation of the prices of pharmaceutical products. the aca requires discounts under the medicare drug benefit program and increased the rebates paid by pharmaceutical companies on drugs covered by medicaid. the aca also imposes an annual fee, which increases annually, on sales by branded pharmaceutical manufacturers. in addition, third-party payors attempt to contain health care costs by demanding price discounts or rebates and limiting both the types and variety of drugs that they will cover and the amounts that they will pay for drugs. as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our products. we might need to conduct post-marketing studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of our products or any other future products to such payors' satisfaction. such studies might require us to commit a significant amount of management's time and our financial and other resources. our products might not ultimately be considered cost-effective. adequate third-party reimbursement might not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. reimbursement rates vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost products that already are reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other products or services and may reflect budgetary constraints and/or imperfections in the data used to calculate these rates. net prices for products are reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs and privately-negotiated discounts. while we have implemented policies in an effort to comply with mandated reimbursement rates, the u.s. federal government, state governments and private payors frequently pursue actions against pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies alleging that the companies have overstated prices in order to inflate reimbursement rates. any such action could adversely affect the pricing of and revenues from our products. additionally, in the united states and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals and initiatives to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell products. some of these proposed and implemented reforms have resulted, or could result, in reduced reimbursement rates for our current or future products, which would adversely affect our business, operations and financial results. specialty pharmaceuticals are drugs that are prescribed by specialist physicians to treat rare or life-threatening conditions and typically address smaller patient populations. each of our products is a specialty pharmaceutical product, and our research and development programs are primarily focused on developing additional specialty pharmaceutical products. the increasing availability and use of innovative specialty pharmaceuticals, combined with their relative higher cost as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products, is beginning to generate significant third-party payor interest in developing cost-containment strategies targeted to this sector. government regulations in both non-u.s. and u.s markets could limit the prices that can be charged for our products and may limit our commercial opportunity. the increasing use of health technology assessments in markets around the world and the financial challenges faced by many governments may lead to significant adverse effects on our business. any legislation or regulatory changes or relaxation of laws that restrict imports of drugs from other countries also could reduce the net price we receive for our products. 27 if regulatory authorities interpret any of our conduct as being in violation of applicable health care laws, including fraud and abuse laws, laws prohibiting off-label promotion, disclosure laws or other similar laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. we are subject to health care fraud and abuse laws, such as the federal false claims act and the anti-kickback provisions of the federal social security act, laws prohibiting off-label product promotion and other similar laws and regulations both in united states and in non-u.s. markets. while we have a corporate compliance program designed to actively identify, prevent and mitigate risk through the implementation of compliance policies and systems and the promotion of a culture of compliance, if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws our business could be materially harmed. the federal anti-kickback law prohibits knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the ordering, furnishing, arranging for or recommending of an item or service that is reimbursable, in whole or in part, by a federal health care program, such as medicare or medicaid. the federal statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, patients, purchasers and formulary managers on the other hand, and therefore constrains our marketing practices and our various service arrangements with physicians, including physicians who make clinical decisions to use our products. although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly and courts generally will apply a one purpose test and find a violation of the law if any part of the intent in providing the remuneration was to induce referrals, even if it also was intended to compensate for professional services or other legitimate purposes. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in promotion for uses that the fda has not approved, known as off-label uses, that caused claims to be submitted to medicaid for non-covered off-label uses; submitting inflated best price information to the medicaid rebate program; and certain manufacturing-related violations. the scope of this and other laws may expand in ways that make compliance more difficult and expensive. although physicians are permitted, based on their medical judgment, to prescribe products for indications other than those approved by the fda, manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products for such off-label uses. we market orkambi and kalydeco to eligible cf patients for whom the applicable product has been approved and provide promotional materials and training programs to physicians regarding the use of orkambi and kalydeco in these patient populations. these eligible patients represent only a portion of the total patients with cf. if the fda determines that our promotional materials, training or other activities constitute off-label promotion, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or other activities, conduct corrective advertising or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. it also is possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they believe that the alleged improper promotion led to the submission and payment of claims for an off-label use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. even if it is later determined we were not in violation of these laws, we may be faced with negative publicity, incur significant expenses defending our actions and have to divert significant management resources from other matters. also applicable to some of our practices is the health insurance portability and accountability act, or hipaa, and its implementing regulations, which created federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program or making false statements relating to health care matters and which also imposes certain regulatory and contractual requirements regarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. in addition to hipaa, numerous other federal and state laws, including state security breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws and federal and state consumer protection laws, govern the collection, use and disclosure of personal information. various foreign countries also have, or are developing, laws governing the collection, use and transmission of personal information. the legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing amount of focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect our business. we have in the past relied on adherence to the u.s.-eu safe harbor framework as agreed to and set forth by the 28 u.s. department of commerce and the european union, which established a means for legitimizing the transfer of personal information by u.s. companies doing business in europe from the european economic area to the united states. as a result of a recent opinion of the european union court of justice, the u.s.-eu safe harbor framework is now deemed to be an invalid method of compliance with restrictions regarding the transfer of data outside of the european economic area. while we are engaging in efforts to address the implications of this opinion, we may be unsuccessful in these efforts. failure to comply with laws regarding data protection would expose us to risk of enforcement actions taken by data protection authorities in the european union and the potential for significant penalties if we are found to be non-compliant. even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could harm our business. in recent years, several states and localities have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, health care provider payments and other activities. additionally, as part of the aca, the federal government enacted the physician payment sunshine act provisions. the physician payment sunshine act provisions require pharmaceutical manufacturers to report annually to the secretary of hhs payments or other transfers of value made by that entity to physicians and teaching hospitals. we also now have similar reporting obligations in certain european countries and the european federation of pharmaceutical industries and associations has adopted a code that will require us to begin reporting such information throughout the european union in 2016. we will also have similar reporting obligations in australia beginning in 2016. we expended significant efforts to establish, and are continuing to devote significant resources to maintain and enhance, systems and processes in order to comply with these regulations. failure to comply with the reporting requirements would result in significant civil monetary penalties. the aca also includes various provisions designed to strengthen significantly fraud and abuse enforcement, such as increased funding for enforcement efforts and the lowering of the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback statute and criminal health care fraud statute such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. on january 1, 2015, the ema adopted a new policy on publication of clinical data whereby it will publish clinical reports submitted as part of maas for drugs. the policy applies to all clinical reports submitted after january 1, 2015 and the reports will be released as soon as a decision on the application has been made by the ema. while implementation of this policy is ongoing and its full effect on our business is not yet known, the ability of third-parties to review and/or analyze the raw data from our clinical trials may increase the risk of patient confidentiality breaches and could result in enhanced scrutiny of our clinical trials results. such scrutiny could result in misconceptions being spread about our drugs and drug candidates, even if the underlying analysis of such review turns out to be flawed. these publications could also result in the disclosure of information to our competitors that we might otherwise deem confidential, which could harm our competitive position. if our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any such laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from federal health care programs and/or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. the risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are subject to a variety of interpretations. any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. the sales and marketing practices of our industry have been the subject of increased scrutiny from governmental entities in the united sates and other countries in which we market our products, and we believe that this trend will continue. we have in place policies to govern how we may retain health care professionals as consultants that reflect the current climate on this issue and are providing training on these policies. any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, also could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. the increasing use of social media platforms presents new risks and challenges. social media increasingly is being used by third parties to communicate about our products and drug candidates and the diseases our therapies are designed to treat. we believe that members of the cf community may be more active on social media as compared to other patient populations due to the demographics of this patient population. social media practices in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are evolving, which creates uncertainty and risk of noncompliance with regulations applicable to our business. for example, patients may use social media platforms to comment on the 29 effectiveness of, or adverse experiences with, a drug or a drug candidate, which could result in reporting obligations. in addition, there is a risk of inappropriate disclosure of sensitive information or negative or inaccurate posts or comments about us on any social networking website. if any of these events were to occur or we otherwise fail to comply with applicable regulations, we could incur liability, face restrictive regulatory actions or incur other harm to our business. risks related to development, clinical testing and regulation of our products and drug candidates our drug candidates remain subject to clinical testing and regulatory approval. if we are unable to successfully develop additional drug candidates, and in particular our next-generation cftr combination regimens, our business will be materially harmed. our business depends upon the successful development and commercialization of drug candidates. these drug candidates are in various stages of development and must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before they can be approved for sale by the fda or comparable foreign regulatory authorities. to satisfy these standards, we must allocate resources among our various development programs and must engage in expensive and lengthy testing of our drug candidates. discovery and development efforts for new pharmaceutical products, including new combination therapies, are resource-intensive and may take 10 to 15 years or longer for each drug candidate. despite our efforts, our drug candidates may not: offer therapeutic or other improvement over existing competitive therapies; be proven safe and effective in clinical trials; meet applicable regulatory standards; be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs; or if approved for commercial sale, be successfully marketed as pharmaceutical products. we have recently completed and/or have ongoing or planned clinical trials for several of our drug candidates, including drug candidates for the treatment of cf, oncology, pain and neurology. the strength of our company's product portfolio and pipeline will depend in large part upon the outcomes of these clinical trials and our ability to develop and commercialize combination treatments for cf that include ivacaftor in combination with (i) vx-661 and/or (ii) our next-generation cftr corrector compounds, including vx-152 and vx-440. results of our clinical trials and findings from our nonclinical studies, including toxicology findings in nonclinical studies conducted concurrently with clinical trials, could lead to abrupt changes in our development activities, including the possible cessation of development activities associated with a particular drug candidate or program. moreover, clinical data are often susceptible of varying interpretations and analyses, and many companies that have believed their drug candidates performed satisfactorily in clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain marketing approval of their drug candidate. furthermore, results from our clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the fda or other regulatory authorities for approval of a drug candidate. many companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including our company, have suffered significant setbacks in later-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in earlier-stage clinical trials. accordingly, the results from completed preclinical studies and clinical trials may not be replicated in later clinical trials, and ongoing clinical trials for our drug candidates may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later-stage clinical trials or of the likelihood of approval of a drug candidate for commercial sale. in addition, from time to time we report interim data from our clinical trials. interim data from a clinical trial may not be predictive of final results from the clinical trial. if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval, we will be unable to commercialize our drug candidates. the time required to complete clinical trials and to satisfy the fda and other countries' regulatory review processes is uncertain and typically takes many years. our analysis of data obtained from nonclinical and clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. we also may encounter unanticipated delays or increased costs due to government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in governmental policy during the period of drug development, clinical trials and governmental regulatory review. we may seek a fast track and/or breakthrough therapy designation for some of our drug candidates. for example, ivacaftor was granted fast-track designation in the united states and a number of our drugs and drug candidates, including 30 ivacaftor and the combination regimens of lumacaftor with ivacaftor and vx-661 with ivacaftor, were designated as breakthrough therapies. drug candidates that receive one or both of these designations may be eligible for, among other things, an accelerated regulatory review. each of these designations is within the discretion of the fda. accordingly, even if we believe one of our drug candidates meets the criteria for fast track and/or breakthrough therapy designation, the fda may disagree and instead determine not to make such designation. the receipt of one or both of these designations for a drug candidate does not guarantee a faster development process, review or approval compared to drugs considered for approval under conventional fda procedures and does not assure ultimate approval by the fda. in addition, even if one or more of our drugs or drug candidates qualifies for fast track and/or breakthrough therapy designation, the fda may later decide to withdraw such designation if it determines that the drug or drug candidate no longer meets the conditions for qualification. any failure to obtain regulatory approvals for a drug candidate would prevent us from commercializing that drug candidate. any delay in obtaining required regulatory approvals could materially adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize a drug candidate. furthermore, any regulatory approval to market a drug may be subject to limitations that we do not expect on the indicated uses for which we may market the drug. any such limitations could reduce the size of the market for the drug. we also are subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement. non-u.s. jurisdictions have different approval procedures than those required by the fda, and these jurisdictions may impose additional testing requirements for our drug candidates. the foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with the fda approval process described above, as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of foreign requirements. approval by the fda does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities outside the united states and approval by a foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by the fda. in addition, although the fda may accept data from clinical trials conducted outside the united states, acceptance of this data is subject to conditions imposed by the fda. for example, the clinical trial must be well designed and conducted and performed by qualified investigators in accordance with ethical principles. the trial population also must adequately represent the u.s. population, and the data must be applicable to the u.s. population and u.s. medical practice in ways that the fda deems clinically meaningful. in addition, while these clinical trials are subject to the applicable local laws, fda acceptance of the data will depend on its determination that the trials also complied with all applicable u.s. laws and regulations. if the fda does not accept the data from any trial that we conduct outside the united states, it would likely result in the need for additional trials, which would be costly and time-consuming and delay or permanently halt our development of the applicable drug candidate. if clinical trials are prolonged or delayed, our development timelines for the affected development program could be extended, our costs to develop the drug candidate could increase and the competitive position of the drug candidate could be adversely affected. we cannot predict whether or not we will encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause us or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend clinical trials, or delay the analysis of data from our completed or ongoing clinical trials. among the factors that could delay our development programs are: ongoing discussions with the fda or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials and the number of clinical trials we must conduct; delays in enrolling volunteers or patients into clinical trials, including as a result of low numbers of patients that meet the eligibility criteria for the trial; a lower than anticipated retention rate of volunteers or patients in clinical trials; the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive results, unforeseen complications in testing or clinical investigator error; inadequate supply or deficient quality of drug candidate materials or other materials necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials; unfavorable fda or foreign regulatory authority inspection and review of a manufacturing facility that supplied clinical trial materials or its relevant manufacturing records or a clinical trial site or records of any clinical or preclinical investigation; 31 unfavorable scientific results from clinical trials; serious and unexpected drug-related side-effects experienced by participants in our clinical trials or by participants in clinical trials being conducted by our competitors to evaluate drug candidates with similar mechanisms of action or structures to drug candidates that we are developing; favorable results in testing of our competitors' drug candidates, or fda or foreign regulatory authority approval of our competitors' drug candidates; or action by the fda or a foreign regulatory authority to place a clinical hold or partial clinical hold on a trial or compound or deeming the clinical trial conduct as problematic. our ability to enroll patients in our clinical trials in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis is subject to a number of factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the number of other clinical trials ongoing and competing for patients in the same indication and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. in addition, patients may drop out of our clinical trials or may be lost to follow-up medical evaluation after treatment ends, and this could impair the validity or statistical significance of the trials. delays in patient enrollment or unforeseen drop-out rates may result in increased costs and longer development times. we, our collaborators, the fda or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a drug candidate at any time if we or they believe the healthy volunteers or patients participating in such clinical trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. for example, in july 2013, the fda placed a partial clinical hold on vx-135, a drug candidate we were developing for the treatment of patients with hepatitis c virus infection. any such suspension could materially adversely affect the development of a particular drug candidate and our business. if our processes and systems are not compliant with regulatory requirements, we could be subject to restrictions on marketing our products or could be delayed in submitting regulatory filings seeking approvals for our drug candidates. we have a number of regulated processes and systems that are required to obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our drugs and drug candidates. these processes and systems are subject to continual review and periodic inspection by the fda and other regulatory bodies. in addition, the clinical research organizations and other third parties that we work with in our non-clinical studies and clinical trials and our oversight of such parties are subject to similar reviews and periodic inspection by the fda and other regulatory bodies. if compliance issues are identified at any point in the development and approval process, we may experience delays in filing for regulatory approval for our drug candidates, or delays in obtaining regulatory approval after filing. any later discovery of previously unknown problems or safety issues with approved drugs or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in restrictions on such drugs or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of drugs from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal penalties or a refusal by the fda and/or other regulatory bodies to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we are a party to agreements that transfer responsibility for complying with specified regulatory requirements, such as filing and maintenance of marketing authorizations and safety reporting or compliance with manufacturing requirements, to our collaborators and third-party manufacturers. if our collaborators or third-party manufacturers do not fulfill these regulatory obligations, any drugs for which we or they obtain approval may be subject to later restrictions on manufacturing or sale, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. risks related to collaborations and other business development activities our ability to execute on our long-term strategy depends in part on our ability to acquire rights to additional drugs, drug candidates and other technologies that have the potential to add to our pipeline or provide us with new commercial opportunities. in order to achieve our long-term business objectives, our strategy is to supplement our internal pipeline by acquiring rights to additional drugs, drug candidates and other technologies that have the potential to provide us with new commercial opportunities. we may not be able to acquire, in-license or otherwise obtain rights to additional drugs, drug candidates or other technologies on acceptable terms or at all. we have faced and will continue to face significant competition for these types of drugs, drug candidates and other technologies from a variety of other companies with interests in the specialty pharmaceutical marketplace, many of which have significantly more financial resources and experience in business 32 development activities than we have. in addition, non-profit organizations may be willing to provide capital to the companies that control additional drugs, drug candidates or technologies, which may provide incentives for companies to advance these drugs, drug candidates or technologies independently. because of these competitive pressures, the cost of acquiring, in-licensing or otherwise obtaining rights to such drugs, drug candidates or other technologies has grown dramatically in recent years and may be at levels that we cannot afford or that we believe are not justified by market potential. this competition is most intense for approved drugs and late-stage drug candidates, which have the lowest risk and would have the most immediate effect on our financial performance. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of potential acquisitions or licenses to businesses, drugs, drug candidates and other technologies, and the integration following any such acquisition or license may disrupt our business and management. we may acquire a business or the rights to drugs, drug candidates or other technologies. for example, in 2015, we entered into a collaboration with parion pursuant to which we exclusively licensed investigational enac inhibitors, including vx-371 (formerly p-1037), for the potential treatment of cf and other pulmonary diseases. we also entered into an agreement with crispr to collaborate on the discovery and development of potential new treatments aimed at the underlying genetic causes of human diseases using crispr-cas9 gene editing technology. with respect to each of these transactions and any additional acquisition of a business or rights to drugs, drug candidates or other technologies, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of such transaction, each of which involves numerous risks. these risks include: failure to successfully further develop the acquired or licensed drugs or technology or to achieve strategic objectives, including successfully developing and commercializing the drugs, drug candidates or technologies that we acquire or license; inadequate or unfavorable data from clinical trials evaluating the acquired or licensed drug or drug candidates; entry into markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience or where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management and employees from other opportunities and challenges; potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired company, or acquired or licensed product or technology, including but not limited to, problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges with respect to intellectual property, product quality, safety, accounting practices, employee, customer or third party relations and other known and unknown liabilities; liability for activities of the acquired company or licensor before the acquisition or license, including intellectual property infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities; exposure to litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risk as a result of an acquisition or license, including but not limited to, claims from terminated employees, customers, former equity holders or other third-parties; difficulty in integrating the drugs, drug candidates, technologies, business operations and personnel of an acquired company; and difficulties in the integration of the acquired company's departments, systems, including accounting, human resource and other administrative systems, technologies, books and records, and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards, controls, including internal control over financial reporting required by the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and related procedures and policies. acquisitions and licensing arrangements are inherently risky, and ultimately, if we do not complete an announced acquisition or license transaction or integrate an acquired business, or an acquired or licensed drug, drug candidate or other technology successfully and in a timely manner, we may not realize the benefits of the acquisition or license to the extent anticipated and the perception of the effectiveness of our management team and our company may suffer in the marketplace. additionally, we may later incur impairment charges related to assets acquired in any such transaction. for example, we 33 acquired or licensed several drug candidates for the treatment of hcv infection, but due to adverse clinical data regarding these drug candidates and competitive pressures, we incurred significant costs and impairment charges but did not realize the expected benefits from these transactions. in addition, even if we achieve the long-term benefits associated with strategic transactions, our expenses and short-term costs may increase materially and adversely affect our liquidity and short-term net income (loss). future licenses or acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, the creation of contingent liabilities, impairment expenses related to goodwill, and impairment or amortization expenses related to other intangible assets, which could harm our financial condition. we face risks in connection with existing and future collaborations with respect to the development, manufacture and commercialization of our products and drug candidates. the risks that we face in connection with our current collaborations, including with parion and crispr, and any future collaborations include the following: our collaborators may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts or may have insufficient resources to effectively develop our drug candidates. the ability of some of our products and drug candidates to reach their potential could be limited if collaborators decrease or fail to increase development or commercialization efforts related to those products or drug candidates. our collaboration agreements provide our collaborators with a level of discretion in determining the amount and timing of efforts and resources that they will apply to these collaborations. any future collaboration agreements may have the effect of limiting the areas of research and development that we may pursue, either alone or in collaboration with third parties. collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, drugs that are similar to or competitive with the drugs or drug candidates that are the subject of their collaborations with us. disagreements with collaborators, including disagreements over proprietary rights, contract interpretation or the preferred course of development, might cause delays or termination of the research, development or commercialization of drug candidates, might lead to additional responsibilities for us with respect to drug candidates, or might result in litigation or arbitration. any such disagreements would divert management attention and resources and be time-consuming and expensive. collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our intellectual property or proprietary information or expose us to potential litigation. collaborators may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may expose us to litigation and potential liability. investigations and/or compliance or enforcement actions against a collaborator, which may expose us to indirect liability as a result of our partnership with such collaborator. our collaboration agreements are subject to termination under various circumstances. additionally, if a collaborator were to be involved in a business combination, it might deemphasize or terminate the development or commercialization of any drug candidate licensed to it by us. if one of our collaborators terminates its agreement with us, we may find it more difficult to attract new collaborators and our perception in the business and financial communities could be harmed. we may not be able to attract collaborators or external funding for the development and commercialization of certain of our drug candidates. as part of our ongoing strategy, we may seek additional collaborative arrangements or external funding for certain of our development programs and/or seek to expand existing collaborations to cover additional commercialization and/or development activities. we have a number of research programs and early-stage clinical development programs, some of which are being developed in collaboration with a third party. for example, in june 2014, we granted janssen pharmaceuticals, inc. an exclusive license to develop and commercialize vx-787, a drug candidate discovered by us for the treatment of influenza. at any time, we may determine that in order to continue development of a drug candidate or program 34 or successfully commercialize a drug we need to identify a collaborator or amend or expand an existing collaboration. whether we reach a definitive agreement for a collaboration will depend, among other things, upon our assessment of the collaborator's resources and expertise, the terms and conditions of the proposed collaboration and the proposed collaborator's evaluation of a number of factors. those factors may include the design or results of clinical trials, the likelihood of approval by the fda or similar regulatory authorities outside the united states, the potential market for the subject drug candidate, the costs and complexities of manufacturing and delivering such drug candidate to patients, the potential of competing products, the existence of uncertainty with respect to our ownership of the applicable intellectual property, which can exist if there is a challenge to such ownership without regard to the merits of the challenge, and industry and market conditions generally. potentially, and depending on the circumstances, we may desire that a collaborator either agree to fund portions of a drug development program led by us, or agree to provide all of the funding and directly lead the development and commercialization of a program. no assurance can be given that any efforts we make to seek additional collaborative arrangements will be successfully completed on a timely basis or at all. if we elect to fund and undertake development or commercialization activities on our own, we may need to obtain additional expertise and additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. if we are unable to enter into acceptable collaborative relationships, one or more of our development programs could be delayed or terminated and the possibility of our receiving a return on our investment in the program could be impaired. risks related to third-party manufacturing and reliance on third parties we depend on third-party manufacturers to manufacture our products and the materials we require for our clinical trials. we may not be able to maintain these relationships and could experience supply disruptions outside of our control. we rely on a worldwide network of third-party manufacturers and in rare circumstances, compounders, to manufacture some of our drugs for commercial use and our drug candidates for clinical trials. as a result of our reliance on these third-party manufacturers and suppliers, we could be subject to significant supply disruptions outside of our control. our supply chain for sourcing raw materials and manufacturing drug product ready for distribution is a multi-step international endeavor. third-party contract manufacturers, including some in china, supply us with raw materials, and convert these raw materials into drug substance and convert the drug substance into final dosage form. establishing and managing this global supply chain requires a significant financial commitment and the creation and maintenance of numerous third-party contractual relationships. although we attempt to manage the business relationships with companies in our supply chain, we do not have control over their operations. supply disruptions may result from a number of factors, including shortages in product raw materials, labor or technical difficulties, regulatory inspections or restrictions, shipping or customs delays or any other performance failure by any third-party manufacturer on which we rely. any supply disruptions could disrupt sales of our products and/or the timing of our clinical trials. we require a supply of ivacaftor and lumacaftor for commercial sale (as kalydeco and/or orkambi). we also require a supply of ivacaftor, lumacaftor, vx-661, vx-371, vx-152 and vx-440 and our other drug candidates for use in our clinical trials. we obtain ivacaftor and lumacaftor (and the combinations thereof) to meet our commercial and clinical supply needs through a third-party manufacturing network. our supply chain includes a single-source manufacturer for (i) one step in the ivacaftor manufacturing process and (ii) the manufacture of the oral granule formulation of kalydeco that is used for patients with cf two to five years of age. as a result, if these manufacturers become unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing product on our behalf and we are not able to promptly identify another manufacturer, we would experience a disruption in the commercial supply of kalydeco and/or orkambi, which would have a significant effect on patients, our business and our product revenues. similarly, a disruption in the clinical supply of drug products could delay the completion of clinical trials and affect timelines for regulatory filings. there can be no assurance that we will be able to establish and maintain secondary manufacturers for all of our ivacaftor or lumacaftor supply needs on a timely basis or at all. in the course of providing its services, a contract manufacturer may develop process technology related to the manufacture of our products or drug candidates that the manufacturer owns, either independently or jointly with us. this would increase our reliance on that manufacturer or require us to obtain a license from that manufacturer in order to have our products or drug candidates manufactured by other suppliers utilizing the same process. 35 we rely on third parties to conduct certain pre-clinical work and clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such studies and/or trials or failing to satisfy regulatory requirements. we rely on third parties such as contract research organizations to help manage certain pre-clinical work and our clinical trials and on medical institutions and clinical investigators to enroll qualified patients and conduct our clinical trials. our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities but does not relieve us of our responsibilities. for example, we remain responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the clinical trial. moreover, the fda requires us to comply with standards, commonly referred to as good laboratory practices and good clinical practices for conducting, recording and reporting the results of pre-clinical and clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. if these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be required to replace them. although we believe that there are a number of other third-party contractors we could engage to continue these activities, it may result in a delay of the affected clinical trial or drug development program. if clinical trials are not conducted in accordance with our contractual expectations or regulatory requirements, action by regulatory authorities might significantly and adversely affect the conduct or progress of these clinical trials or in specific circumstances might result in a requirement that a clinical trial be redone. accordingly, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize our drug candidates could be delayed. risks related to intellectual property if our patents do not protect our drugs, or our drugs infringe third-party patents, we could be subject to litigation and substantial liabilities. we have numerous issued patents and pending patent applications in the united states, as well as counterparts in other countries. our success will depend, in significant part, on our ability to obtain and defend u.s. and foreign patents covering our drugs, their uses and our processes, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. we cannot be certain that any patents will issue from our pending patent applications or, even if patents issue or have issued, that the issued claims will provide us with adequate protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially valuable. due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents, our ability to obtain, maintain and enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. recent patent reform legislation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents in the u.s. the leahy-smith america invents act, or the leahy-smith act, includes a number of significant changes to united states patent law. these include provisions that affect the way patent applications are prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. the united states patent office developed new regulations and procedures to govern administration of the leahy-smith act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the leahy-smith act, and in particular, the first to file provisions, only became effective in march 2013. the first to file provisions limit the rights of an inventor who is the first to invent an invention but is not the first to file an application claiming that invention. u.s. and foreign patent applications typically are maintained in confidence for a period of time after they initially are filed with the applicable patent office. consequently, we cannot be certain that we were the first to invent, or the first to file patent applications on, our products or drug candidates or their use. if a third party also has filed a u.s. patent application relating to our drugs or drug candidates, their uses, or a similar invention, we may have to participate in legal or administrative proceedings to determine priority of invention. for applications governed by the lahey-smith act, if a third-party has an earlier filed u.s. patent application relating to our drugs or drug candidates, their uses, or a similar invention, we may be unable to obtain an issued patent from our application. the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its inventorship, scope, validity or enforceability. our patents may be challenged by third parties, resulting in the patent being deemed invalid, unenforceable or narrowed in scope, or the third party may circumvent any such issued patents. also, our pending patent applications may not issue, and we may not receive any additional patents. our patents might not contain claims that are sufficiently broad to prevent others from utilizing our technologies. for instance, the issued patents relating to our drugs or drug candidates may be limited to a particular molecule or molecules and may not cover similar molecules that have similar clinical properties. consequently, our competitors may independently develop competing products that do not infringe our patents or other intellectual property. in addition, if the 36 breadth or strength of protection provided by our patents and patent applications is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to license, develop or commercialize current or future products. the laws of many foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the united states and many companies in our segment of the pharmaceutical industry have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. if we encounter such difficulties in protecting or are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, our business could be substantially harmed. because of the extensive time required for the discovery, development, testing and regulatory review of drug candidates, it is possible that, a patent may expire before a drug candidate can be commercialized, or a patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization of such drug candidate resulting in a minimal, if any, period of patent exclusivity. to the extent our drug candidates are not commercialized significantly ahead of the expiration date of any applicable patent, or to the extent we have no patent protection on such drug candidates, then, to the extent available we would rely on other forms of exclusivity, such as regulatory exclusivity provided by the fdca and its counterpart agencies in various jurisdictions, and/or orphan drug exclusivity. uncertainty over intellectual property in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry has been the source of litigation and other disputes, which is inherently costly and unpredictable. there is considerable uncertainty within our industry about the validity, scope and enforceability of many issued patents in the united states and elsewhere in the world, and, to date, the law and practice remains in substantial flux both in the agencies that grant patents and in the courts. we cannot currently determine the ultimate scope and validity of patents which may be granted to third parties in the future or which patents might be asserted as being infringed by the manufacture, use and sale of our products. there has been, and we expect that there may continue to be, significant litigation in the industry regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. litigation, arbitrations, administrative proceedings and other legal actions with private parties and governmental authorities concerning patents and other intellectual property rights may be protracted, expensive and distracting to management. competitors may sue us as a way of delaying the introduction of our drugs or to remove our drugs from the market. any litigation, including litigation related to abbreviated new drug applications, or anda, interference proceedings to determine priority of inventions, derivations proceedings, inter partes review, oppositions to patents in foreign countries, litigation against our collaborators or similar actions, may be costly and time consuming and could harm our business. we expect that litigation may be necessary in some instances to determine the validity and scope of certain of our proprietary rights. litigation may be necessary in other instances to determine the validity, scope or non-infringement of certain patent rights claimed by third parties to be pertinent to the manufacture, use or sale of our products. ultimately, the outcome of such litigation could adversely affect the validity and scope of our patent or other proprietary rights, hinder our ability to manufacture and market our products, or result in the assessment of significant monetary damages against us that may exceed amounts, if any, accrued in our financial statements. to the extent that valid present or future third-party patents or other intellectual property rights cover our drugs, drug candidates or technologies, we or our strategic collaborators may seek licenses or other agreements from the holders of such rights in order to avoid or settle legal claims. such licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, which may hinder our ability to, or prevent us from being able to, manufacture and market our drugs. payments under any licenses that we are able to obtain would reduce our profits derived from the covered products. we may be subject to claims by third parties asserting that our employees or we have misappropriated their intellectual property, or claiming ownership of what we regard as our own intellectual property. many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. although we try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of any such employee's former employer. litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. in addition, while it is our policy to require our employees and contractors who may be involved in the development of intellectual property to execute agreements assigning such intellectual property to us, we may be unsuccessful in executing such an agreement with each party who in fact develops intellectual property that we regard as our own. our and their 37 assignment agreements may not be self-executing or may be breached, and we may be forced to bring claims against third parties, or defend claims they may bring against us, to determine the ownership of what we regard as our intellectual property. if we fail in prosecuting or defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. even if we are successful in prosecuting or defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. risks related to our operations if we fail to manage our operations effectively, our business may suffer. we have expanded and are continuing to expand our global operations and capabilities, which has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational, research and development and financial infrastructure. to effectively manage our business, we need to: implement and clearly communicate our corporate-wide strategies; enhance our operational and financial infrastructure, including our controls over records and information; enhance our operational, financial and management processes, including our cross-functional decision-making processes and our budget prioritization systems; train and manage our global employee base; transition from a u.s.-centric company into an organization capable of developing and commercializing multiple drug candidates in international markets; and enhance our compliance and legal resources. risks associated with operating in foreign countries could materially adversely affect our business. we have expanded our international operations over the past several years in order to market kalydeco and orkambi and expand our research and development capabilities. in 2015, a substantial portion of our revenues and expenses were associated with our foreign operations and we expect that portion to increase over time. new laws and industry codes in the european union and elsewhere have expanded transparency requirements regarding payments and transfers of value as well as patient-level clinical trial data. new laws in the european union also have expanded protections related to personal data and provided for increased sanctions for violations. collectively, our expansion and these new requirements are adding to our compliance costs and expose us to potential sanctions for failing to meet the enhanced safeguards and reporting demands in these jurisdictions. in addition, a significant portion of our commercial supply chain, including sourcing of raw materials and manufacturing, is located in china and the european union. consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to risks related to operating in foreign countries. risks associated with conducting operations in foreign countries include: differing regulatory requirements for drug approvals and regulation of approved drugs in foreign countries; collectibility of accounts receivable; unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements; economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; differing levels of enforcement and/or recognition of contractual and intellectual property rights; complying with local laws and regulations, which are interpreted and enforced differently across jurisdictions and which can change significantly over time; foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes; 38 foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in reduced revenues or increased operating expenses, and other obligations incident to doing business or operating in another country; workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the united states; import and export licensing requirements, tariffs, and other trade and travel restrictions; production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism. our revenues are subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations due to the global nature of our operations. although we have foreign currency forward contracts to hedge forecasted product revenues denominated in foreign currencies, our efforts to reduce currency exchange losses may not be successful. as a result, currency fluctuations among our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar, and the currencies in which we do business will affect our operating results, often in unpredictable ways. in addition, our international operations are subject to regulation under u.s. law. for example, the foreign corrupt practices act prohibits u.s. companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad. in many countries, the health care professionals we regularly interact with may meet the definition of a foreign government official for purposes of the foreign corrupt practices act. we also are subject to import/export control laws. failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including the possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls, seizures, withdrawal of an approved product from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions, the prosecution of executives overseeing our international operations and corresponding bad publicity and negative perception of our company in foreign countries. our business has a substantial risk of product liability claims. if we do not obtain appropriate levels of insurance, product liability claims could adversely affect our business. our business exposes us to significant potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, clinical testing, manufacturing and sales and marketing of drugs and drug candidates. we have product liability insurance and clinical trial insurance in amounts that we believe are adequate to cover this risk. however, our insurance may not provide adequate coverage against all potential liabilities. if a claim is brought against us, we might be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as pay uncovered damage awards resulting from a claim brought successfully against us and these damages could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. furthermore, whether or not we are ultimately successful in defending any such claims, we might be required to direct significant financial and managerial resources to such defense and adverse publicity is likely to result. a breakdown or breach of our information technology systems could subject us to liability or interrupt the operation of our business. we maintain and rely extensively on information technology systems and network infrastructures for the effective operation of our business. in the course of our business, we collect, store and transmit confidential information (including personal information and intellectual property), and it is critical that we do so in a secure manner to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information. the size and complexity of our information technology and information security systems makes such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches. a disruption, infiltration or failure of our information technology systems or any of our data centers as a result of software or hardware malfunctions, computer viruses, cyber attacks, employee theft or misuse, power disruptions, natural disasters, floods or accidents could cause breaches of data security and loss of critical data, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business and subject us to both private and governmental causes of action. while we have implemented security measures in an attempt to minimize these risks to our data and information technology systems and have adopted a business continuity plan to deal with a disruption to our information technology systems, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business. 39 if we fail to attract and retain skilled employees, our business could be materially harmed. because our drug discovery and development activities are highly technical in nature, we require the services of highly qualified and trained scientists who have the skills necessary to conduct these activities. in addition, we need to attract and retain employees with experience in marketing and commercialization of medicines. we face intense competition for our personnel from our competitors and other companies throughout our industry. we also experience competition for the hiring of scientific and clinical personnel from universities and research institutions. moreover, the growth of local biotechnology companies and the expansion of major pharmaceutical companies into the boston area have increased competition for the available pool of skilled employees, especially in technical fields, and the high cost of living in massachusetts makes it difficult to attract employees from other parts of the country to massachusetts. our ability to commercialize our products, and achieve our research and development objectives, depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands. if we are unable to hire and retain qualified personnel, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. the loss of the services of key employees or the failure to effectively integrate key employees could negatively affect our business. our future success will depend in large part on our ability to retain the services of our key scientific and management personnel and to integrate new scientific and management personnel into our business. a loss of key personnel or a failure to properly integrate new personnel could be disruptive. we have entered into employment agreements with some executives and provide compensation-related benefits to all of our key employees that vest over time and therefore induce them to remain with us. however, the employment agreements can be terminated by the executive on relatively short notice. the value to employees of stock-related benefits that vest over time such as options, restricted stock and restricted stock units is significantly affected by movements in our stock price, and may at any point in time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. a failure to retain, as well as hire, train and effectively integrate into our organization a sufficient number of qualified scientists, professionals, sales personnel and senior management would negatively affect our business. if we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected. our research and development efforts involve the regulated use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various controlled and radioactive compounds. although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by state, federal and foreign regulations, the risk of loss of, or accidental contamination or injury from, these materials cannot be eliminated. if an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. we also are subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. although we maintain workers' compensation insurance to cover us for costs we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. we maintain insurance to cover pollution conditions or other extraordinary or unanticipated events relating to our use and disposal of hazardous materials that we believe is appropriate based on the small amount of hazardous materials we generate. additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. we may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations. if our facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, our operations would be seriously harmed. most of our operations, including our research and development activities, are conducted in a limited number of facilities. if any of our major facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, due to a fire, earthquake or similar event, our operations could be seriously harmed. for example, our corporate headquarters, as well as additional leased space that we use for certain logistical and laboratory operations and manufacturing, are located in a flood zone along the massachusetts coast. we have adopted a business continuity plan to address most events of a crisis nature. however, if we are unable to fully implement our disaster recovery plans, we may experience delays in recovery of data and/or an inability to perform vital corporate functions, which could result in a significant disruption in our research, development, manufacturing and/or commercial activities, the loss or critical data and/or large expenses to repair or replace the facility, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. 40 risks related to holding our common stock our stock price may fluctuate. market prices for securities of companies such as ours are highly volatile. from january 1, 2015 to december 31, 2015, our common stock traded between $97.45 and $143.45 per share. the market for our stock, like that of other companies in the biotechnology industry, has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. the future market price of our securities could be significantly and adversely affected by factors such as: the information contained in our quarterly earnings releases, including our net product revenues and operating expenses for completed periods and guidance regarding future periods; announcements of fda actions with respect to our drugs or our competitors' drugs, or regulatory filings for our drug candidates or those of our competitors, or announcements of interim or final results of clinical trials or nonclinical studies relating to our drugs, drug candidates or those of our competitors; prescription data and other information disclosed by third parties regarding our business or products; technological innovations or the introduction of new drugs by our competitors; government regulatory action; public concern as to the safety of drugs developed by us or our competitors; developments in patent or other intellectual property rights or announcements relating to these matters; developments in domestic and international governmental policy or regulation, for example, relating to intellectual property rights; developments relating specifically to other companies and market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks or stocks in general; business development, capital structuring or financing activities; and general worldwide or national economic, political and capital market conditions. our indebtedness could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, and the terms of our credit agreement impose restrictions on our business, reducing our operational flexibility and creating default risks. in july 2014, we entered into a credit agreement that provides for a $300.0 million senior secured term loan. we are required to repay principal on the loan beginning in the fourth quarter of 2016 with us repaying $75.0 million on each of october 1, 2016, january 1, 2017, april 1, 2017 and july 9, 2017. our indebtedness could have important consequences to our business, including increasing our vulnerability to general adverse financial, business, economic and industry conditions, as well as other factors that are beyond our control. in october 2016, we will be required to begin repayment of the principal amount of our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of future cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development efforts and other general corporate purposes. the credit agreement requires that we maintain, on a quarterly basis, a minimum level of kalydeco net revenues. further, the credit agreement includes negative covenants, subject to exceptions, restricting or limiting our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, grant liens, engage in certain investment, acquisition and disposition transactions, pay dividends, repurchase capital stock and enter into transactions with affiliates. as a result, we may be restricted from engaging in business activities that may otherwise improve our business. failure to comply with the covenants could result in an event of default that could trigger acceleration of our indebtedness, which would require us to repay all amounts owing under the credit agreement and/or our capital leases and could have a material adverse effect on our business. additionally, our obligations under the credit agreement are unconditionally guaranteed by certain of our domestic subsidiaries. all obligations under the credit agreement, and the guarantees of those obligations, are secured, subject to 41 certain exceptions, by substantially all of our assets and the assets of all guarantors, including the pledge of all or a portion of the equity interests of certain of our subsidiaries. if we fail to satisfy our obligations under the credit agreement or are unable to obtain sufficient funds to make payments, the lenders could foreclose on our pledged collateral. our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuation. our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past, and we expect that they will continue to do so in the future. our future revenues will be dependent on the level of net product revenues from sales of orkambi, which is reliant on the number of patients for whom treatment with orkambi is initiated, the proportion of initiated patients who remain on treatment, patient compliance with the recommended treatment regimen and the level of rebates, chargebacks, discounts and other adjustments to our orkambi gross product revenues. additional factors that have caused quarterly fluctuations in recent years include variable amounts of revenues, impairment charges, charges for excess and obsolete inventories, changes in the fair value of derivative instruments and the consolidation or deconsolidation of variable interest entities. we cannot accurately predict our future net product revenues from orkambi and our total net product revenues could vary on a quarterly basis. our total net product revenues may be affected by, among other factors, the timing of orders from our significant customers. our revenues also are subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations due to the global nature of our operations. although we have foreign currency forward contracts to hedge forecasted product revenues denominated in foreign currencies, our efforts to reduce currency exchange losses may not be successful. as a result, currency fluctuations among our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar, and the currencies in which we do business may affect our operating results, often in unpredictable ways. our quarterly results also could be materially affected by significant charges, which may or may not be similar to charges we have experienced in the past. most of our operating expenses relate to our research and development activities, do not vary directly with the amount of revenues and are difficult to adjust in the short term. as a result, if revenues in a particular quarter are below expectations, we are unlikely to reduce operating expenses proportionately for that quarter. these examples are only illustrative and other risks, including those discussed in these risk factors, could also cause fluctuations in our reported financial results. our operating results during any one period do not necessarily suggest the results of future periods. we expect that results from our clinical development activities and the clinical development activities of our competitors will continue to be released periodically, and may result in significant volatility in the price of our common stock. any new information regarding our products and drug candidates or competitive products or potentially competitive drug candidates can substantially affect investors' perceptions regarding our future prospects. we, our collaborators and our competitors periodically provide updates regarding drug development programs, typically through press releases, conference calls and presentations at medical conferences. these periodic updates often include interim or final results from clinical trials conducted by us or our competitors and/or information about our or our competitors' expectations regarding regulatory filings and submissions as well as future clinical development of our products or drug candidates, competitive products or potentially competitive drug candidates. the timing of the release of information by us regarding our drug development programs is often beyond our control and is influenced by the timing of receipt of data from our clinical trials and by the general preference among pharmaceutical companies to disclose clinical data during medical conferences. in addition, the information disclosed about our clinical trials, or our competitors' clinical trials, may be based on interim rather than final data that may involve interpretation difficulties and may in any event not accurately predict final results. we could be negatively affected by securities class action complaints. on may 28, 2014, a purported shareholder class action local no. 8 ibew retirement plan &amp; trust v. vertex pharmaceuticals incorporated, et al. was filed in the united states district court for the district of massachusetts, naming us and certain of our current and former officers and directors as defendants. the lawsuit alleged that we made material misrepresentations and/or omissions of material fact in our disclosures during the period from may 7, 2012 through may 29, 2012, all in violation of section 10(b) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, and rule 10b-5 promulgated thereunder. the purported class consists of all persons (excluding defendants) who purchased our common stock between may 7, 2012 and may 29, 2012. the plaintiffs seek unspecified monetary damages, costs and attorneys' fees as well as disgorgement of the proceeds from certain individual defendants' sales of our stock. on october 8, 2014, the court approved local no. 8 ibew retirement fund as lead plaintiff, and scott and scott llp as lead counsel for the plaintiff and the putative class. we filed a motion to dismiss the complaint on december 8, 2014 and the plaintiffs filed their opposition to our motion to dismiss on january 22, 2015. on february 23, 2015, we filed a reply to the plaintiffs' opposition to our motion to dismiss. the court heard oral argument on our motion to dismiss on march 6, 2015 and took the motion under advisement. on september 30, 2015, the court granted our motion to dismiss. on october 15, 2015, the plaintiff filed a notice of appeal. 42 we believe that this action is without merit and intend to vigorously defend the litigation. this action will take time and money to defend and may distract us from more productive activities. no assurance can be provided that we will be successful in defending this claim or that insurance proceeds will be sufficient to cover any liability under such claims. we could be negatively affected by government investigations. in the third quarter of 2015, we received a subpoena from the united states department of justice related to our marketed medicines. this subpoena requests documents relating primarily to our good laboratory practices in a bioanalytical laboratory. we are in the process of responding to the subpoena and intend to continue to cooperate. if we are unable to resolve this matter in a satisfactory manner, our business could be adversely affected. changes in tax laws, regulations and treaties could affect our future taxable income. a change in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation, of any country in which we operate could materially affect us if we generate taxable income in a future period. we continue to assess the impact of various tax reform proposals and modifications to existing tax treaties in all jurisdictions where we have operations to determine the potential effect on our business and any assumptions we have made about our future taxable income. we cannot predict whether any specific proposals will be enacted, the terms of any such proposals or what effect, if any, such proposals would have on our business if they were to be enacted. we may need to raise additional capital that may not be available. we have a history of operating losses and may in the future need to raise additional capital. we have borrowed $300.0 million under a credit agreement that we entered into in the third quarter of 2014. in recent periods, we also have received significant proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our employee benefit plans, but the amount and timing of future proceeds from employee benefits plans is uncertain. any potential public offering, private placement or debt financing may or may not be similar to the transactions that we entered into in the past. any debt financing may be on terms that, among other things, include conversion features that could result in dilution to our then-existing security holders and restrict our ability to pay interest and dividends although we do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. additionally, our pledge of our assets as collateral to secure our obligations under our credit agreement may limit our ability to obtain additional debt financing. any equity financings would result in dilution to our then-existing security holders. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be required to curtail significantly or discontinue one or more of our research, drug discovery or development programs, including clinical trials, incur significant cash exit costs, or attempt to obtain funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, drugs or drug candidates. based on many factors, including general economic conditions, additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. issuances of additional shares of our common stock could cause the price of our common stock to decline. as of december 31, 2015 , we had 246.3 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. as of december 31, 2015 , we also had outstanding options to purchase 11.1 million shares of common stock with a weighted-average exercise price of $75.99 per share. outstanding vested options are likely to be exercised if the market price of our common stock exceeds the applicable exercise price, and, in the future, we expect to issue additional options, restricted stock and restricted stock units to directors and employees. in addition, we may issue additional common stock or restricted securities in the future as part of financing activities or business development activities and any such issuances may have a dilutive effect on our then-existing shareholders. sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market, or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. the issuance of restricted common stock or common stock upon exercise of any outstanding options would be dilutive, and may cause the market price for a share of our common stock to decline. we have adopted anti-takeover provisions and are subject to massachusetts corporate laws that may frustrate any attempt to remove or replace our current management or effectuate a business combination involving vertex. our corporate charter and by-law provisions and massachusetts state laws may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change of control of vertex that might be beneficial to us or our security holders. our charter provides for staggered terms for the members of the board of directors. our by-laws grant the directors a right to adjourn annual meetings of shareholders, and certain provisions of our by-laws may be amended only with an 80% shareholder vote. we may issue shares of any class or series of preferred stock in the future without shareholder approval and upon such terms 43 as our board of directors may determine. the rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any class or series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. massachusetts state law prohibits us from engaging in specified business combinations, unless the combination is approved or consummated in a prescribed manner, and prohibits voting by any shareholder who acquires 20% or more of our voting stock without shareholder approval. as a result, shareholders or other parties may find it more difficult to remove or replace our current management. additionally, one of our collaboration agreements includes a change in control provision that could reduce the potential acquisition price an acquirer is willing to pay or discourage a takeover attempt that may otherwise be viewed as beneficial to shareholders. special note regarding forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k and, in particular, the description of our business set forth in item 1, the risk factors set forth in this item 1a and our management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations set forth in item 7 contain or incorporate a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding: our expectations regarding the amount of, timing of and trends with respect to our revenues, costs and expenses and other gains and losses, including those related to net product revenues from kalydeco and orkambi; our expectations regarding clinical trials, development timelines and regulatory authority filings and submissions for ivacaftor, lumacaftor, vx-661, vx-371 (formerly p-1037), vx-152, vx-440, vx-970, vx-803, vx-984, vx-150, vx-241 and vx-210, as well as the snda for kalydeco for patients with cf two years of age and older who have one of 23 residual function mutations; future interactions with the fda regarding our snda for kalydeco for patients with cf two years of age and older who have one of 23 residual function mutations that the fda determined it could not approve in its present form; our expectations regarding planned clinical trials for next-generation correctors based upon pre-clinical data; our ability to successfully market kalydeco and orkambi or any of our other drug candidates for which we obtain regulatory approval; our expectations regarding the timing and structure of clinical trials of our drugs and drug candidates, including ivacaftor, lumacaftor, vx-661, vx-371 (formerly p-1037), vx-152, vx-440, vx-970, vx-803, vx-984, vx-150, vx-241 and vx-210, and the expected timing of our receipt of data from our ongoing and planned clinical trials; the data that will be generated by ongoing and planned clinical trials and the ability to use that data to advance compounds, continue development or support regulatory filings; our beliefs regarding the support provided by clinical trials and preclinical and nonclinical studies of our drug candidates for further investigation, clinical trials or potential use as a treatment; our plan to continue investing in our research and development programs and our strategy to develop our drug candidates, alone or with third party-collaborators; the establishment, development and maintenance of collaborative relationships; potential business development activities; potential fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; our ability to use our research programs to identify and develop new drug candidates to address serious diseases and significant unmet medical needs; and our liquidity and our expectations regarding the possibility of raising additional capital. any or all of our forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k may turn out to be wrong. they can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. many factors mentioned in this 44 annual report on form 10-k will be important in determining future results. consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. actual future results may vary materially from expected results. we also provide a cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties under risk factors above in this item 1a. these are factors and uncertainties that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results. other factors and uncertainties besides those listed there could also adversely affect us. without limiting the foregoing, the words believes, anticipates, plans, intends, expects and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. there are a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control, including the factors and uncertainties set forth under risk factors above in this item 1a. in addition, the forward-looking statements contained herein represent our estimate only as of the date of this filing and should not be relied upon as representing our estimate as of any subsequent date. while we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 66 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk as part of our investment portfolio, we own financial instruments that are sensitive to market risks. the investment portfolio is used to preserve our capital until it is required to fund operations, including our research and development activities. none of these market risk-sensitive instruments are held for trading purposes. we do not have derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. 66 interest rate risk we invest our cash in a variety of financial instruments, principally securities issued by the u.s. government and its agencies, investment-grade corporate bonds and commercial paper, and money market funds. these investments are denominated in u.s. dollars. all of our interest-bearing securities are subject to interest rate risk and could decline in value if interest rates fluctuate. substantially all of our investment portfolio consists of marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to help ensure portfolio liquidity, and we have implemented guidelines limiting the term-to-maturity of our investment instruments. due to the conservative nature of these instruments, we do not believe that we have a material exposure to interest rate risk. foreign exchange market risk as a result of our foreign operations, we face exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the euro, swiss franc, british pound, australian dollar and canadian dollar against the u.s. dollar. the current exposures arise primarily from cash, accounts receivable, intercompany receivables, payables and inventories. both positive and negative affects to our net revenues from international product sales from movements in foreign currency exchange rates are partially mitigated by the natural, opposite affect that foreign currency exchange rates have on our international operating costs and expenses. we have a foreign currency management program with the objective of reducing the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results and forecasted revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies. the change in fair value of these foreign currency forward contracts included in accumulated other comprehensive loss and the gross fair value of foreign currency forward assets and liabilities included on the consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2015 were not material.risk factors 25 risk factors risk factors investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk, and you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k. if any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer, possibly materially. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. risks related to our business our business and future revenues depend heavily on orkambi net product revenues. if we are unable to increase our orkambi net product revenues or if we do not meet the expectations of investors or public equity market analysts, our business will be materially harmed and the market price of our common stock would likely decline. orkambi was approved by the fda in july 2015 and by the european commission in november 2015, for the treatment of patients with cf twelve years of age and older who are homozygous for the f508del mutation in their cftr gene. in september 2016, the fda approved orkambi for the treatment of patients with cf six to eleven years of age who are homozygous for the f508del mutation in their cftr gene. most of our orkambi net product revenues have come from the united states and, except with respect to germany, we have not recognized significant ex-u.s. net product revenues due to the time it takes to complete reimbursement discussions in many ex-u.s. countries. we have experienced challenges in the commercialization of orkambi, including discontinuations by patients who had previously initiated treatment with orkambi and a slower than anticipated launch in germany. our ability to increase orkambi net product revenues will be dependent on: our ability to obtain, and the timing and terms of obtaining, reimbursement for orkambi in ex-u.s. markets; the number of additional patients who begin treatment with orkambi, including patients six to eleven years of age in the united states; the rate at which additional patients initiate treatment; the proportion of initiated patients who remain on treatment; and the compliance rate for patients who remain on treatment. if we continue to experience challenges with the commercialization of orkambi or if orkambi were to become subject to problems such as safety or efficacy issues, the introduction or greater acceptance of competing products, changes in reimbursement policies of payors and other third parties, or adverse legal, administrative, regulatory or legislative developments, our ability to commercialize orkambi would be impaired and our stock price would likely decline. since the regulations that govern pricing, coverage and reimbursement for drugs vary widely from country to country, there is no assurance that coverage and reimbursement will be available outside of the united states and, even if it is available, the timing or the level of reimbursement may not be satisfactory. adverse pricing limitations or a delay in obtaining coverage and reimbursement would decrease our future net product revenues and harm our business. our business is dependent on kalydeco net product revenues and if we are unable to sustain our kalydeco net product revenues, our business will be materially harmed and the market price of our common stock would decline . kalydeco net product revenues represented approximately 41% and 61% of our total revenues in 2016 and 2015, respectively, and we expect kalydeco net product revenues to continue to represent a substantial portion of our total revenues in future periods. we are seeking to expand the label for kalydeco and to increase the number of patients eligible and reimbursed for treatment with kalydeco in the united states and ex-u.s. markets. we have initiated a clinical trial for ivacaftor in patients with cf less than two years of age to evaluate the effect of ivacaftor on markers of cf disease in young children. there can be no assurance that the data from this clinical trial will be sufficient to obtain approval for ivacaftor in this patient population. additionally, in february 2016, we received a complete response letter from the fda regarding our snda for ivacaftor for patients with cf two years of age and older who have one of 23 residual function mutations. the fda determined that it cannot approve the snda in its present form. while we have had discussions with 25 the fda regarding the snda to determine an appropriate path forward, there can be no assurance that the outcome from these discussions will be sufficient to obtain approval for ivacaftor in this patient population. if we are unable to sustain kalydeco net products revenues for any reason, such as safety or efficacy issues, the introduction or greater acceptance of competing products, changes in reimbursement policies of payors and other third parties, or adverse legal, administrative, regulatory or legislative developments, our ability to commercialize kalydeco would be impaired and our product revenues would decrease and our financial position and stock price would be materially harmed. if we are unable to successfully develop additional drug candidates, and in particular tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor and triple combination regimens including next-generation cftr corrector compounds, our business will be materially harmed. our long-term success and revenue growth will depend upon our ability to successfully develop new products. we believe that a significant portion of the value attributed to our company by investors is based on the potential of the combination regimens that we are developing for the treatment of cf, including tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor, which is phase 3 development, and triple combination regimens that include our next-generation cftr corrector compounds, including vx-152 and vx-440, each of which are in phase 2 development, vx-659, which is in phase 1 development, and vx-445, which we expect will enter phase 1 development in the first quarter of 2017. furthermore, our success will be dependent on our ability to successfully develop and ultimately commercialize drug candidates in therapeutic areas outside of cf, including drug candidates resulting from our internal research programs and drug candidates that have been or may in the future be licensed or acquired from third parties. drug development is inherently risky and we will be required to undertake additional clinical trials before such candidates become eligible for marketing approval. the results of clinical trials and findings from our nonclinical studies for these drug candidates, including toxicology findings in nonclinical studies conducted concurrently with clinical trials, could lead to abrupt changes in our development activities, including the possible cessation of development activities associated with a particular drug candidate or program. many companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including our company, have suffered significant setbacks in later-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in earlier-stage clinical trials. accordingly, the results from completed preclinical studies and clinical trials may not be replicated in later clinical trials, and ongoing clinical trials for our drug candidates may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later-stage clinical trials or of the likelihood of approval of a drug candidate for commercial sale. we expect data from our phase 3 development program evaluating tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor in the first half of 2017. if supported by data from the phase 3 development program, we plan to submit an nda to the fda for tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor in the second half of 2017. we expect to begin receiving data from clinical trials evaluating triple combination treatment regimens in the second half of 2017. if our ongoing or planned clinical trials for our drug candidates, are not successful, or if we fail to expand our pipeline outside of cf, our business will be materially harmed. we have a history of incurring losses, and we cannot predict the extent of our future profitability. we have incurred operating losses in each of the last three years. while our revenues have increased and our operating losses have decreased in each of the last three years, we have not achieved annual profitability on a gaap basis. our ability to achieve and sustain profitability depends on the extent to which we can continue to increase our revenue and control our costs in order to, among other things, counter any unforeseen difficulties, complications or other unknown factors that may impair future revenue or require additional expenditures. our ability to increase our revenues is dependent on our ability to increase our sales of orkambi, to maintain sales of kalydeco and to develop and commercialize additional products. our operating expenses may increase due to, among other factors, additional investments to support or accelerate our research and development activities, the expansion of our organization, and/or costs associated with business development activities, including costs to acquire assets or programs, integration costs and the costs to develop drug candidates that are acquired. because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with pharmaceutical product development, we are unable to predict the extent of our future profitability or losses. if we are unable to increase sales of orkambi, sustain sales of kalydeco and develop additional products, we may not achieve and/or sustain profitability. 26 if our competitors bring drugs with superior product profiles to market, our drugs may not be competitive and our revenues could decline. orkambi, kalydeco and any drugs that we develop in the future may not be able to compete effectively with marketed drugs or new drugs that may be developed by competitors. the risk of competition is specifically important to our company because substantially all of our revenues as well as our most advanced drug candidates are related to the treatment of patients with cf. there are many other companies developing drugs for the same indications that we are pursuing. in order to compete successfully in these areas, we must demonstrate improved safety, efficacy and/or tolerability, and ease of manufacturing, and gain and maintain market acceptance over competing drugs. many of our competitors, including major pharmaceutical companies such as abbvie, bristol-myers squibb, gilead, johnson &amp; johnson, merck, merck kgaa, novartis, pfizer, sanofi and roche, possess substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we possess. potential competitors also include other public and private companies, academic institutions, government agencies, other public and private research organizations and charitable venture philanthropy organizations that conduct research, seek patent protection and/or establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and commercialization. as an example, in 2013 and 2014 we experienced a rapid decline in the number of patients being treated with incivek, a product we previously marketed for the treatment of hepatitis c virus infection. mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may result in even more resources being concentrated among a smaller number of our competitors. smaller and other early-stage companies also may prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. these third parties compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to, or necessary for, our programs. a number of companies are seeking to identify and develop drug candidates for the treatment of cf, including galapagos nv in collaboration with abbvie, concert pharmaceuticals, genzyme, which is a division of sanofi, novartis, pfizer, proqr therapeutics, proteostasis therapeutics, ptc therapeutics and several private companies. our competitors have research and development programs directed at identifying cftr potentiators, cftr correctors, enac inhibitors and drug candidates with other mechanisms of action or that utilize new therapeutic approaches that seek to address the underlying cause of cf. our success in rapidly developing and commercializing orkambi and kalydeco may increase the resources that our competitors allocate to the development of these potential treatments for cf. our competitors are exploring the development of drug candidates both as monotherapies and as part of combination regimens. if one or more competing therapies are successfully developed as a treatment for patients with cf, our revenues from orkambi, kalydeco and/or other compounds, if then approved, could face competitive pressures. if one or more competing therapies prove to be superior to our existing products and/or drug candidates for the treatment of cf, our business would be materially adversely affected. if we discover safety issues with any of our products or if we fail to comply with continuing u.s. and applicable foreign regulations, commercialization efforts for the product could be negatively affected, the approved product could lose its approval or sales could be suspended, and our business could be materially harmed. our products are subject to continuing regulatory oversight, including the review of additional safety information. drugs are more widely used by patients once approval has been obtained and therefore side-effects and other problems may be observed after approval that were not seen or anticipated, or were not as prevalent or severe, during pre-approval clinical trials or nonclinical studies. the subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a product could negatively affect commercial sales of the product, result in restrictions on the product or lead to the withdrawal of the product from the market. each of our two commercial products and our most advanced drug candidates, contain ivacaftor, either alone or in combination with one or more other compounds. as a result, if either of our products were to experience safety issues, both orkambi and kalydeco, as well as one or more of our drug candidates, may be adversely affected. the reporting of adverse safety events involving our products or public speculation about such events could cause our stock price to decline or experience periods of volatility. if we or our collaborators fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we or our collaborators may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals for specific products, product recalls and seizures, operating restrictions and/or criminal prosecutions. in addition, the manufacturers we engage to make our products and the manufacturing facilities in which our products are made are subject to periodic review and inspection by the fda and foreign regulatory authorities. if problems are identified during the review or inspection of these manufacturers or manufacturing 27 facilities, it could result in our inability to use the facility to make our product or a determination that inventories are not safe for commercial sale. if physicians and patients do not accept our drugs, or if patients do not remain on treatment or comply with the prescribed dosing regimen, our product revenues would be materially harmed in future periods. our drugs may not gain or maintain market acceptance among physicians and patients. effectively marketing our drugs and any of our drug candidates, if approved, requires substantial efforts, both prior to launch and after approval. physicians may elect not to prescribe our drugs, and patients may elect not to take them or may discontinue use of our drugs after initiation of treatment, for a variety of reasons including: prevalence and severity of adverse side-effects; lack of reimbursement availability from third-party payors; lower demonstrated efficacy, safety and/or tolerability compared to alternative treatment methods; lack of cost-effectiveness; a decision to wait for the approval of other therapies in development that have significant perceived advantages over our drug; convenience and ease of administration; other potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; and ineffective sales, marketing and/or distribution support. for example, our net product revenues from orkambi during 2016 were affected by discontinuations by patients who had previously initiated treatment with orkambi. if the discontinuation rate for orkambi or any of our other drug products increases, or if our drugs otherwise fail to achieve or maintain market acceptance, we may not be able to generate significant revenues in future periods. government and other third-party payors seek to contain costs of health care through legislative and other means. if they fail to provide coverage and adequate reimbursement rates for our products, our revenues will be harmed. in both domestic and foreign markets, our sales of products depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. third-party payors include government health programs such as medicare and medicaid in the united states and the national health care systems in many international markets, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. the trend in the health care industry is cost containment and efforts of third-party payors to contain or reduce health care costs that may adversely affect our ability to establish or maintain appropriate prices for our products or any drugs that we may develop and commercialize. in most ex-u.s. markets, pricing or profitability of therapeutic and other pharmaceutical products is subject to governmental control and such government authorities are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of drug products, particularly under recent global economic pressures and geopolitical uncertainty particularly in europe. reimbursement agencies in europe are often more conservative than those in the united states and the reimbursement process is often slower since reimbursement decisions are made on a country-by-country basis. in the united states, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental control as currently exists in europe. the aca requires discounts under the medicare drug benefit program and increased the rebates paid by pharmaceutical companies on drugs covered by medicaid. the aca also imposes an annual fee, which increases annually, on sales by branded pharmaceutical manufacturers. in addition, third-party payors attempt to contain health care costs by demanding price discounts or rebates and limiting both the types and variety of drugs that they will cover and the amounts that they will pay for drugs. as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our products. we might need to conduct post-marketing studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of our products or any other future products to such payors' satisfaction. such studies might require us to commit a significant amount of management's time and our financial and other resources. our products might not ultimately be considered cost-effective. adequate third-party reimbursement might not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. 28 reimbursement rates vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost products that already are reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other products or services and may reflect budgetary constraints and/or imperfections in the data used to calculate these rates. net prices for products are reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs and privately-negotiated discounts. while we have implemented policies in an effort to comply with mandated reimbursement rates, the u.s. federal government, state governments and private payors frequently pursue actions against pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies alleging that the companies have overstated prices in order to inflate reimbursement rates. any such action could adversely affect the pricing of and revenues from our products. in the united states and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals and initiatives to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell products. for example the aca was enacted under the prior u.s. administration, and there is significant uncertainty regarding changes in the laws and regulations applicable to the health care system that may be made under the new administration, and, in particular, the effect any such changes may have on our business. some of these proposed and implemented reforms have resulted, or could result, in reduced reimbursement rates and/or more limited access for our current or future products, which would adversely affect our business, operations and financial results. specialty pharmaceuticals are drugs that are prescribed by specialist physicians to treat rare or life-threatening conditions and typically address smaller patient populations. each of orkambi and kalydeco is a specialty pharmaceutical product and our research and development programs are primarily focused on developing additional specialty pharmaceutical products. the increasing availability and use of innovative specialty pharmaceuticals, combined with their relative higher cost as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products, is beginning to generate significant third-party payor interest in developing cost-containment strategies targeted to this sector. government regulations in both non-u.s. and u.s. markets could limit the prices that can be charged for our products and may limit our commercial opportunity. the increasing use of health technology assessments in markets around the world and the financial challenges faced by many governments may lead to significant adverse effects on our business. any legislation or regulatory changes or relaxation of laws that restrict imports of drugs from other countries also could reduce the net price we receive for our products. if regulatory authorities interpret any of our conduct, including our marketing practices, as being in violation of applicable health care laws, including fraud and abuse laws, laws prohibiting off-label promotion, disclosure laws or other similar laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. we are subject to health care fraud and abuse laws, such as the federal false claims act and the anti-kickback provisions of the federal social security act, laws prohibiting off-label product promotion and other similar laws and regulations both in united states and in non-u.s. markets. while we have a corporate compliance program designed to actively identify, prevent and mitigate risk through the implementation of compliance policies and systems and the promotion of a culture of compliance, if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws our business could be materially harmed. the federal anti-kickback law prohibits knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the ordering, furnishing, arranging for or recommending of an item or service that is reimbursable, in whole or in part, by a federal health care program, such as medicare or medicaid. the federal statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, patients, purchasers and formulary managers on the other hand, and therefore constrains our marketing practices and our various service arrangements with physicians, including physicians who make clinical decisions to use our products. although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly and have been interpreted by courts as such. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in promotion for uses that the fda has not approved, known as off-label uses, that caused claims to be submitted to medicaid for non-covered off-label uses; submitting inflated best price information to the 29 medicaid rebate program; and certain manufacturing-related violations. the scope of this and other laws may expand in ways that make compliance more difficult and expensive. although physicians are permitted, based on their medical judgment, to prescribe products for indications other than those approved by the fda, manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products for such off-label uses. we market orkambi and kalydeco to eligible cf patients for whom the applicable product has been approved and provide promotional materials and training programs to physicians regarding the use of orkambi and kalydeco in these patient populations. these eligible patients represent only a portion of the total patients with cf. if the fda determines that our promotional materials, training or other activities constitute off-label promotion, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or other activities, conduct corrective advertising or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. it also is possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they believe that the alleged improper promotion led to the submission and payment of claims for an off-label use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. even if it is later determined we were not in violation of these laws, we may be faced with negative publicity, incur significant expenses defending our actions and have to divert significant management resources from other matters. also applicable to some of our practices is the health insurance portability and accountability act, or hipaa, and its implementing regulations, which created federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program or making false statements relating to health care matters and which also imposes certain regulatory and contractual requirements regarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. in addition, the aca includes various provisions designed to strengthen significantly fraud and abuse enforcement, such as increased funding for enforcement efforts and the lowering of the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback statute and criminal health care fraud statute such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. in recent years, legislation has been adopted at the federal, state and local level requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, health care provider payments and other activities. for example, as part of the aca, the federal government enacted the open payments (commonly known as the sunshine act) provisions. open payments requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to report annually to the centers for medicare and medicaid services payments or other transfers of value made by that entity to physicians and teaching hospitals. we also now have similar reporting obligations throughout the european union. we expended significant efforts to establish, and are continuing to devote significant resources to maintain and enhance, systems and processes in order to comply with these regulations. failure to comply with the reporting requirements would result in significant civil monetary penalties. the sales and marketing practices of our industry have been the subject of increased scrutiny from governmental entities in the united sates and other countries in which we market our products, and we believe that this trend will continue. the risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are subject to a variety of interpretations. if our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any such laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from federal health care programs and/or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, also could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. changes in laws and regulations governing the privacy and protection of data and personal information could adversely affect our business. we are subject to data privacy and protection laws and regulations that apply to the collection, transmission, storage and use of proprietary information and personally-identifying information, including hipaa, which among other things, imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. in addition to hipaa, numerous other federal and state laws, including state security breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws and federal and state consumer protection laws, govern the collection, use and disclosure of personal information. various foreign countries also have, or are developing, laws governing the collection, use and transmission of personal information. the legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing amount of focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect our 30 business. we have in the past relied on adherence to the u.s.-eu safe harbor framework as agreed to and set forth by the u.s. department of commerce and the european union, which established a means for legitimizing the transfer of personal information by u.s. companies doing business in europe from the european economic area to the united states. as a result of a 2015 opinion of the european union court of justice, the u.s.-eu safe harbor framework was deemed to be an invalid method of compliance with restrictions regarding the transfer of data outside of the european economic area. in response to the invalidation of the u.s.-eu safe harbor framework, we have utilized other sanctioned approaches for transferring personal information from the european union to the united states, such as standard contractual clauses that have been approved by the european commission. while we continue to address the implications of changes to european union data privacy regulations, the area remains an evolving landscape with new regulations coming into effect and continued legal challenges and our efforts to comply with the evolving data protection rules may be unsuccessful. failure to comply with laws regarding data protection would expose us to risk of enforcement actions taken by data protection authorities in the european union and the potential for significant penalties if we are found to be non-compliant. even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could harm our business. on january 1, 2015, the ema adopted a new policy on publication of clinical data whereby it will publish clinical reports submitted as part of maas for drugs. the policy applies to all clinical reports submitted after january 1, 2015 and the reports will be released as soon as a decision on the application has been made by the ema. while implementation of this policy is ongoing and its full effect on our business is not yet known, the ability of third-parties to review and/or analyze the raw data from our clinical trials may increase the risk of patient confidentiality breaches and could result in enhanced scrutiny of our clinical trials results. such scrutiny could result in misconceptions being spread about our drugs and drug candidates, even if the underlying analysis of such review turns out to be flawed. these publications could also result in the disclosure of information to our competitors that we might otherwise deem confidential, which could harm our competitive position. the increasing use of social media platforms presents risks and challenges. social media increasingly is being used by third parties to communicate about our products and drug candidates and the diseases our therapies are designed to treat. we believe that members of the cf community may be more active on social media as compared to other patient populations due to the demographics of this patient population. social media practices in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are evolving, which creates uncertainty and risk of noncompliance with regulations applicable to our business. for example, patients may use social media platforms to comment on the effectiveness of, or adverse experiences with, a drug or a drug candidate, which could result in reporting obligations. in addition, there is a risk of inappropriate disclosure of sensitive information or negative or inaccurate posts or comments about us on any social networking website. if any of these events were to occur or we otherwise fail to comply with applicable regulations, we could incur liability, face restrictive regulatory actions or incur other harm to our business. risks related to development, clinical testing and regulation of our products and drug candidates our drug candidates remain subject to clinical testing and regulatory approval. if we are unable to successfully develop additional drug candidates, and in particular tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor and triple combination regiments including next-generation cftr corrector compounds, our business will be materially harmed. our business depends upon the successful development and commercialization of drug candidates. these drug candidates are in various stages of development and must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before they can be approved for sale by the fda or comparable foreign regulatory authorities. to satisfy these standards, we must allocate resources among our various development programs and must engage in expensive and lengthy testing of our drug candidates. discovery and development efforts for new pharmaceutical products, including new combination therapies, are resource-intensive and may take 10 to 15 years or longer for each drug candidate. despite our efforts, our drug candidates may not: offer therapeutic or other improvement over existing competitive therapies; be proven safe and effective in clinical trials; meet applicable regulatory standards; be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs; or 31 if approved for commercial sale, be successfully marketed as pharmaceutical products. we have recently completed and/or have ongoing or planned clinical trials for several of our drug candidates, including drug candidates for the treatment of cf, oncology, pain and neurology. the strength of our company's product portfolio and pipeline will depend in large part upon the outcomes of these clinical trials and our ability to develop and commercialize combination treatments for cf that include ivacaftor in combination with (i) tezacaftor and/or (ii) our next-generation cftr corrector compounds, including vx-152, vx-440, vx-659 and vx-445. results of our clinical trials and findings from our nonclinical studies, including toxicology findings in nonclinical studies conducted concurrently with clinical trials, could lead to abrupt changes in our development activities, including the possible cessation of development activities associated with a particular drug candidate or program. moreover, clinical data are often susceptible of varying interpretations and analyses, and many companies that have believed their drug candidates performed satisfactorily in clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain marketing approval of their drug candidate. furthermore, results from our clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the fda or other regulatory authorities for approval of a drug candidate. many companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including our company, have suffered significant setbacks in later-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in earlier-stage clinical trials. accordingly, the results from completed preclinical studies and clinical trials may not be replicated in later clinical trials, and ongoing clinical trials for our drug candidates may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later-stage clinical trials or of the likelihood of approval of a drug candidate for commercial sale. in addition, from time to time we report interim data from our clinical trials. interim data from a clinical trial may not be predictive of final results from the clinical trial. if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval, we will be unable to commercialize our drug candidates. the time required to complete clinical trials and to satisfy the fda and other countries' regulatory review processes is uncertain and typically takes many years. our analysis of data obtained from nonclinical and clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. we also may encounter unanticipated delays or increased costs due to government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in governmental policy during the period of drug development, clinical trials and governmental regulatory review. we may seek a fast track and/or breakthrough therapy designation for some of our drug candidates. for example, a number of our drugs and drug candidates, including ivacaftor, lumacaftor, tezacaftor, vx-371, vx-440, vx-152, vx-445 and vx-220 have been granted fast track designation in the united states. ivacaftor and the combination regimens of lumacaftor with ivacaftor and tezacaftor with ivacaftor were designated as breakthrough therapies. drug candidates that receive one or both of these designations may be eligible for, among other things, a priority regulatory review. each of these designations is within the discretion of the fda. accordingly, even if we believe one of our drug candidates meets the criteria for fast track and/or breakthrough therapy designation, the fda may disagree and instead determine not to make such designation. the receipt of one or both of these designations for a drug candidate does not guarantee a faster development process, review or approval compared to drugs considered for approval under conventional fda procedures and does not assure ultimate approval by the fda. in addition, even if one or more of our drugs or drug candidates qualifies for fast track and/or breakthrough therapy designation, the fda may later decide to withdraw such designation if it determines that the drug or drug candidate no longer meets the conditions for qualification. any failure to obtain regulatory approvals for a drug candidate would prevent us from commercializing that drug candidate. any delay in obtaining required regulatory approvals could materially adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize a drug candidate. furthermore, any regulatory approval to market a drug may be subject to limitations that we do not expect on the indicated uses for which we may market the drug. any such limitations could reduce the size of the market for the drug. we also are subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement. non-u.s. jurisdictions have different approval procedures than those required by the fda, and these jurisdictions may impose additional testing requirements for our drug candidates. the foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with the fda approval process described above, as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of foreign requirements. approval by the fda does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities outside the united states and approval by a foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by the fda. in addition, although the fda may accept data from clinical trials conducted outside the united states, acceptance of this data is subject to conditions imposed by the fda. for example, the clinical trial must be well 32 designed and conducted and performed by qualified investigators in accordance with ethical principles. the trial population also must adequately represent the u.s. population, and the data must be applicable to the u.s. population and u.s. medical practice in ways that the fda deems clinically meaningful. in addition, while these clinical trials are subject to the applicable local laws, fda acceptance of the data will depend on its determination that the trials also complied with all applicable u.s. laws and regulations. if the fda does not accept the data from any trial that we conduct outside the united states, it would likely result in the need for additional trials, which would be costly and time-consuming and delay or permanently halt our development of the applicable drug candidate. if clinical trials are prolonged or delayed, our development timelines for the affected development program could be extended, our costs to develop the drug candidate could increase and the competitive position of the drug candidate could be adversely affected. we cannot predict whether or not we will encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause us or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend clinical trials, or delay the analysis of data from our completed or ongoing clinical trials. among the factors that could delay our development programs are: ongoing discussions with the fda or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials and the number of clinical trials we must conduct; delays in enrolling volunteers or patients into clinical trials, including as a result of low numbers of patients that meet the eligibility criteria for the trial; a lower than anticipated retention rate of volunteers or patients in clinical trials; the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive results, unforeseen complications in testing or clinical investigator error; inadequate supply or deficient quality of drug candidate materials or other materials necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials; unfavorable fda or foreign regulatory authority inspection and review of a manufacturing facility that supplied clinical trial materials or its relevant manufacturing records or a clinical trial site or records of any clinical or preclinical investigation; unfavorable scientific results from clinical trials; serious and unexpected drug-related side-effects experienced by participants in our clinical trials or by participants in clinical trials being conducted by our competitors to evaluate drug candidates with similar mechanisms of action or structures to drug candidates that we are developing; favorable results in testing of our competitors' drug candidates, or fda or foreign regulatory authority approval of our competitors' drug candidates; or action by the fda or a foreign regulatory authority to place a clinical hold or partial clinical hold on a trial or compound or deeming the clinical trial conduct as problematic. our ability to enroll patients in our clinical trials in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis is subject to a number of factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the number of other clinical trials ongoing and competing for patients in the same indication and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. in addition, patients may drop out of our clinical trials or may be lost to follow-up medical evaluation after treatment ends, and this could impair the validity or statistical significance of the trials. delays in patient enrollment or unforeseen drop-out rates may result in increased costs and longer development times. we, our collaborators, the fda or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a drug candidate at any time if we or they believe the healthy volunteers or patients participating in such clinical trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. any such suspension could materially adversely affect the development of a particular drug candidate and our business. 33 if our processes and systems are not compliant with regulatory requirements, we could be subject to restrictions on marketing our products or could be delayed in submitting regulatory filings seeking approvals for our drug candidates. we have a number of regulated processes and systems that are required to obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our drugs and drug candidates. these processes and systems are subject to continual review and periodic inspection by the fda and other regulatory bodies. in addition, the clinical research organizations and other third parties that we work with in our non-clinical studies and clinical trials and our oversight of such parties are subject to similar reviews and periodic inspection by the fda and other regulatory bodies. if compliance issues are identified at any point in the development and approval process, we may experience delays in filing for regulatory approval for our drug candidates, or delays in obtaining regulatory approval after filing. any later discovery of previously unknown problems or safety issues with approved drugs or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in restrictions on such drugs or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of drugs from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal penalties or a refusal by the fda and/or other regulatory bodies to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we are a party to agreements that transfer responsibility for complying with specified regulatory requirements, such as filing and maintenance of marketing authorizations and safety reporting or compliance with manufacturing requirements, to our collaborators and third-party manufacturers. if our collaborators or third-party manufacturers do not fulfill these regulatory obligations, any drugs for which we or they obtain approval may be subject to later restrictions on manufacturing or sale, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. risks related to collaborations and other business development activities our ability to execute on our long-term strategy depends in part on our ability to acquire rights to additional drugs, drug candidates and other technologies that have the potential to add to our pipeline or provide us with new commercial opportunities. in order to achieve our long-term business objectives, our strategy is to supplement our internal pipeline by acquiring rights to additional drugs, drug candidates and other technologies that have the potential to provide us with new commercial opportunities, including in the field of treating cf and in therapeutic areas outside of cf. we may not be able to acquire, in-license or otherwise obtain rights to additional drugs, drug candidates or other technologies on acceptable terms or at all. we have faced and will continue to face significant competition for these types of drugs, drug candidates and other technologies from a variety of other companies with interests in the specialty pharmaceutical marketplace, many of which have significantly more financial resources and experience in business development activities than we have. in addition, non-profit organizations may be willing to provide capital to the companies that control additional drugs, drug candidates or technologies, which may provide incentives for companies to advance these drugs, drug candidates or technologies independently. because of these competitive pressures, the cost of acquiring, in-licensing or otherwise obtaining rights to such drugs, drug candidates or other technologies has grown dramatically in recent years and may be at levels that we cannot afford or that we believe are not justified by market potential. this competition is most intense for approved drugs and late-stage drug candidates, which have the lowest risk and would have the most immediate effect on our financial performance. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of potential acquisitions or licenses to businesses, drugs, drug candidates and other technologies, and the integration following any such acquisition or license may disrupt our business and management. we may acquire a business or the rights to drugs, drug candidates or other technologies. in recent years we have entered into numerous collaboration agreements, including our collaboration with parion pursuant to which we exclusively licensed investigational enac inhibitors, including vx-371, our agreement with crispr to collaborate on the discovery and development of potential new treatments aimed at the underlying genetic causes of human diseases using crispr-cas9 gene editing technology and our agreement with moderna pursuant to which we are seeking to identify and develop mrna therapeutics for the treatment of cf. with respect to each of these transactions and any additional acquisition of a business or rights to drugs, drug candidates or other technologies, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of such transaction, each of which involves numerous risks. these risks include: failure to successfully further develop the acquired or licensed drugs or technology or to achieve strategic objectives, including successfully developing and commercializing the drugs, drug candidates or technologies that we acquire or license; 34 inadequate or unfavorable data from clinical trials evaluating the acquired or licensed drug or drug candidates; entry into markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience or where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management and employees from other opportunities and challenges; potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired company, or acquired or licensed product or technology, including but not limited to, problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges with respect to intellectual property, product quality, safety, accounting practices, employee, customer or third party relations and other known and unknown liabilities; liability for activities of the acquired company or licensor before the acquisition or license, including intellectual property infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities; exposure to litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risk as a result of an acquisition or license, including but not limited to, claims from terminated employees, customers, former equity holders or other third-parties; difficulty in integrating the drugs, drug candidates, technologies, business operations and personnel of an acquired company; and difficulties in the integration of the acquired company's departments, systems, including accounting, human resource and other administrative systems, technologies, books and records, and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards, controls, including internal control over financial reporting required by the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and related procedures and policies. acquisitions and licensing arrangements are inherently risky, and ultimately, if we do not complete an announced acquisition or license transaction or integrate an acquired business, or an acquired or licensed drug, drug candidate or other technology successfully and in a timely manner, we may not realize the benefits of the acquisition or license to the extent anticipated and the perception of the effectiveness of our management team and our company may suffer in the marketplace. additionally, we may later incur impairment charges related to assets acquired in any such transaction. for example, we acquired or licensed several drug candidates for the treatment of hcv infection, but due to adverse clinical data regarding these drug candidates and competitive pressures, we incurred significant costs and impairment charges but did not realize the expected benefits from these transactions. in addition, even if we achieve the long-term benefits associated with strategic transactions, our expenses and short-term costs may increase materially and adversely affect our liquidity and short-term net income (loss). future licenses or acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, the creation of contingent liabilities, impairment expenses related to goodwill, and impairment or amortization expenses related to other intangible assets, which could harm our financial condition. we face risks in connection with existing and future collaborations with respect to the development, manufacture and commercialization of our products and drug candidates. the risks that we face in connection with our current collaborations, including with parion, crispr, merck kgaa, moderna and janssen inc. and any future collaborations include the following: our collaborators may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts or may have insufficient resources to effectively develop our drug candidates. the ability of some of our products and drug candidates to reach their potential could be limited if collaborators decrease or fail to increase development or commercialization efforts related to those products or drug candidates. our collaboration agreements provide our collaborators with a level of discretion in determining the amount and timing of efforts and resources that they will apply to these collaborations. any future collaboration agreements may have the effect of limiting the areas of research and development that we may pursue, either alone or in collaboration with third parties. 35 collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, drugs that are similar to or competitive with the drugs or drug candidates that are the subject of their collaborations with us. disagreements with collaborators, including disagreements over proprietary rights, contract interpretation or the preferred course of development, might cause delays or termination of the research, development or commercialization of drug candidates, might lead to additional responsibilities for us with respect to drug candidates, or might result in litigation or arbitration. any such disagreements would divert management attention and resources and be time-consuming and expensive. collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our intellectual property or proprietary information or expose us to potential litigation. collaborators may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may expose us to litigation and potential liability. investigations and/or compliance or enforcement actions against a collaborator, which may expose us to indirect liability as a result of our partnership with such collaborator. our collaboration agreements are subject to termination under various circumstances. additionally, if a collaborator were to be involved in a business combination, it might deemphasize or terminate the development or commercialization of any drug candidate licensed to it by us. if one of our collaborators terminates its agreement with us, we may find it more difficult to attract new collaborators and our perception in the business and financial communities could be harmed. we may not be able to attract collaborators or external funding for the development and commercialization of certain of our drug candidates. as part of our ongoing strategy, we may seek additional collaborative arrangements or external funding for certain of our development programs and/or seek to expand existing collaborations to cover additional commercialization and/or development activities. we have a number of research programs and early-stage clinical development programs, some of which are being developed in collaboration with a third party. for example, in january 2017, we granted merck kgaa an exclusive worldwide license to research, develop and commercialize four of our oncology research and development programs. at any time, we may determine that in order to continue development of a drug candidate or program or successfully commercialize a drug we need to identify a collaborator or amend or expand an existing collaboration. whether we reach a definitive agreement for a collaboration will depend, among other things, upon our assessment of the collaborator's resources and expertise, the terms and conditions of the proposed collaboration and the proposed collaborator's evaluation of a number of factors. those factors may include the design or results of clinical trials, the likelihood of approval by the fda or similar regulatory authorities outside the united states, the potential market for the subject drug candidate, the costs and complexities of manufacturing and delivering such drug candidate to patients, the potential of competing products, the existence of uncertainty with respect to our ownership of the applicable intellectual property, which can exist if there is a challenge to such ownership without regard to the merits of the challenge, and industry and market conditions generally. potentially, and depending on the circumstances, we may desire that a collaborator either agree to fund portions of a drug development program led by us, or agree to provide all of the funding and directly lead the development and commercialization of a program. no assurance can be given that any efforts we make to seek additional collaborative arrangements will be successfully completed on a timely basis or at all. if we elect to fund and undertake development or commercialization activities on our own, we may need to obtain additional expertise and additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. if we are unable to enter into acceptable collaborative relationships, one or more of our development programs could be delayed or terminated and the possibility of our receiving a return on our investment in the program could be impaired. 36 risks related to third-party manufacturing and reliance on third parties we depend on third-party manufacturers to manufacture our products and the materials we require for our clinical trials. we may not be able to maintain these relationships and could experience supply disruptions outside of our control. we rely on a worldwide network of third-party manufacturers and in rare circumstances, compounders, to manufacture some of our drugs for commercial use and our drug candidates for clinical trials. as a result of our reliance on these third-party manufacturers and suppliers, we could be subject to significant supply disruptions outside of our control. our supply chain for sourcing raw materials and manufacturing drug product ready for distribution is a multi-step international endeavor. third-party contract manufacturers, including some in china, supply us with raw materials, and convert these raw materials into drug substance and convert the drug substance into final dosage form. establishing and managing this global supply chain requires a significant financial commitment and the creation and maintenance of numerous third-party contractual relationships. although we attempt to manage the business relationships with companies in our supply chain, we do not have control over their operations. supply disruptions may result from a number of factors, including shortages in product raw materials, labor or technical difficulties, regulatory inspections or restrictions, shipping or customs delays or any other performance failure by any third-party manufacturer on which we rely. any supply disruptions could disrupt sales of our products and/or the timing of our clinical trials. we require a supply of ivacaftor and lumacaftor for commercial sale (as kalydeco and/or orkambi). we also require a supply of our drug candidates for use in our clinical trials. we obtain ivacaftor and lumacaftor (and the combinations thereof) to meet our commercial and clinical supply needs through a third-party manufacturing network. our supply chain includes a single-source manufacturer for (i) one step in the ivacaftor manufacturing process and (ii) the manufacture of the oral granule formulation of kalydeco that is used for patients with cf two to five years of age. as a result, if these manufacturers become unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing product on our behalf and we are not able to promptly identify another manufacturer, we would experience a disruption in the commercial supply of orkambi and/or kalydeco, which would have a significant effect on patients, our business and our product revenues. similarly, a disruption in the clinical supply of drug products could delay the completion of clinical trials and affect timelines for regulatory filings. there can be no assurance that we will be able to establish and maintain secondary manufacturers for all of our ivacaftor or lumacaftor supply needs on a timely basis or at all. in the course of providing its services, a contract manufacturer may develop process technology related to the manufacture of our products or drug candidates that the manufacturer owns, either independently or jointly with us. this would increase our reliance on that manufacturer or require us to obtain a license from that manufacturer in order to have our products or drug candidates manufactured by other suppliers utilizing the same process. we rely on third parties to conduct certain pre-clinical work and clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such studies and/or trials or failing to satisfy regulatory requirements. we rely on third parties such as contract research organizations to help manage certain pre-clinical work and our clinical trials and on medical institutions, clinical investigators and clinical research organizations such as the therapeutic development network, which is primarily funded by the cfft, to assist in the design and review of, and to conduct our clinical trials, including enrolling qualified patients. our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities but does not relieve us of our responsibilities. for example, we remain responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the clinical trial. moreover, the fda requires us to comply with standards, commonly referred to as good laboratory practices and good clinical practices for conducting, recording and reporting the results of pre-clinical and clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. if these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be required to replace them. although we believe that there are a number of other third-party contractors we could engage to continue these activities, it may result in a delay of the affected clinical trial or drug development program. if clinical trials are not conducted in accordance with our contractual expectations or regulatory requirements, action by regulatory authorities might significantly and adversely affect the conduct or progress of these clinical trials or in specific circumstances might result in a requirement that a clinical trial be redone. accordingly, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize our drug candidates could be delayed. 37 risks related to intellectual property if our patents do not protect our drugs or our drugs infringe third-party patents, we could be subject to litigation and substantial liabilities. we have numerous issued patents and pending patent applications in the united states, as well as counterparts in other countries. our success will depend, in significant part, on our ability to obtain and defend u.s. and foreign patents covering our drugs, their uses and our processes, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. we cannot be certain that any patents will issue from our pending patent applications or, even if patents issue or have issued, that the issued claims will provide us with adequate protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially valuable. due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents, our ability to obtain, maintain and enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. recent patent reform legislation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents in the u.s. the leahy-smith america invents act, or the leahy-smith act, includes a number of significant changes to united states patent law. these include provisions that affect the way patent applications are prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. the united states patent office developed new regulations and procedures to govern administration of the leahy-smith act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the leahy-smith act, and in particular, the first to file provisions, became effective in march 2013. the first to file provisions limit the rights of an inventor who is the first to invent an invention but is not the first to file an application claiming that invention. u.s. and foreign patent applications typically are maintained in confidence for a period of time after they initially are filed with the applicable patent office. consequently, we cannot be certain that we were the first to invent, or the first to file patent applications on, our products or drug candidates or their use. if a third party also has filed a u.s. patent application relating to our drugs or drug candidates, their uses, or a similar invention, we may have to participate in legal or administrative proceedings to determine priority of invention. for applications governed by the lahey-smith act, if a third-party has an earlier filed u.s. patent application relating to our drugs or drug candidates, their uses, or a similar invention, we may be unable to obtain an issued patent from our application. the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its inventorship, scope, validity or enforceability. our patents may be challenged by third parties, resulting in the patent being deemed invalid, unenforceable or narrowed in scope, or the third party may circumvent any such issued patents. also, our pending patent applications may not issue, and we may not receive any additional patents. our patents might not contain claims that are sufficiently broad to prevent others from utilizing our technologies. for instance, the issued patents relating to our drugs or drug candidates may be limited to a particular molecule or molecules and may not cover similar molecules that have similar clinical properties. consequently, our competitors may independently develop competing products that do not infringe our patents or other intellectual property. in addition, if the breadth or strength of protection provided by our patents and patent applications is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to license, develop or commercialize current or future products. the laws of many foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the united states and many companies in our segment of the pharmaceutical industry have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. if we encounter such difficulties in protecting or are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, our business could be substantially harmed. because of the extensive time required for the discovery, development, testing and regulatory review of drug candidates, it is possible that, a patent may expire before a drug candidate can be commercialized, or a patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization of such drug candidate resulting in a minimal, if any, period of patent exclusivity. to the extent our drug candidates are not commercialized significantly ahead of the expiration date of any applicable patent, or to the extent we have no patent protection on such drug candidates, then, to the extent available we would rely on other forms of exclusivity, such as regulatory exclusivity provided by the fdca and its counterpart agencies in various jurisdictions, and/or orphan drug exclusivity. 38 uncertainty over intellectual property in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry has been the source of litigation and other disputes, which is inherently costly and unpredictable. there is considerable uncertainty within our industry about the validity, scope and enforceability of many issued patents in the united states and elsewhere in the world, and, to date, the law and practice remains in substantial flux both in the agencies that grant patents and in the courts. we cannot currently determine the ultimate scope and validity of patents which may be granted to third parties in the future or which patents might be asserted as being infringed by the manufacture, use and sale of our products. there has been, and we expect that there may continue to be, significant litigation in the industry regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. litigation, arbitrations, administrative proceedings and other legal actions with private parties and governmental authorities concerning patents and other intellectual property rights may be protracted, expensive and distracting to management. competitors may sue us as a way of delaying the introduction of our drugs or to remove our drugs from the market. any litigation, including litigation related to abbreviated new drug applications, or anda, litigation related to 505(b)(2) applications, interference proceedings to determine priority of inventions, derivations proceedings, inter partes review, oppositions to patents in foreign countries, litigation against our collaborators or similar actions, may be costly and time consuming and could harm our business. we expect that litigation may be necessary in some instances to determine the validity and scope of certain of our proprietary rights. litigation may be necessary in other instances to determine the validity, scope or non-infringement of certain patent rights claimed by third parties to be pertinent to the manufacture, use or sale of our products. ultimately, the outcome of such litigation could adversely affect the validity and scope of our patent or other proprietary rights, hinder our ability to manufacture and market our products, or result in the assessment of significant monetary damages against us that may exceed amounts, if any, accrued in our financial statements. to the extent that valid present or future third-party patents or other intellectual property rights cover our drugs, drug candidates or technologies, we or our strategic collaborators may seek licenses or other agreements from the holders of such rights in order to avoid or settle legal claims. such licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, which may hinder our ability to, or prevent us from being able to, manufacture and market our drugs. payments under any licenses that we are able to obtain would reduce our profits derived from the covered products. we may be subject to claims by third parties asserting that our employees or we have misappropriated their intellectual property, or claiming ownership of what we regard as our own intellectual property. many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. although we try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of any such employee's former employer. litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. in addition, while it is our policy to require our employees and contractors who may be involved in the development of intellectual property to execute agreements assigning such intellectual property to us, we may be unsuccessful in executing such an agreement with each party who in fact develops intellectual property that we regard as our own. our and their assignment agreements may not be self-executing or may be breached, and we may be forced to bring claims against third parties, or defend claims they may bring against us, to determine the ownership of what we regard as our intellectual property. if we fail in prosecuting or defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. even if we are successful in prosecuting or defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. risks related to our operations risks associated with operating in foreign countries could materially adversely affect our business. we have expanded our international operations over the past several years in order to market orkambi and kalydeco and expand our research and development capabilities. in 2016, a significant portion of our revenues and expenses were associated with our foreign operations and we expect that portion to increase over time as we complete reimbursement discussions in europe for orkambi. new laws and industry codes in the european union and elsewhere have expanded transparency requirements regarding payments and transfers of value as well as patient-level clinical trial 39 data. new laws in the european union also have expanded protections related to personal data and provided for increased sanctions for violations. collectively, our expansion and these new requirements are adding to our compliance costs and expose us to potential sanctions for failing to meet the enhanced safeguards and reporting demands in these jurisdictions. in addition, a significant portion of our commercial supply chain, including sourcing of raw materials and manufacturing, is located in china and the european union. consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to risks related to operating in foreign countries. risks associated with conducting operations in foreign countries include: differing regulatory requirements for drug approvals and regulation of approved drugs in foreign countries; varying reimbursement regimes and difficulties or the inability to obtain reimbursement for our products in a timely manner; differing patient treatment infrastructures, particularly since our business is focused on the treatment of rare diseases that are typically prescribed by specialist physicians; collectibility of accounts receivable; changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements, the risks of which appear to have increased in the current political environment; economic weakness, including recession and inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; differing levels of enforcement and/or recognition of contractual and intellectual property rights; complying with local laws and regulations, which are interpreted and enforced differently across jurisdictions and which can change significantly over time; foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes; foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in reduced revenues or increased operating expenses, and other obligations incident to doing business or operating in another country; workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the united states; import and export licensing requirements, tariffs, and other trade and travel restrictions; production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism. our revenues are subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations due to the global nature of our operations. although we have foreign currency forward contracts to hedge forecasted product revenues denominated in foreign currencies, our efforts to reduce currency exchange losses may not be successful. as a result, currency fluctuations among our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar, and the currencies in which we do business will affect our operating results, often in unpredictable ways. in addition, our international operations are subject to regulation under u.s. law. for example, the foreign corrupt practices act prohibits u.s. companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad. in many countries, the health care professionals we regularly interact with may meet the definition of a foreign government official for purposes of the foreign corrupt practices act. we also are subject to import/export control laws. failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including the possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls, seizures, withdrawal of an approved product from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions, the prosecution of executives overseeing our international operations and corresponding bad publicity and negative perception of our company in foreign countries. 40 if we fail to manage our operations effectively, our business may suffer. we have expanded and are continuing to expand our global operations and capabilities, which has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational, research and development and financial infrastructure. to effectively manage our business, we need to: implement and clearly communicate our corporate-wide strategies; enhance our operational and financial infrastructure, including our controls over records and information; enhance our operational, financial and management processes, including our cross-functional decision-making processes and our budget prioritization systems; train and manage our global employee base; transition from a u.s.-centric company into an organization capable of developing and commercializing multiple drug candidates in international markets; and enhance our compliance and legal resources. risk relating to the referendum of the united kingdom's membership of the european union. our european headquarters and european research facility are located in the united kingdom, and a significant portion of our ex-u.s. net product revenues are derived from sales in the united kingdom. in june 2016, the united kingdom, or the u.k., held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the european union commonly referred to as brexit. it is expected that the u.k. government will provide official notice in the first half of 2017, and after notice is provided the parties will negotiate the terms of the u.k.'s withdrawal from the european union. the withdrawal could, among other outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the u.k. and the e.u., undermine bilateral cooperation in key policy areas and significantly disrupt trade between the u.k. and the e.u. in addition, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the u.k. determines which e.u. laws to replace or replicate. given the lack of comparable precedent, it is unclear what financial, trade, regulatory and legal implications the withdrawal of the u.k. from the e.u. would have and how such withdrawal would affect us. the announcement of brexit caused significant volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rate fluctuations that resulted in the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies in which we conduct business. the announcement of brexit and the withdrawal of the u.k. from the e.u. may also create global economic uncertainty, which may cause third-party payors, including governmental organizations, to closely monitor their costs and reduce their spending budgets. any of these effects of brexit, among others, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. our business has a substantial risk of product liability claims and other litigation liability. if we do not obtain appropriate levels of insurance, any potential claims could adversely affect our business. we are or may be involved in various legal proceedings, including securities class action lawsuits and claims related to product liability, intellectual property and breach of contract. such proceedings may involve claims for, or the possibility of, fines and penalties involving substantial amounts of money or other relief, including but not limited to civil or criminal fines and penalties. if any of these legal proceedings were to result in an adverse outcome, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. with respect to product liability and clinical trial risks, in the ordinary course of business we are subject to liability claims and lawsuits, including potential class actions, alleging that our products or drug candidates have caused, or could cause, serious adverse events or other injury. we have product liability insurance and clinical trial insurance in amounts that we believe are adequate to cover this risk. however, our insurance may not provide adequate coverage against all potential liabilities. if a claim is brought against us, we might be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as pay uncovered damage awards resulting from a claim brought successfully against us and these damages could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. furthermore, whether or not we are ultimately successful in defending any such claims, we might be required to direct significant financial and managerial resources to such defense and adverse publicity is likely to result. 41 a breakdown or breach of our information technology systems could subject us to liability or interrupt the operation of our business. we maintain and rely extensively on information technology systems and network infrastructures for the effective operation of our business. in the course of our business, we collect, store and transmit confidential information (including personal information and intellectual property), and it is critical that we do so in a secure manner to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information. the size and complexity of our information technology and information security systems makes such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches. a disruption, infiltration or failure of our information technology systems or any of our data centers as a result of software or hardware malfunctions, computer viruses, cyber attacks, employee theft or misuse, power disruptions, natural disasters, floods or accidents could cause breaches of data security and loss of critical data, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business and subject us to both private and governmental causes of action. while we have implemented security measures in an attempt to minimize these risks to our data and information technology systems and have adopted a business continuity plan to deal with a disruption to our information technology systems, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business. if we fail to attract and retain skilled employees, our business could be materially harmed. because our drug discovery and development activities are highly technical in nature, we require the services of highly qualified and trained scientists who have the skills necessary to conduct these activities. in addition, we need to attract and retain employees with experience in marketing and commercialization of medicines. we face intense competition for our personnel from our competitors and other companies throughout our industry. we also experience competition for the hiring of scientific and clinical personnel from universities and research institutions. moreover, the growth of local biotechnology companies and the expansion of major pharmaceutical companies into the boston area have increased competition for the available pool of skilled employees, especially in technical fields, and the high cost of living in massachusetts makes it difficult to attract employees from other parts of the country to massachusetts. in addition, the available pool of skilled employees would be further reduced if immigration laws change in a manner that increases restrictions on immigration. our ability to commercialize our products, and achieve our research and development objectives, depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands. if we are unable to hire and retain qualified personnel, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. the loss of the services of key employees or the failure to effectively integrate key employees could negatively affect our business. our future success will depend in large part on our ability to retain the services of our key scientific and management personnel and to integrate new scientific and management personnel into our business. a loss of key personnel or a failure to properly integrate new personnel could be disruptive. we have entered into employment agreements with some executives and provide compensation-related benefits to all of our key employees that vest over time and therefore induce them to remain with us. however, the employment agreements can be terminated by the executive on relatively short notice. the value to employees of stock-related benefits that vest over time such as options, restricted stock and restricted stock units is significantly affected by movements in our stock price, and may at any point in time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. a failure to retain, as well as hire, train and effectively integrate into our organization a sufficient number of qualified scientists, professionals, sales personnel and senior management would negatively affect our business. if we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected. our research and development efforts involve the regulated use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various controlled and radioactive compounds. although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by state, federal and foreign regulations, the risk of loss of, or accidental contamination or injury from, these materials cannot be eliminated. if an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. we also are subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. although we maintain workers' compensation insurance to cover us for costs we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. we maintain insurance to cover pollution conditions or other extraordinary or unanticipated events 42 relating to our use and disposal of hazardous materials that we believe is appropriate based on the small amount of hazardous materials we generate. additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. we may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations. if our facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, our operations would be seriously harmed. most of our operations, including our research and development activities, are conducted in a limited number of facilities. if any of our major facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, due to a fire, earthquake or similar event, our operations could be seriously harmed. for example, our corporate headquarters, as well as additional leased space that we use for certain logistical and laboratory operations and manufacturing, are located in a flood zone along the massachusetts coast. we have adopted a business continuity plan to address most crises. however, if we are unable to fully implement our disaster recovery plans, we may experience delays in recovery of data and/or an inability to perform vital corporate functions, which could result in a significant disruption in our research, development, manufacturing and/or commercial activities, the loss or critical data and/or large expenses to repair or replace the facility, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. risks related to holding our common stock our stock price may fluctuate. market prices for securities of companies such as ours are highly volatile. from january 1, 2016 to december 31, 2016, our common stock traded between $71.46 and $124.96 per share. the market for our stock, like that of other companies in the biotechnology industry, has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. the future market price of our securities could be significantly and adversely affected by factors such as: the information contained in our quarterly earnings releases, including our net product revenues and operating expenses for completed periods and guidance regarding future periods; announcements of fda actions with respect to our drugs or our competitors' drugs, or regulatory filings for our drug candidates or those of our competitors, or announcements of interim or final results of clinical trials or nonclinical studies relating to our drugs, drug candidates or those of our competitors; prescription data and other information disclosed by third parties regarding our business or products; technological innovations or the introduction of new drugs by our competitors; government regulatory action; public concern as to the safety of drugs developed by us or our competitors; developments in patent or other intellectual property rights or announcements relating to these matters; developments in domestic and international governmental policy or regulation, for example, relating to intellectual property rights; developments relating specifically to other companies and market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks or stocks in general; business development, capital structuring or financing activities; and general worldwide or national economic, political and capital market conditions. following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, stockholder derivative lawsuits and securities class action litigation are common. such litigation, if instituted against us or our officers and directors, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. 43 our indebtedness could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, and the terms of our credit agreement impose restrictions on our business, reducing our operational flexibility and creating default risks. in october 2016, we entered into a credit agreement providing for a $500 million revolving facility, $300 million of which was drawn at closing. all outstanding borrowings under the credit agreement mature on october 13, 2021. our indebtedness could have important consequences to our business, including increasing our vulnerability to general adverse financial, business, economic and industry conditions, as well as other factors that are beyond our control. the credit agreement requires that we comply with certain financial covenants, including (i) a consolidated leverage ratio covenant and (ii) a consolidated ebitda covenant, in each case to be measured on a quarterly basis. further, the credit agreement includes negative covenants, subject to exceptions, restricting or limiting our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, grant liens, engage in certain investment, acquisition and disposition transactions, pay dividends, repurchase capital stock and enter into transactions with affiliates. as a result, we may be restricted from engaging in business activities that may otherwise improve our business. failure to comply with the covenants could result in an event of default that could trigger acceleration of our indebtedness, which would require us to repay all amounts owing under the credit agreement and/or our capital leases and could have a material adverse effect on our business. additionally, our obligations under the credit agreement are unconditionally guaranteed by certain of our domestic subsidiaries. all obligations under the credit agreement, and the guarantees of those obligations, are secured by substantially all of our assets and the assets of all guarantors (excluding intellectual property, owned and leased real property and certain other excluded property), including the pledge of all or a portion of the equity interests of certain of our subsidiaries. if we fail to satisfy our obligations under the credit agreement or are unable to obtain sufficient funds to make payments, the lenders could foreclose on our pledged collateral. our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuation. our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past, and we expect that they will continue to do so in the future. our revenues are primarily dependent on the level of net product revenues from sales of orkambi and kalydeco and our total net product revenues could vary on a quarterly basis. our total net product revenues may be affected by, among other factors, the timing of orders from our significant customers. additional factors that have caused quarterly fluctuations in recent years include variable amounts of revenues, impairment charges, charges for excess and obsolete inventories, changes in the fair value of derivative instruments and the consolidation or deconsolidation of variable interest entities. our revenues also are subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations due to the global nature of our operations. although we have foreign currency forward contracts to hedge forecasted product revenues denominated in foreign currencies, our efforts to reduce currency exchange losses may not be successful. as a result, currency fluctuations among our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar, and the currencies in which we do business may affect our operating results, often in unpredictable ways. our quarterly results also could be materially affected by significant charges, which may or may not be similar to charges we have experienced in the past. most of our operating expenses relate to our research and development activities, do not vary directly with the amount of revenues and are difficult to adjust in the short term. as a result, if revenues in a particular quarter are below expectations, we are unlikely to reduce operating expenses proportionately for that quarter. these examples are only illustrative and other risks, including those discussed in these risk factors, could also cause fluctuations in our reported financial results. our operating results during any one period do not necessarily suggest the results of future periods. we expect that results from our clinical development activities and the clinical development activities of our competitors will continue to be released periodically, and may result in significant volatility in the price of our common stock. any new information regarding our products and drug candidates or competitive products or potentially competitive drug candidates can substantially affect investors' perceptions regarding our future prospects. we, our collaborators and our competitors periodically provide updates regarding drug development programs, typically through press releases, conference calls and presentations at medical conferences. these periodic updates often include interim or final results from clinical trials conducted by us or our competitors and/or information about our or our competitors' expectations regarding regulatory filings and submissions as well as future clinical development of our products or drug candidates, competitive products or potentially competitive drug candidates. the timing of the release of information by us regarding our drug development programs is often beyond our control and is influenced by the timing of receipt of data from our clinical trials and by the general preference among pharmaceutical companies to disclose clinical data during medical conferences. in addition, the information disclosed about our clinical trials, or our competitors' clinical trials, may be based on interim rather than final data that may involve interpretation difficulties and may in any event not accurately predict final results. 44 we could be negatively affected by government investigations. in the third quarter of 2015, we received a subpoena from the united states department of justice related to our marketed medicines. this subpoena requested documents relating primarily to our good laboratory practices in a bioanalytical laboratory. we have responded to the subpoena. if this matter is not resolved in a satisfactory manner, our business could be adversely affected. changes in tax laws, regulations and treaties could affect our future taxable income. a change in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation, of any country in which we operate could materially affect us if we generate taxable income in a future period. we continue to assess the impact of various tax reform proposals and modifications to existing tax treaties in all jurisdictions where we have operations to determine the potential effect on our business and any assumptions we have made about our future taxable income. we cannot predict whether any specific proposals will be enacted, the terms of any such proposals or what effect, if any, such proposals would have on our business if they were to be enacted. we may need to raise additional capital that may not be available. we have a history of operating losses and may in the future need to raise additional capital. in recent periods, we also have received significant proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our employee benefit plans, but we received limited proceeds from employee benefit plans in 2016 and the amount and timing of future proceeds from employee benefits plans is uncertain. any potential public offering, private placement or debt financing may or may not be similar to the transactions that we entered into in the past. any debt financing may be on terms that, among other things, include conversion features that could result in dilution to our then-existing security holders and restrict our ability to pay interest and dividends although we do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. additionally, our pledge of specified assets as collateral to secure our obligations under our credit agreement may limit our ability to obtain additional debt financing. any equity financings would result in dilution to our then-existing security holders. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be required to curtail significantly or discontinue one or more of our research, drug discovery or development programs, including clinical trials, incur significant cash exit costs, or attempt to obtain funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, drugs or drug candidates. based on many factors, including general economic conditions, additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. issuances of additional shares of our common stock could cause the price of our common stock to decline. as of december 31, 2016 , we had 248.3 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. as of december 31, 2016 , we also had outstanding options to purchase 12.6 million shares of common stock with a weighted-average exercise price of $81.41 per share. outstanding vested options are likely to be exercised if the market price of our common stock exceeds the applicable exercise price, and, in the future, we expect to issue additional options, restricted stock and restricted stock units to directors and employees. in addition, we may issue additional common stock or restricted securities in the future as part of financing activities or business development activities and any such issuances may have a dilutive effect on our then-existing shareholders. sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market, or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. the issuance of restricted common stock or common stock upon exercise of any outstanding options would be dilutive, and may cause the market price for a share of our common stock to decline. we have adopted anti-takeover provisions and are subject to massachusetts corporate laws that may frustrate any attempt to remove or replace our current management or effectuate a business combination involving vertex. our corporate charter and by-law provisions and massachusetts state laws may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change of control of vertex that might be beneficial to us or our security holders. our charter provides for staggered terms for the members of the board of directors. our by-laws grant the directors a right to adjourn annual meetings of shareholders, and certain provisions of our by-laws may be amended only with an 80% shareholder vote. we may issue shares of any class or series of preferred stock in the future without shareholder approval and upon such terms as our board of directors may determine. the rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any class or series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. massachusetts state law prohibits us from engaging in specified business combinations, unless the combination is approved or consummated in a prescribed manner, and prohibits voting by any shareholder who acquires 20% or more of our voting 45 stock without shareholder approval. as a result, shareholders or other parties may find it more difficult to remove or replace our current management. additionally, one of our collaboration agreements includes a change in control provision that could reduce the potential acquisition price an acquirer is willing to pay or discourage a takeover attempt that may otherwise be viewed as beneficial to shareholders. special note regarding forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k and, in particular, the description of our business set forth in item 1, the risk factors set forth in this item 1a and our management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations set forth in item 7 contain or incorporate a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding: our expectations regarding the amount of, timing of and trends with respect to our revenues, costs and expenses and other gains and losses, including those related to net product revenues from kalydeco and orkambi; our expectations regarding clinical trials, development timelines and regulatory authority filings and submissions for ivacaftor, lumacaftor, tezacaftor, vx-371, vx-440, vx-152, vx-659, vx-445, vx-150 and vx-210, as well as the maa for orkambi for patients with cf six to eleven years of age who are homozygous for the f508del mutation in their cftr gene and the nda for tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor; our ability to obtain reimbursement for orkambi in ex-u.s. markets and our ability to otherwise successfully market orkambi and kalydeco or any of our other drug candidates for which we obtain regulatory approval; our expectations regarding the timing and structure of clinical trials of our drugs and drug candidates, including ivacaftor, lumacaftor, tezacaftor, vx-371, vx-440, vx-152, vx-659, vx-445, vx-150 and vx-210, and the expected timing of our receipt of data from our ongoing and planned clinical trials; the data that will be generated by ongoing and planned clinical trials and the ability to use that data to advance compounds, continue development or support regulatory filings; our beliefs regarding the support provided by clinical trials and preclinical and nonclinical studies of our drug candidates for further investigation, clinical trials or potential use as a treatment; our plan to continue investing in our research and development programs and our strategy to develop our drug candidates, alone or with third party-collaborators; the establishment, development and maintenance of collaborative relationships; potential business development activities; potential fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; our ability to use our research programs to identify and develop new drug candidates to address serious diseases and significant unmet medical needs; and our liquidity and our expectations regarding the possibility of raising additional capital. any or all of our forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k may turn out to be wrong. they can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. many factors mentioned in this annual report on form 10-k will be important in determining future results. consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. actual future results may vary materially from expected results. we also provide a cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties under risk factors above in this item 1a. these are factors and uncertainties that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results. other factors and uncertainties besides those listed there could also adversely affect us. 46 without limiting the foregoing, the words believes, anticipates, plans, intends, expects and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. there are a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control, including the factors and uncertainties set forth under risk factors above in this item 1a. in addition, the forward-looking statements contained herein represent our estimate only as of the date of this filing and should not be relied upon as representing our estimate as of any subsequent date. while we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 69 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk as part of our investment portfolio, we own financial instruments that are sensitive to market risks. the investment portfolio is used to preserve our capital until it is required to fund operations, including our research and development activities. none of these market risk-sensitive instruments is held for trading purposes. we do not have derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. interest rate risk we invest our cash in a variety of financial instruments, principally securities issued by the u.s. government and its agencies, investment-grade corporate bonds and commercial paper, and money market funds. these investments are denominated in u.s. dollars. all of our interest-bearing securities are subject to interest rate risk and could decline in value if interest rates fluctuate. substantially all of our investment portfolio consists of marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to help ensure portfolio liquidity, and we have implemented guidelines limiting the term-to-maturity of our investment instruments. due to the conservative nature of these instruments, we do not believe that we have a material exposure to interest rate risk. if interest rates were to increase or decrease by 1%, the fair value of our investment portfolio would increase or decrease by an immaterial amount. in october 2016, we entered into a credit agreement. loans under the credit agreement will bear interest, at our option, at either a base rate or a eurodollar rate, in each case plus an applicable margin. the applicable margin on base rate loans ranges from 0.75% to 1.50% and the applicable margin on eurodollar loans ranges from 1.75% to 2.50%, in each case, based on our consolidated leverage ratio (as defined in the credit agreement). we do not believe that changes in interest rates related to the credit agreement would have a material effect on our financial statements. as of december 31, 2016, we had approximately $300.7 million of principle and interest outstanding. if interest rates were to increase or decrease by 1% for the year, annual interest expense would increase or decrease by approximately $3.0 million. foreign exchange market risk as a result of our foreign operations, we face exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the euro, swiss franc, british pound, australian dollar and canadian dollar against the u.s. dollar. the current exposures arise primarily from cash, accounts receivable, intercompany receivables, payables and inventories. both positive and negative affects to our net revenues from international product sales from movements in foreign currency exchange rates are partially mitigated by the natural, opposite affect that foreign currency exchange rates have on our international operating costs and expenses. we have a foreign currency management program with the objective of reducing the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results and forecasted revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies. we currently have hedges for euro, british pound and australian dollar. these cash flow hedges qualify for hedge accounting. as of december 31, 69 2016, we held foreign exchange forward contracts with notional amounts totaling $253.4 million. as of december 31, 2016, our outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts had a net fair value of $15.4 million. based on our foreign currency exchange rate exposures at december 31, 2016, a hypothetical 10% adverse fluctuation in exchange rates would decrease the fair value of our foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges by approximately $25.3 million at december 31, 2016. the resulting loss on these forward contracts would be offset by the gain on the underlying transactions and therefore would have minimal impact on future anticipated earnings and cash flows. similarly, adverse fluctuations in exchange rates that would decrease the fair value of our foreign exchange forward contracts that are not designated as hedge instruments would be offset by a positive impact of the underlying monetary assets and liabilities.risk factors 23 risk factors risk factors investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk, and you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k. if any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer, possibly materially. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. risks related to our business all of our product revenues and the vast majority of our total revenues are derived from sales of medicines for the treatment of cystic fibrosis. if we are unable to continue to increase revenues from sales of our cystic fibrosis medicines or if we do not meet the expectations of investors or public equity market analysts, our business would be materially harmed and the market price of our common stock would likely decline. substantially all of our net product revenues and the vast majority of our total revenues are derived from the sale of cf medicines. orkambi and kalydeco net product revenues represented approximately 53% and 34% of our total revenues in the year ended december 31, 2017, respectively. as a result, our future success is dependent on our ability to continue to increase revenues from sales of our cf medicines. in the near term, this will require us to increase cf net product revenues from our current medicines, including symdeko which was approved by the fda in february 2018. in the longer term, this will require us to successfully develop, obtain approval for and commercialize at least one triple combination therapy that will allow us to treat patients who have one copy of the f508del mutation in their cftr gene and a second mutation in their cftr gene that results in minimal cftr function and to improve the treatment options available to patients with cf who are eligible for our current medicines. our concentrated source of revenues presents a number of risks to our business, including: that one or more competing therapies may successfully be developed as a treatment for patients with cf; that we may experience adverse developments with respect to development or commercialization of our cf medicines and/or cf drug candidates; and that reimbursement policies of payors and other third parties may make it difficult to obtain reimbursement or reduce the net price we receive for our products. additionally, each of our commercial products and our triple combination treatment regimens contain ivacaftor or vx-561, a deuterated version of ivacaftor. as a result, if any of our products or drug candidates were to experience safety issues, orkambi, kalydeco and symdeko, as well as one or more of our drug candidates, may be adversely affected. if one or more of the above risks were to materialize or if we are otherwise unable to increase revenues from sales of our cf medicines, our business would be materially harmed and our stock price would likely decline. we are investing significant resources in the development of our next-generation cftr corrector compounds in triple combinations and if we are unable to show the safety and efficacy of these compounds, experience delays in doing so or are unable to successfully commercialize at least one of these medicines, our business would be materially harmed. we are investing significant resources in the development of our next-generation cftr corrector compounds, and recently selected vx-659 and vx-445 to evaluate in phase 3 clinical development as part of triple combination treatment regimens for patients with cf. we believe that a significant portion of the long-term value attributed to our company by investors is based on the commercial potential of these triple combination therapies. we are planning to initiate phase 3 clinical development of vx-659 in the first half of 2018 and vx-445 in mid-2018 based on ongoing phase 2 clinical trials that enrolled a limited number of patients with cf. we expect to receive additional information regarding these combination regimens, including additional data from these ongoing phase 2 clinical trials of vx-659 and vx-445 and long-term nonclinical toxicology studies of vx-445, in the first half of 2018, which could adversely affect our planned initiation of phase 3 clinical trials for these regimens. in order to ultimately obtain approval for a triple combination regimen, we will need to demonstrate that the compounds are safe and effective in a significantly larger number of patients than were involved in the clinical trials conducted to date. initial results from ongoing clinical trials may differ materially from final results from such clinical trials. the results from preclinical and early clinical studies do not always accurately predict results in later, large-scale clinical trials. if the data 23 from our ongoing or planned clinical trials or non-clinical studies of triple combination regimens including our next-generation cftr compounds are not favorable, the fda and comparable foreign regulatory authorities may not approve these treatment regimens and/or we may be forced to delay or terminate the development of these treatment regimens, which would have an adverse effect on our business. even successfully completed large-scale clinical trials may not result in marketable medicines. if a triple combination that includes a next-generation cftr corrector compounds fails to achieve its primary endpoint in clinical trials, if safety issues arise or if the results from our clinical trials are otherwise inadequate to support regulatory approval of our triple combination therapies, commercialization of that combination regimen could be delayed or halted. even if we gain marketing approval for one or more combination therapies containing a next-generation cftr corrector compound in a timely manner, we cannot be sure that such combination therapy will be commercially successful. in addition, since we expect that a significant portion of the patients for whom a triple combination treatment regimen would be indicated would also be eligible for our then existing medicines, a portion of the revenues from our triple combination regimens will likely displace revenues from our then-marketed products, reducing the overall positive effect of the commercialization of our triple combination regimens on our total revenues. if the anticipated or actual timing of marketing approvals for these triple combination regimens, or the market acceptance of these triple combination regimens, if approved, including treatment reimbursement levels agreed to by third-party payors, do not meet the expectations of investors or public market analysts, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. we have experienced challenges commercializing orkambi outside of the united states, and our future revenues will be dependent on our ability to obtain adequate reimbursement for orkambi, tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor, if approved in ex-u.s. markets, and our future products in ex-u.s. markets. in most ex-u.s. markets, the pricing and reimbursement of therapeutic and other pharmaceutical products is subject to governmental control. given recent global economic pressures and geopolitical uncertainty, government authorities particularly in europe are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of drug products. reimbursement agencies in europe are often more conservative than those in the united states and the reimbursement process is often slower since reimbursement decisions are made on a country-by-country basis. additionally, particular attention is being paid to specialty pharmaceutical products such as kalydeco and orkambi given the relative higher cost of these products as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products. due in part to these challenges, we have recognized limited ex-u.s. net product revenues for orkambi as we have yet to complete reimbursement discussions in many ex-u.s. countries, including the united kingdom and france, which represent significant potential markets for orkambi. in 2017 and 2016, orkambi net product revenues from ex.-u.s. markets represented only 13% and 8% respectively, of our total orkambi net product revenues. our future product revenues will be dependent on, among other things, our ability to complete reimbursement discussions in ex-u.s. markets for orkambi and to obtain reimbursement in ex-u.s. markets for tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor, if approved, and any other products that may be approved in the future, including our triple combination regimens. there is no assurance that coverage and reimbursement will be available outside of the united states and, even if it is available, the timing or the level of reimbursement may not be satisfactory. adverse pricing limitations or a delay in obtaining coverage and reimbursement would decrease our future net product revenues and harm our business. our business depends on our ability to obtain marketing authorization and reimbursement for tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor in ex-u.s. markets. if we are unable to obtain marketing authorization or experience material delays in obtaining marketing authorization for, or reimbursement arrangements relating to, tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor in ex-u.s. markets, our business could be materially harmed. in 2017, we submitted an maa in europe seeking approval of tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor in patients with cf 12 years of age and older who have certain mutations in their cftr gene. we expect the ema to complete its review in the second half of 2018. obtaining approval of an maa is a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process, and we may not be successful. obtaining approval depends on many factors including: whether or not the european regulatory authorities determine that the evidence gathered in well-controlled clinical trials, other clinical trials and nonclinical studies demonstrates that the combination regimen is safe and effective; and whether or not the european regulatory authorities are satisfied that the manufacturing facilities, processes and controls for the combination are adequate, that the labeling is satisfactory and that plans for post-marketing studies, safety monitoring and risk evaluation and mitigation are sufficient. 24 obtaining approval for the combination of tezacaftor and ivacaftor in one country or region does not ensure that we will be able to obtain marketing authorization in any other country or region. even if tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor is approved, the european commission may limit the indications for which the product may be marketed, require extensive warnings on the product labeling or require expensive and time-consuming clinical trials or reporting as conditions of approval. if we do not obtain approval to market the combination of tezacaftor and ivacaftor in europe, our business will be materially harmed. additionally, even if the combination of tezacaftor and ivacaftor receives marketing approval in europe, coverage and reimbursement may not be available and, even if it is available, the level of reimbursement may not be satisfactory. we only recently became profitable, and we cannot predict the extent of our future profitability. we achieved annual profitability on a gaap basis in 2017 for the first time since 2011. our ability to sustain profitability depends on the extent to which we can continue to increase our revenue and control our costs in order to, among other things, counter any unforeseen difficulties, complications or other unknown factors that may impair future revenue or require additional expenditures. our ability to increase our revenues is dependent on our ability to successfully commercialize symdeko and to develop and commercialize additional products, including our triple combination regimens. our operating expenses may increase due to, among other factors, additional investments to support or accelerate our research and development activities, the expansion of our organization, and/or costs associated with business development activities, including costs to acquire assets or programs, integration costs and the costs to develop drug candidates that are acquired. because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with pharmaceutical product development, we are unable to predict the extent of our future profitability or losses. if we are unable to increase sales of orkambi, sustain sales of kalydeco, successfully commercialize symdeko and our triple combination regimes, and develop additional products, we may not sustain profitability. if our competitors bring drugs with superior product profiles to market, our drugs may not be competitive and our revenues could decline. many of our competitors, including major pharmaceutical companies such as abbvie, bristol-myers squibb, gilead, johnson &amp; johnson, merck, merck kgaa, novartis, pfizer, sanofi and roche, possess substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we possess. potential competitors also include other public and private companies, academic institutions, government agencies, other public and private research organizations and charitable venture philanthropy organizations that conduct research, seek patent protection and/or establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and commercialization. as an example, in 2013 and 2014 we experienced a rapid decline in the number of patients being treated with incivek, a product we previously marketed for the treatment of hepatitis c virus infection. mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may result in even more resources being concentrated among a smaller number of our competitors. smaller and other early-stage companies also may prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. these third parties compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to, or necessary for, our programs. orkambi, kalydeco, symdeko and any drugs that we develop in the future may not be able to compete effectively with marketed drugs or new drugs that may be developed by competitors. the risk of competition is particularly important to our company because substantially all of our revenues as well as our most advanced drug candidates are related to the treatment of patients with cf. there are many other companies developing drugs for the same indications that we are pursuing. in order to compete successfully in these areas, we must demonstrate improved safety, efficacy and/or tolerability, and ease of manufacturing, and gain and maintain market acceptance over competing drugs. a number of companies are seeking to identify and develop drug candidates for the treatment of cf, including galapagos nv in collaboration with abbvie, proqr therapeutics, proteostasis therapeutics, eloxx pharmaceuticals and several private companies. our competitors have research and development programs directed at identifying cftr potentiators, cftr correctors, enac inhibitors and drug candidates with other mechanisms of action or that utilize new therapeutic approaches that seek to address the underlying cause of cf. our success in rapidly developing and commercializing orkambi, kalydeco and symdeko may increase the resources that our competitors allocate to the development of these potential treatments for cf. our competitors are exploring the development of drug candidates both as monotherapies and as part of combination regimens. if one or more competing therapies are successfully developed as a treatment for patients with cf, our revenues from orkambi, kalydeco, symdeko and/or other compounds, if then approved, could face competitive 25 pressures. if one or more competing therapies prove to be superior to our existing products and/or drug candidates for the treatment of cf, our business would be materially adversely affected. if we discover safety issues with any of our products or if we fail to comply with continuing u.s. and applicable foreign regulations, commercialization efforts for the product could be negatively affected, the approved product could lose its approval or sales could be suspended, and our business could be materially harmed. our products are subject to continuing regulatory oversight, including the review of additional safety information. drugs are more widely used by patients once approval has been obtained and therefore side-effects and other problems may be observed after approval that were not seen or anticipated, or were not as prevalent or severe, during pre-approval clinical trials or nonclinical studies. the subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a product could negatively affect commercial sales of the product, result in restrictions on the product or lead to the withdrawal of the product from the market. each of our commercial products and our triple combination treatment regimens contain ivacaftor or vx-561, a deuterated version of ivacaftor. as a result, if any of our products or drug candidates were to experience safety issues, orkambi, kalydeco and symdeko, as well as one or more of our drug candidates, may be adversely affected. the reporting of adverse safety events involving our products or public speculation about such events could cause our stock price to decline or experience periods of volatility. if we or our collaborators fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we or our collaborators may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals for specific products, product recalls and seizures, operating restrictions and/or criminal prosecutions. in addition, the manufacturers we engage to make our products and the manufacturing facilities in which our products are made are subject to periodic review and inspection by the fda and foreign regulatory authorities. if problems are identified during the review or inspection of these manufacturers or manufacturing facilities, it could result in our inability to use the facility to make our product or a determination that inventories are not safe for commercial sale. if physicians and patients do not accept our drugs, or if patients do not remain on treatment or comply with the prescribed dosing regimen, our product revenues would be materially harmed in future periods. our drugs may not gain or maintain market acceptance among physicians and patients. effectively marketing our drugs and any of our drug candidates, if approved, requires substantial efforts, both prior to launch and after approval. physicians may elect not to prescribe our drugs, and patients may elect not to take them or may discontinue use of our drugs after initiation of treatment, for a variety of reasons including: prevalence and severity of adverse side-effects; lack of reimbursement availability from third-party payors, including governmental entities; lower demonstrated efficacy, safety and/or tolerability compared to alternative treatment methods; lack of cost-effectiveness; a decision to wait for the approval of other therapies in development that have significant perceived advantages over our drug; convenience and ease of administration; other potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; and ineffective sales, marketing and/or distribution support. for example, our net product revenues from orkambi have been affected by discontinuations by patients who had previously initiated treatment with orkambi. if the discontinuation rate for orkambi or any of our other drug products increases, or if our drugs otherwise fail to achieve or maintain market acceptance, we may not be able to generate significant revenues in future periods. government and other third-party payors seek to contain costs of health care through legislative and other means. if they fail to provide coverage and adequate reimbursement rates for our products, our revenues will be harmed. our sales of products depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. third-party payors include government health programs such as medicare and medicaid in the united states and the national health care systems in many international markets, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. the trend in the 26 health care industry is cost containment and efforts of third-party payors to contain or reduce health care costs may adversely affect our ability to establish or maintain appropriate prices for our products or any drugs that we may develop and commercialize. in most ex-u.s. markets, the pricing and reimbursement of therapeutic and other pharmaceutical products is subject to governmental control and such government authorities are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of drug products. in the united states, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental control as currently exists in europe. the patient protection and affordable care act, or the aca, requires discounts under the medicare drug benefit program and increased the rebates paid by pharmaceutical companies on drugs covered by medicaid. the aca also imposes an annual fee, which increases annually, on sales by branded pharmaceutical manufacturers. in addition, third-party payors attempt to contain health care costs by demanding price discounts or rebates and limiting both the types and variety of drugs that they will cover and the amounts that they will pay for drugs. as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our products. we might need to conduct post-marketing studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of our products or any other future products to such payors' satisfaction. such studies might require us to commit a significant amount of management's time and our financial and other resources. our products might not ultimately be considered cost-effective. adequate third-party reimbursement might not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. reimbursement rates vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost products that already are reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other products or services and may reflect budgetary constraints and/or imperfections in the data used to calculate these rates. net prices for products are reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs and privately-negotiated discounts. while we have implemented policies in an effort to comply with mandated reimbursement rates, the u.s. federal government, state governments and private payors frequently pursue actions against pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies alleging that the companies have overstated prices in order to inflate reimbursement rates. any such action could adversely affect the pricing of and revenues from our products. in the united states and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals and initiatives to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell products. for example, the aca was enacted under the prior u.s. administration, and there is significant uncertainty regarding changes in the laws and regulations applicable to the health care system that may be made under the current administration, and, in particular, the effect any such changes may have on our business. some of these proposed and implemented reforms have resulted, or could result, in reduced reimbursement rates and/or more limited access for our current or future products, which would adversely affect our business, operations and financial results. specialty pharmaceuticals are drugs that are prescribed by specialist physicians to treat rare or life-threatening conditions and typically address smaller patient populations. each of orkambi, kalydeco and symdeko is a specialty pharmaceutical product and our research and development programs are primarily focused on developing additional specialty pharmaceutical products. the increasing availability and use of innovative specialty pharmaceuticals, combined with their relative higher cost as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products, is beginning to generate significant third-party payor interest in developing cost-containment strategies targeted to this sector. government regulations in both u.s. and ex-u.s. markets could limit the prices that can be charged for our products and may limit our commercial opportunity. the increasing use of health technology assessments in markets around the world and the financial challenges faced by many governments may lead to significant adverse effects on our business. any legislation or regulatory changes or relaxation of laws that restrict imports of drugs from other countries also could reduce the net price we receive for our products. if regulatory authorities interpret any of our conduct, including our marketing practices, as being in violation of applicable health care laws, including fraud and abuse laws, laws prohibiting off-label promotion, disclosure laws or other similar laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. we are subject to health care fraud and abuse laws, such as the federal false claims act and the anti-kickback provisions of the federal social security act, laws prohibiting off-label product promotion and other similar laws and regulations both in united states and in non-u.s. markets. while we have a corporate compliance program designed to actively identify, prevent and mitigate risk through the implementation of compliance policies and systems and the promotion of a culture of compliance, if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws our business could be materially harmed. the federal anti-kickback law prohibits knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the ordering, 27 furnishing, arranging for or recommending of an item or service that is reimbursable, in whole or in part, by a federal health care program, such as medicare or medicaid. the federal statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, patients, purchasers and formulary managers on the other hand, and therefore constrains our marketing practices and our various service arrangements with physicians, including physicians who make clinical decisions to use our products. although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly and have been interpreted by courts as such. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in promotion for uses that the fda has not approved, known as off-label uses, that caused claims to be submitted to medicaid for non-covered off-label uses; submitting inflated best price information to the medicaid rebate program; and certain manufacturing-related violations. the scope of this and other laws may expand in ways that make compliance more difficult and expensive. although physicians are permitted, based on their medical judgment, to prescribe products for indications other than those approved by the fda, manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products for such off-label uses. we market orkambi, kalydeco and symdeko to eligible cf patients for whom the applicable product has been approved and provide promotional materials and training programs to physicians regarding the use of orkambi, kalydeco and symdeko in these patient populations. these eligible patients represent only a portion of the total patients with cf. if the fda determines that our promotional materials, training or other activities constitute off-label promotion, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or other activities, conduct corrective advertising or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. it also is possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they believe that the alleged improper promotion led to the submission and payment of claims for an off-label use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. even if it is later determined we were not in violation of these laws, we may be faced with negative publicity, incur significant expenses defending our actions and have to divert significant management resources from other matters. in recent years, legislation has been adopted at the federal, state and local level requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, health care provider payments and other activities. for example, as part of the aca, the federal government enacted the open payments (commonly known as the sunshine act) provisions. open payments requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to report annually to the centers for medicare and medicaid services payments or other transfers of value made by that entity to physicians and teaching hospitals. we also now have similar reporting obligations throughout the european union, or the e.u. we expended significant efforts to establish, and are continuing to devote significant resources to maintain and enhance, systems and processes in order to comply with these regulations. failure to comply with the reporting requirements would result in significant civil monetary penalties. the sales and marketing practices of our industry have been the subject of increased scrutiny from governmental entities in the united sates and other countries in which we market our products, and we believe that this trend will continue. the risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are subject to a variety of interpretations. if our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any such laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from federal health care programs and/or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, also could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. changes in laws and regulations governing the privacy and protection of data and personal information could adversely affect our business. we are subject to data privacy and protection laws and regulations that apply to the collection, transmission, storage and use of proprietary information and personally-identifying information, which among other things, imposes certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. in addition, numerous other federal and state laws, including state security breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws and federal and state consumer protection laws, govern the collection, use, disclosure and security of personal information. 28 various foreign countries also have, or are developing, laws governing the collection, use, disclosure, security, and cross-border transmission of personal information. for example, we are preparing to fulfill our obligations under the new e.u. general data protection regulation, which will be effective in may 2018. the legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing amount of focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect our business. for example, privacy requirements in the e.u. govern the transfer of personal information from the european economic area to the united states. while we continue to address the implications of changes to e.u. data privacy regulations, the area remains an evolving landscape with new regulations coming into effect and continued legal challenges and our efforts to comply with the evolving data protection rules may be unsuccessful. failure to comply with laws regarding data protection would expose us to risk of enforcement actions taken by data protection authorities in the e.u. and the potential for significant penalties if we are found to be non-compliant. similarly, failure to comply with federal and state laws in the united states regarding privacy and security of personal information could expose us to penalties under such laws. even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could harm our business. in 2015, the ema adopted a new policy on publication of clinical data whereby it will publish clinical reports submitted as part of maas for drugs. the policy applies to all maas, extension of indication or line extension applications submitted in or after 2015. the ema aims to publish reports within 60 days after a decision on the application has been made by the european commission. the ability of third-parties to review and/or analyze the raw data from our clinical trials may increase the risk of patient confidentiality breaches and could result in enhanced scrutiny of our clinical trials results. such scrutiny could result in misconceptions being spread about our drugs and drug candidates, even if the underlying analysis of such review turns out to be flawed. these publications could also result in the disclosure of information to our competitors that we might otherwise deem confidential, which could harm our competitive position. the use of social media platforms presents risks and challenges. social media is being used by third parties to communicate about our products and drug candidates and the diseases our therapies are designed to treat. we believe that members of the cf community may be more active on social media as compared to other patient populations due to the demographics of this patient population. social media practices in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are evolving, which creates uncertainty and risk of noncompliance with regulations applicable to our business. for example, patients may use social media platforms to comment on the effectiveness of, or adverse experiences with, a drug or a drug candidate, which could result in reporting obligations. in addition, there is a risk of inappropriate disclosure of sensitive information or negative or inaccurate posts or comments about us on any social networking website. if any of these events were to occur or we otherwise fail to comply with applicable regulations, we could incur liability, face restrictive regulatory actions or incur other harm to our business. risks related to development, clinical testing and regulation of our products and drug candidates our drug candidates remain subject to clinical testing and regulatory approval. our future success is dependent on our ability to successfully develop additional drug candidates for both cf and non-cf indications. our business depends upon the successful development and commercialization of drug candidates. these drug candidates are in various stages of development and must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before they can be approved for sale by the fda or comparable foreign regulatory authorities. to satisfy these standards, we must allocate resources among our various development programs and must engage in expensive and lengthy testing of our drug candidates. discovery and development efforts for new pharmaceutical products, including new combination therapies, are resource-intensive and may take 10 to 15 years or longer for each drug candidate. despite our efforts, our drug candidates may not: offer therapeutic or other improvement over existing competitive therapies; be proven safe and effective in clinical trials; meet applicable regulatory standards; be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs; or if approved for commercial sale, be successfully marketed as pharmaceutical products. we have recently completed and/or have ongoing or planned clinical trials for several of our drug candidates. the strength of our company's product portfolio and pipeline will depend in large part upon the outcomes of these clinical trials 29 and our ability to develop and commercialize combination treatments for cf, including our next-generation cftr corrector compounds and develop treatments for other diseases. results of our clinical trials and findings from our nonclinical studies, including toxicology findings in nonclinical studies conducted concurrently with clinical trials, could lead to abrupt changes in our development activities, including the possible cessation of development activities associated with a particular drug candidate or program. moreover, clinical data are often susceptible of varying interpretations, and many companies that have believed their drug candidates performed satisfactorily in clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain marketing approval of their drug candidate. furthermore, results from our clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the fda or other regulatory authorities for approval of a drug candidate. many companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including our company, have suffered significant setbacks in later-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in earlier-stage clinical trials. accordingly, the results from completed preclinical studies and clinical trials may not be replicated in later clinical trials, and ongoing clinical trials for our drug candidates may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later-stage clinical trials or of the likelihood of approval of a drug candidate for commercial sale. in addition, from time to time we report interim data from our clinical trials. interim data from a clinical trial may not be predictive of final results from the clinical trial. if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval, we will be unable to commercialize our drug candidates. the time required to complete clinical trials and to satisfy the fda and other countries' regulatory review processes is uncertain and typically takes many years. our analysis of data obtained from nonclinical and clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. we also may encounter unanticipated delays or increased costs due to government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in governmental policy during the period of drug development, clinical trials and governmental regulatory review. we may seek a fast track and/or breakthrough therapy designation for some of our drug candidates. drug candidates that receive one or both of these designations may be eligible for, among other things, a priority regulatory review. each of these designations is within the discretion of the fda. accordingly, even if we believe one of our drug candidates meets the criteria for fast track and/or breakthrough therapy designation, the fda may disagree and instead determine not to make such designation. the receipt of one or both of these designations for a drug candidate does not guarantee a faster development process, review or approval compared to drugs considered for approval under conventional fda procedures and does not assure ultimate approval by the fda. in addition, even if one or more of our drugs or drug candidates qualifies for fast track and/or breakthrough therapy designation, the fda may later decide to withdraw such designation if it determines that the drug or drug candidate no longer meets the conditions for qualification. any failure to obtain regulatory approvals for a drug candidate would prevent us from commercializing that drug candidate. any delay in obtaining required regulatory approvals could materially adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize a drug candidate. furthermore, any regulatory approval to market a drug may be subject to limitations that we do not expect on the indicated uses for which we may market the drug. any such limitations could reduce the size of the market for the drug. we also are subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement. non-u.s. jurisdictions have different approval procedures than those required by the fda, and these jurisdictions may impose additional testing requirements for our drug candidates. the foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with the fda approval process described above, as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of foreign requirements. approval by the fda does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities outside the united states and approval by a foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by the fda. in addition, although the fda may accept data from clinical trials conducted outside the united states, acceptance of this data is subject to conditions imposed by the fda. for example, the clinical trial must be well designed and conducted and performed by qualified investigators in accordance with ethical principles. the trial population also must adequately represent the u.s. population, and the data must be applicable to the u.s. population and u.s. medical practice in ways that the fda deems clinically meaningful. in addition, while these clinical trials are subject to the applicable local laws, fda acceptance of the data will depend on its determination that the trials also complied with all applicable u.s. laws and regulations. if the fda does not accept the data from any trial that we conduct outside the united states, it would likely result in the need for additional trials, which would be costly and time-consuming and delay or permanently halt our development of the applicable drug candidate. 30 if clinical trials are prolonged or delayed, our development timelines for the affected development program could be extended, our costs to develop the drug candidate could increase and the competitive position of the drug candidate could be adversely affected. we cannot predict whether or not we will encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause us or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend clinical trials, or delay the analysis of data from our completed or ongoing clinical trials. among the factors that could delay our development programs are: ongoing discussions with the fda or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials and the number of clinical trials we must conduct; delays in enrolling volunteers or patients into clinical trials, including as a result of low numbers of patients that meet the eligibility criteria for the trial; a lower than anticipated retention rate of volunteers or patients in clinical trials; the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive results, unforeseen complications in testing or clinical investigator error; inadequate supply or deficient quality of drug candidate materials or other materials necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials; unfavorable fda or foreign regulatory authority inspection and review of a manufacturing facility that supplied clinical trial materials or its relevant manufacturing records or a clinical trial site or records of any clinical or preclinical investigation; unfavorable scientific results from clinical trials; serious and unexpected drug-related side-effects experienced by participants in our clinical trials or by participants in clinical trials being conducted by our competitors to evaluate drug candidates with similar mechanisms of action or structures to drug candidates that we are developing; favorable results in testing of our competitors' drug candidates, or fda or foreign regulatory authority approval of our competitors' drug candidates; or action by the fda or a foreign regulatory authority to place a clinical hold or partial clinical hold on a trial or compound or deeming the clinical trial conduct as problematic. our ability to enroll patients in our clinical trials in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis is subject to a number of factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the number of other clinical trials ongoing and competing for patients in the same indication and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. in addition, patients may drop out of our clinical trials or may be lost to follow-up medical evaluation after treatment ends, and this could impair the validity or statistical significance of the trials. delays in patient enrollment or unforeseen drop-out rates may result in increased costs and longer development times. we, our collaborators, the fda or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a drug candidate at any time if we or they believe the healthy volunteers or patients participating in such clinical trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. any such suspension could materially adversely affect the development of a particular drug candidate and our business. if our processes and systems are not compliant with regulatory requirements, we could be subject to restrictions on marketing our products or could be delayed in submitting regulatory filings seeking approvals for our drug candidates. we have a number of regulated processes and systems that are required to obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our drugs and drug candidates. these processes and systems are subject to continual review and periodic inspection by the fda and other regulatory bodies. in addition, the clinical research organizations and other third parties that we work with in our non-clinical studies and clinical trials and our oversight of such parties are subject to similar reviews and periodic inspection by the fda and other regulatory bodies. if compliance issues are identified at any point in the development and approval process, we may experience delays in filing for regulatory approval for our drug candidates, or delays in obtaining regulatory approval after filing. any later discovery of previously unknown problems or safety issues with approved drugs or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in restrictions on such drugs or 31 manufacturing processes, withdrawal of drugs from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal penalties or a refusal by the fda and/or other regulatory bodies to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we are a party to agreements that transfer responsibility for complying with specified regulatory requirements, such as filing and maintenance of marketing authorizations and safety reporting or compliance with manufacturing requirements, to our collaborators and third-party manufacturers. if our collaborators or third-party manufacturers do not fulfill these regulatory obligations, any drugs for which we or they obtain approval may be subject to later restrictions on manufacturing or sale, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. risks related to collaborations and other business development activities our ability to execute on our long-term strategy depends in part on our ability to acquire rights to additional drugs, drug candidates and other technologies that have the potential to add to our pipeline or provide us with new commercial opportunities. in order to achieve our long-term business objectives, our strategy is to supplement our internal pipeline by acquiring rights to additional drugs, drug candidates and other technologies that have the potential to provide us with new commercial opportunities, including in the field of treating cf and in therapeutic areas outside of cf. we may not be able to acquire, in-license or otherwise obtain rights to additional drugs, drug candidates or other technologies on acceptable terms or at all. we have faced and will continue to face significant competition for these types of drugs, drug candidates and other technologies from a variety of other companies with interests in the specialty pharmaceutical marketplace, many of which have significantly more financial resources and experience in business development activities than we have. in addition, non-profit organizations may be willing to provide capital to the companies that control additional drugs, drug candidates or technologies, which may provide incentives for companies to advance these drugs, drug candidates or technologies independently. because of these competitive pressures, the cost of acquiring, in-licensing or otherwise obtaining rights to such drugs, drug candidates or other technologies has grown dramatically in recent years and may be at levels that we cannot afford or that we believe are not justified by market potential. this competition is most intense for approved drugs and late-stage drug candidates, which have the lowest risk and would have the most immediate effect on our financial performance. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of potential acquisitions or licenses to businesses, drugs, drug candidates and other technologies, and the integration following any such acquisition or license may disrupt our business and management. we may acquire a business or the rights to drugs, drug candidates or other technologies. in recent years we have entered into both acquisition and collaboration arrangements, including our acquisition of vx-561 from concert, our agreement with crispr to collaborate on the discovery and development of potential new treatments aimed at the underlying genetic causes of human diseases using crispr-cas9 gene editing technology and our agreement with moderna pursuant to which we are seeking to identify and develop mrna therapeutics for the treatment of cf. with respect to each of these transactions and any additional acquisition of a business or rights to drugs, drug candidates or other technologies, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of such transaction, each of which involves numerous risks. these risks include: failure to successfully further develop the acquired or licensed drugs or technology or to achieve strategic objectives, including successfully developing and commercializing the drugs, drug candidates or technologies that we acquire or license; inadequate or unfavorable data from clinical trials evaluating the acquired or licensed drug or drug candidates; entry into markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience or where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management and employees from other opportunities and challenges; potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired company, or acquired or licensed product or technology, including but not limited to, problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges with respect to intellectual property, product quality, safety, accounting practices, employee, customer or third party relations and other known and unknown liabilities; liability for activities of the acquired company or licensor before the acquisition or license, including intellectual property infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities; 32 exposure to litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risk as a result of an acquisition or license, including but not limited to, claims from terminated employees, customers, former equity holders or other third-parties; difficulty in integrating the drugs, drug candidates, technologies, business operations and personnel of an acquired asset or company, including the integration of vx-561 into our development programs for vx-445 and vx-659; and difficulties in the integration of the acquired company's departments, systems, including accounting, human resource and other administrative systems, technologies, books and records, and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards, controls, including internal control over financial reporting required by the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and related procedures and policies. acquisitions and licensing arrangements are inherently risky, and ultimately, if we do not complete an announced acquisition or license transaction or integrate an acquired business, or an acquired or licensed drug, drug candidate or other technology successfully and in a timely manner, we may not realize the benefits of the acquisition or license to the extent anticipated and the perception of the effectiveness of our management team and our company may suffer in the marketplace. additionally, we may later incur impairment charges related to assets acquired in any such transaction. for example, we entered into a strategic collaboration and license agreement with parion to develop enac inhibitors in 2015 and incurred an impairment charge related to this collaboration in the third quarter of 2017. in addition, even if we achieve the long-term benefits associated with strategic transactions, our expenses and short-term costs may increase materially and adversely affect our liquidity and short-term net income (loss). future licenses or acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, the creation of contingent liabilities, impairment expenses related to goodwill, and impairment or amortization expenses related to other intangible assets, which could harm our financial condition. we face risks in connection with existing and future collaborations with respect to the development, manufacture and commercialization of our products and drug candidates. the risks that we face in connection with our current collaborations, including with crispr, janssen, merck kgaa, moderna and parion, and any future collaborations, include the following: our collaborators may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts or may have insufficient resources to effectively develop our drug candidates. the ability of some of our products and drug candidates to reach their potential could be limited if collaborators decrease or fail to increase development or commercialization efforts related to those products or drug candidates. our collaboration agreements provide our collaborators with a level of discretion in determining the amount and timing of efforts and resources that they will apply to these collaborations. any future collaboration agreements may have the effect of limiting the areas of research and development that we may pursue, either alone or in collaboration with third parties. collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, drugs that are similar to or competitive with the drugs or drug candidates that are the subject of their collaborations with us. disagreements with collaborators, including disagreements over proprietary rights, contract interpretation or the preferred course of development, might cause delays or termination of the research, development or commercialization of drug candidates, might lead to additional responsibilities for us with respect to drug candidates, or might result in litigation or arbitration. any such disagreements would divert management attention and resources and be time-consuming and expensive. collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our intellectual property or proprietary information or expose us to potential litigation. collaborators may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may expose us to litigation and potential liability. investigations and/or compliance or enforcement actions against a collaborator, which may expose us to indirect liability as a result of our partnership with such collaborator. our collaboration agreements are subject to termination under various circumstances. 33 additionally, if a collaborator were to be involved in a business combination, it might deemphasize or terminate the development or commercialization of any drug candidate licensed to it by us. if one of our collaborators terminates its agreement with us, we may find it more difficult to attract new collaborators and our perception in the business and financial communities could be harmed. we may not be able to attract collaborators or external funding for the development and commercialization of certain of our drug candidates. as part of our ongoing strategy, we may seek additional collaborative arrangements or external funding for certain of our development programs and/or seek to expand existing collaborations to cover additional commercialization and/or development activities. we have a number of research programs and early-stage clinical development programs, some of which are being developed in collaboration with a third party. for example, in january 2017, we granted merck kgaa an exclusive worldwide license to research, develop and commercialize four of our oncology research and development programs. at any time, we may determine that in order to continue development of a drug candidate or program or successfully commercialize a drug we need to identify a collaborator or amend or expand an existing collaboration. whether we reach a definitive agreement for a collaboration will depend, among other things, upon our assessment of the collaborator's resources and expertise, the terms and conditions of the proposed collaboration and the proposed collaborator's evaluation of a number of factors. those factors may include the design or results of clinical trials, the likelihood of approval by the fda or similar regulatory authorities outside the united states, the potential market for the subject drug candidate, the costs and complexities of manufacturing and delivering such drug candidate to patients, the potential of competing products, the existence of uncertainty with respect to our ownership of the applicable intellectual property, which can exist if there is a challenge to such ownership without regard to the merits of the challenge, and industry and market conditions generally. potentially, and depending on the circumstances, we may desire that a collaborator either agree to fund portions of a drug development program led by us, or agree to provide all of the funding and directly lead the development and commercialization of a program. no assurance can be given that any efforts we make to seek additional collaborative arrangements will be successfully completed on a timely basis or at all. if we elect to fund and undertake development or commercialization activities on our own, we may need to obtain additional expertise and additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. if we are unable to enter into acceptable collaborative relationships, one or more of our development programs could be delayed or terminated and the possibility of our receiving a return on our investment in the program could be impaired. risks related to third-party manufacturing and reliance on third parties we depend on third-party manufacturers to manufacture our products and the materials we require for our clinical trials. we may not be able to maintain these relationships and could experience supply disruptions outside of our control. we rely on a worldwide network of third-party manufacturers to manufacture our drugs for commercial use and our drug candidates for clinical trials. as a result of our reliance on these third-party manufacturers and suppliers, we could be subject to significant supply disruptions outside of our control. our supply chain for sourcing raw materials and manufacturing drug product ready for distribution is a multi-step international endeavor. third-party contract manufacturers, including some in china, perform different parts of our manufacturing process. contract manufacturers may supply us with raw materials, convert these raw materials into drug substance and/or convert the drug substance into final dosage form. establishing and managing this global supply chain requires a significant financial commitment and the creation and maintenance of numerous third-party contractual relationships. although we attempt to manage the business relationships with companies in our supply chain, we do not have control over their operations. supply disruptions may result from a number of factors, including shortages in product raw materials, labor or technical difficulties, regulatory inspections or restrictions, shipping or customs delays or any other performance failure by any third-party manufacturer on which we rely. any supply disruptions could disrupt sales of our products and/or the timing of our clinical trials. we require a supply of ivacaftor, lumacaftor and tezacaftor for commercial sale (as kalydeco, orkambi and/or symdeko). we also require a supply of our drug candidates for use in our clinical trials. while we have developed some internal capabilities, a majority of the manufacturing steps needed to produce our drug candidates and drug products are performed through a third-party manufacturing network. our supply chain includes a single-source manufacturer for (i) one step in the ivacaftor manufacturing process, (ii) the manufacture of the tablets of orkambi that is used for patients with cf six to eleven years of age and (iii) a pre-formulation step and the manufacture of the tablets for our commercial supply of symdeko. as a result, if we or our third-party manufacturers become unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing product on our behalf and we are not able to promptly identify another manufacturer, we could experience a disruption in the commercial supply of our then-marketed medicines, which would have a significant effect on patients, our business and our product revenues. similarly, a disruption in the clinical supply of drug products could delay the completion of clinical trials 34 and affect timelines for regulatory filings. there can be no assurance that we will be able to establish and maintain secondary manufacturers for all of our drug candidates and drug products on a timely basis or at all. in the course of providing its services, a contract manufacturer may develop process technology related to the manufacture of our products or drug candidates that the manufacturer owns, either independently or jointly with us. this would increase our reliance on that manufacturer or require us to obtain a license from that manufacturer in order to have our products or drug candidates manufactured by other suppliers utilizing the same process. we rely on third parties to conduct certain pre-clinical work and clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such studies and/or trials or failing to satisfy regulatory requirements. we rely on third parties such as contract research organizations to help manage certain pre-clinical work and our clinical trials and on medical institutions, clinical investigators and clinical research organizations such as the therapeutic development network, which is primarily funded by the cfft, to assist in the design and review of, and to conduct our clinical trials, including enrolling qualified patients. our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities but does not relieve us of our responsibilities. for example, we remain responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the clinical trial. moreover, the fda requires us to comply with standards, commonly referred to as good laboratory practices and good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of pre-clinical and clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. if these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be required to replace them. although we believe that there are a number of other third-party contractors we could engage to continue these activities, it may result in a delay of the affected clinical trial or drug development program. if clinical trials are not conducted in accordance with our contractual expectations or regulatory requirements, action by regulatory authorities might significantly and adversely affect the conduct or progress of these clinical trials or in specific circumstances might result in a requirement that a clinical trial be redone. accordingly, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize our drug candidates could be delayed. risks related to intellectual property if our patents do not protect our drugs or our drugs infringe third-party patents, we could be subject to litigation which could result in injunctions preventing us from selling our products or substantial liabilities. we have numerous issued patents and pending patent applications in the united states, as well as counterparts in other countries. our success will depend, in significant part, on our ability to obtain and defend u.s. and foreign patents covering our drugs, their uses and our processes, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. we cannot be certain that any patents will issue from our pending patent applications or, even if patents issue or have issued, that the issued claims will provide us with adequate protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially valuable. due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents, our ability to obtain, maintain and enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. recent patent reform legislation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents in the u.s. the leahy-smith america invents act, or the leahy-smith act, includes a number of significant changes to united states patent law. these include provisions that affect the way patent applications are prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. the united states patent office developed new regulations and procedures to govern administration of the leahy-smith act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the leahy-smith act, and in particular, the first to file provisions, became effective in march 2013. the first to file provisions limit the rights of an inventor who is the first to invent an invention but is not the first to file an application claiming that invention. u.s. and foreign patent applications typically are maintained in confidence for a period of time after they initially are filed with the applicable patent office. consequently, we cannot be certain that we were the first to invent, or the first to file patent applications on, our products or drug candidates or their use. if a third party also has filed a u.s. patent application relating to our drugs or drug candidates, their uses, or a similar invention, we may have to participate in legal or administrative proceedings to determine priority of invention. for applications governed by the lahey-smith act, if a third-party has an earlier filed u.s. patent application relating to our drugs or drug candidates, their uses, or a similar invention, we may be unable to obtain an issued patent from our application. 35 the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its inventorship, scope, validity or enforceability. our patents may be challenged by third parties, resulting in the patent being deemed invalid, unenforceable or narrowed in scope, or the third party may circumvent any such issued patents. also, our pending patent applications may not issue, and we may not receive any additional patents. our patents might not contain claims that are sufficiently broad to prevent others from utilizing our technologies. for instance, the issued patents relating to our drugs or drug candidates may be limited to a particular molecule or molecules and may not cover similar molecules that have similar clinical properties. consequently, our competitors may independently develop competing products that do not infringe our patents or other intellectual property. in addition, if the breadth or strength of protection provided by our patents and patent applications is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to license, develop or commercialize current or future products. the laws of many foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the united states and many companies in our segment of the pharmaceutical industry have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. if we encounter such difficulties in protecting or are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, our business could be substantially harmed. because of the extensive time required for the discovery, development, testing and regulatory review of drug candidates, it is possible that, a patent may expire before a drug candidate can be commercialized, or a patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization of such drug candidate resulting in a minimal, if any, period of patent exclusivity. to the extent our drug candidates are not commercialized significantly ahead of the expiration date of any applicable patent, or to the extent we have no patent protection on such drug candidates, then, to the extent available we would rely on other forms of exclusivity, such as regulatory exclusivity provided by the fdca and its counterpart agencies in various jurisdictions, and/or orphan drug exclusivity. uncertainty over intellectual property in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry has been the source of litigation and other disputes, which is inherently costly and unpredictable. there is considerable uncertainty within our industry about the validity, scope and enforceability of many issued patents in the united states and elsewhere in the world, and, to date, the law and practice remains in substantial flux both in the agencies that grant patents and in the courts. we cannot currently determine the ultimate scope and validity of patents which may be granted to third parties in the future or which patents might be asserted as being infringed by the manufacture, use and sale of our products. there has been, and we expect that there may continue to be, significant litigation in the industry regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. litigation, arbitrations, administrative proceedings and other legal actions with private parties and governmental authorities concerning patents and other intellectual property rights may be protracted, expensive and distracting to management. competitors may sue us as a way of delaying the introduction of our drugs or to remove our drugs from the market. any litigation, including litigation related to abbreviated new drug applications, or anda, litigation related to 505(b)(2) applications, interference proceedings to determine priority of inventions, derivations proceedings, inter partes review, oppositions to patents in foreign countries, litigation against our collaborators or similar actions, may be costly and time consuming and could harm our business. we expect that litigation may be necessary in some instances to determine the validity and scope of certain of our proprietary rights. litigation may be necessary in other instances to determine the validity, scope or non-infringement of certain patent rights claimed by third parties to be pertinent to the manufacture, use or sale of our products. ultimately, the outcome of such litigation could adversely affect the validity and scope of our patent or other proprietary rights, hinder our ability to manufacture and market our products, or result in the assessment of significant monetary damages against us that may exceed amounts, if any, accrued in our financial statements. to the extent that valid present or future third-party patents or other intellectual property rights cover our drugs, drug candidates or technologies, we or our strategic collaborators may seek licenses or other agreements from the holders of such rights in order to avoid or settle legal claims. such licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, which may hinder our ability to, or prevent us from being able to, manufacture and market our drugs. payments under any licenses that we are able to obtain would reduce our profits derived from the covered products. we may be subject to claims by third parties asserting that our employees or we have misappropriated their intellectual property, or claiming ownership of what we regard as our own intellectual property. many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. although we try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have used or 36 disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of any such employee's former employer. litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. in addition, while it is our policy to require our employees and contractors who may be involved in the development of intellectual property to execute agreements assigning such intellectual property to us, we may be unsuccessful in executing such an agreement with each party who in fact develops intellectual property that we regard as our own. our and their assignment agreements may not be self-executing or may be breached, and we may be forced to bring claims against third parties, or defend claims they may bring against us, to determine the ownership of what we regard as our intellectual property. if we fail in prosecuting or defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. even if we are successful in prosecuting or defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. risks related to our operations risks associated with operating in foreign countries could materially adversely affect our business. we have expanded our international operations over the past several years in order to market orkambi and kalydeco and expand our research and development capabilities. new laws and industry codes in the e.u. and elsewhere have expanded transparency requirements regarding payments and transfers of value as well as patient-level clinical trial data. new laws in the e.u., also have expanded protections related to personal data and provided for increased sanctions for violations. collectively, our expansion and these new requirements are adding to our compliance costs and expose us to potential sanctions for failing to meet the enhanced safeguards and reporting demands in these jurisdictions. in addition, a significant portion of our commercial supply chain, including sourcing of raw materials and manufacturing, is located in china and the e.u. consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to risks related to operating in foreign countries. risks associated with conducting operations in foreign countries include: differing regulatory requirements for drug approvals and regulation of approved drugs in foreign countries; varying reimbursement regimes and difficulties or the inability to obtain reimbursement for our products in a timely manner; differing patient treatment infrastructures, particularly since our business is focused on the treatment of rare diseases that are typically prescribed by specialist physicians; collectibility of accounts receivable; changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements, the risks of which appear to have increased in the current political environment; economic weakness, including recession and inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; differing levels of enforcement and/or recognition of contractual and intellectual property rights; complying with local laws and regulations, which are interpreted and enforced differently across jurisdictions and which can change significantly over time; foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes; foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in reduced revenues or increased operating expenses, and other obligations incident to doing business or operating in another country; workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the united states; import and export licensing requirements, tariffs, and other trade and travel restrictions; production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism. 37 our revenues are subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations due to the global nature of our operations. although we have foreign currency forward contracts to hedge forecasted product revenues denominated in foreign currencies, our efforts to reduce currency exchange losses may not be successful. as a result, currency fluctuations among our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar, and the currencies in which we do business will affect our operating results, often in unpredictable ways. in addition, our international operations are subject to regulation under u.s. law. for example, the foreign corrupt practices act prohibits u.s. companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad. in many countries, the health care professionals we regularly interact with may meet the definition of a foreign government official for purposes of the foreign corrupt practices act. we also are subject to import/export control laws. failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including the possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls, seizures, withdrawal of an approved product from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions, the prosecution of executives overseeing our international operations and corresponding bad publicity and negative perception of our company in foreign countries. if we fail to manage our operations effectively, our business may suffer. we have expanded and are continuing to expand our global operations and capabilities, which has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational, research and development and financial infrastructure. to effectively manage our business, we need to: implement and clearly communicate our corporate-wide strategies; enhance our operational and financial infrastructure, including our controls over records and information; enhance our operational, financial and management processes, including our cross-functional decision-making processes and our budget prioritization systems; train and manage our global employee base; transition from a u.s.-centric company into an organization capable of developing and commercializing multiple drug candidates in international markets; and enhance our compliance and legal resources. risk relating to the referendum of the united kingdom's membership of the european union. our european headquarters and european research facility are located in the united kingdom, and a significant portion of our ex-u.s. net product revenues are derived from sales in the united kingdom. in june 2016, the united kingdom, or the u.k., held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the e.u., commonly referred to as brexit. the u.k. government provided official notice of withdrawal from the e.u. in the first half of 2017, and is currently negotiating the terms of the u.k's withdrawal. the withdrawal could, among other outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the u.k. and the e.u., undermine bilateral cooperation in key policy areas and significantly disrupt trade between the u.k. and the e.u. in addition, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the u.k. determines which e.u. laws to replace or replicate. given the lack of comparable precedent, it is unclear what financial, trade, regulatory and legal implications the withdrawal of the u.k. from the e.u. would have and how such withdrawal would affect us. the announcement of brexit caused significant volatility in global stock markets and currency exchange rate fluctuations that resulted in the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies in which we conduct business. the withdrawal of the u.k. from the e.u. may also create global economic uncertainty, which may cause third-party payors, including governmental organizations, to closely monitor their costs and reduce their spending budgets. any of these effects of brexit, among others, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. our business has a substantial risk of product liability claims and other litigation liability. if we do not obtain appropriate levels of insurance, any potential claims could adversely affect our business. we are or may be involved in various legal proceedings, including securities class action lawsuits and claims related to product liability, intellectual property and breach of contract. such proceedings may involve claims for, or the possibility of, fines and penalties involving substantial amounts of money or other relief, including but not limited to civil or criminal fines and penalties. if any of these legal proceedings were to result in an adverse outcome, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. 38 with respect to product liability and clinical trial risks, in the ordinary course of business we are subject to liability claims and lawsuits, including potential class actions, alleging that our products or drug candidates have caused, or could cause, serious adverse events or other injury. we have product liability insurance and clinical trial insurance in amounts that we believe are adequate to cover this risk. however, our insurance may not provide adequate coverage against all potential liabilities. if a claim is brought against us, we might be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as pay uncovered damage awards resulting from a claim brought successfully against us and these damages could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. furthermore, whether or not we are ultimately successful in defending any such claims, we might be required to direct significant financial and managerial resources to such defense and adverse publicity is likely to result. a breakdown or breach of our information technology systems could subject us to liability or interrupt the operation of our business. we maintain and rely extensively on information technology systems and network infrastructures for the effective operation of our business. in the course of our business, we collect, store and transmit confidential information (including personal information and intellectual property), and it is critical that we do so in a secure manner to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information. the size and complexity of our information technology and information security systems makes such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches. a disruption, infiltration or failure of our information technology systems or any of our data centers as a result of software or hardware malfunctions, computer viruses, cyber attacks, employee theft or misuse, power disruptions, natural disasters, floods or accidents could cause breaches of data security and loss of critical data, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business and subject us to both private and governmental causes of action. while we have implemented security measures in an attempt to minimize these risks to our data and information technology systems and have adopted a business continuity plan to deal with a disruption to our information technology systems, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business. if we fail to attract and retain skilled employees, our business could be materially harmed. because our drug discovery and development activities are highly technical in nature, we require the services of highly qualified and trained scientists who have the skills necessary to conduct these activities. in addition, we need to attract and retain employees with experience in marketing and commercialization of medicines. we face intense competition for our personnel from our competitors and other companies throughout our industry. we also experience competition for the hiring of scientific and clinical personnel from universities and research institutions. moreover, the growth of local biotechnology companies and the expansion of major pharmaceutical companies into the boston area have increased competition for the available pool of skilled employees, especially in technical fields, and the high cost of living in massachusetts makes it difficult to attract employees from other parts of the country to massachusetts. in addition, the available pool of skilled employees would be further reduced if immigration laws change in a manner that increases restrictions on immigration. our ability to commercialize our products, and achieve our research and development objectives, depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands. if we are unable to hire and retain qualified personnel, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. the loss of the services of key employees or the failure to effectively integrate key employees could negatively affect our business. our future success will depend in large part on our ability to retain the services of our key scientific and management personnel and to integrate new scientific and management personnel into our business. a loss of key personnel or a failure to properly integrate new personnel could be disruptive. we have entered into employment agreements with some executives and provide compensation-related benefits to all of our key employees that vest over time and therefore induce them to remain with us. however, the employment agreements can be terminated by the executive on relatively short notice. the value to employees of stock-related benefits that vest over time such as options, restricted stock and restricted stock units is significantly affected by movements in our stock price, and may at any point in time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. a failure to retain, as well as hire, train and effectively integrate into our organization a sufficient number of qualified scientists, professionals, sales personnel and senior management would negatively affect our business. if we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected. our research and development efforts involve the regulated use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various controlled and radioactive compounds. although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials 39 comply with the standards prescribed by state, federal and foreign regulations, the risk of loss of, or accidental contamination or injury from, these materials cannot be eliminated. if an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. we also are subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. although we maintain workers' compensation insurance to cover us for costs we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. we maintain insurance to cover pollution conditions or other extraordinary or unanticipated events relating to our use and disposal of hazardous materials that we believe is appropriate based on the small amount of hazardous materials we generate. additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. we may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations. if our facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, our operations would be seriously harmed. most of our operations, including our research and development activities, are conducted in a limited number of facilities. if any of our major facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, due to a earthquake, severe storms, fire or similar event, our operations could be seriously harmed. for example, our corporate headquarters, as well as additional leased space that we use for certain logistical and laboratory operations and manufacturing, are located in a flood zone along the massachusetts coast. we have adopted a business continuity plan to address most crises. however, if we are unable to fully implement our disaster recovery plans, we may experience delays in recovery of data and/or an inability to perform vital corporate functions, which could result in a significant disruption in our research, development, manufacturing and/or commercial activities, the loss or critical data and/or large expenses to repair or replace the facility, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. risks related to holding our common stock our stock price may fluctuate. market prices for securities of companies such as ours are highly volatile. from january 1, 2017 to december 31, 2017, our common stock traded between $73.34 and $167.86 per share. the market for our stock, like that of other companies in the biotechnology industry, has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. the future market price of our securities could be significantly and adversely affected by factors such as: the information contained in our quarterly earnings releases, including our net product revenues and operating expenses for completed periods and guidance regarding future periods; announcements of fda actions with respect to our drugs or our competitors' drugs, or regulatory filings for our drug candidates or those of our competitors, or announcements of interim or final results of clinical trials or nonclinical studies relating to our drugs, drug candidates or those of our competitors; prescription data and other information disclosed by third parties regarding our business or products; technological innovations or the introduction of new drugs by our competitors; government regulatory action; public concern as to the safety of drugs developed by us or our competitors; developments in patent or other intellectual property rights or announcements relating to these matters; developments in domestic and international governmental policy or regulation, for example, relating to intellectual property rights; developments relating specifically to other companies and market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks or stocks in general; business development, capital structuring or financing activities; and general worldwide or national economic, political and capital market conditions. following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, stockholder derivative lawsuits and securities class action litigation are common. such litigation, if instituted against us or our officers and directors, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. 40 our indebtedness could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, and the terms of our credit agreement impose restrictions on our business, reducing our operational flexibility and creating default risks. in october 2016, we entered into a credit agreement providing for a $500 million revolving facility, $300 million of which was drawn at closing and subsequently paid off in february 2017. the credit agreement provides that, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, we may request that the borrowing capacity under the credit agreement be increased by an additional $300.0 million. all outstanding borrowings under the credit agreement mature on october 13, 2021. our indebtedness could have important consequences to our business, including increasing our vulnerability to general adverse financial, business, economic and industry conditions, as well as other factors that are beyond our control. the credit agreement requires that we comply with certain financial covenants, including (i) a consolidated leverage ratio covenant and (ii) a consolidated ebitda covenant, in each case to be measured on a quarterly basis. further, the credit agreement includes negative covenants, subject to exceptions, restricting or limiting our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, grant liens, engage in certain investment, acquisition and disposition transactions, pay dividends, repurchase capital stock and enter into transactions with affiliates. as a result, we may be restricted from engaging in business activities that may otherwise improve our business. failure to comply with the covenants could result in an event of default that could trigger acceleration of our indebtedness, which would require us to repay all amounts owing under the credit agreement and/or our capital leases and could have a material adverse effect on our business. additionally, our obligations under the credit agreement are unconditionally guaranteed by certain of our domestic subsidiaries. all obligations under the credit agreement, and the guarantees of those obligations, are secured by substantially all of our assets and the assets of all guarantors (excluding intellectual property, owned and leased real property and certain other excluded property), including the pledge of all or a portion of the equity interests of certain of our subsidiaries. if we fail to satisfy our obligations under the credit agreement or are unable to obtain sufficient funds to make payments, the lenders could foreclose on our pledged collateral. our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuation. our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past, and we expect that they will continue to do so in the future. our revenues are primarily dependent on the level of net product revenues from sales of our cf medicines. our total net product revenues could vary on a quarterly basis based on, among other factors, the timing of orders from our significant customers. additional factors that have caused quarterly fluctuations to our operating results in recent years include variable amounts of revenues, impairment charges, charges for excess and obsolete inventories, changes in the fair value of derivative instruments and the consolidation or deconsolidation of variable interest entities. our revenues also are subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations due to the global nature of our operations. although we have foreign currency forward contracts to hedge forecasted product revenues denominated in foreign currencies, our efforts to reduce currency exchange losses may not be successful. as a result, currency fluctuations among our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar, and the currencies in which we do business may affect our operating results, often in unpredictable ways. our quarterly results also could be materially affected by significant charges, which may or may not be similar to charges we have experienced in the past. most of our operating expenses relate to our research and development activities, do not vary directly with the amount of revenues and are difficult to adjust in the short term. as a result, if revenues in a particular quarter are below expectations, we are unlikely to reduce operating expenses proportionately for that quarter. these examples are only illustrative and other risks, including those discussed in these risk factors, could also cause fluctuations in our reported financial results. our operating results during any one period do not necessarily suggest the results of future periods. we expect that results from our clinical development activities and the clinical development activities of our competitors will continue to be released periodically, and may result in significant volatility in the price of our common stock. any new information regarding our products and drug candidates or competitive products or potentially competitive drug candidates can substantially affect investors' perceptions regarding our future prospects. we, our collaborators and our competitors periodically provide updates regarding drug development programs, typically through press releases, conference calls and presentations at medical conferences. these periodic updates often include interim or final results from clinical trials conducted by us or our competitors and/or information about our or our competitors' expectations regarding regulatory filings and submissions as well as future clinical development of our products or drug candidates, competitive products or potentially competitive drug candidates. the timing of the release of information by us regarding our drug development programs is often beyond our control and is influenced by the timing of receipt of data from our clinical trials and by the general preference among pharmaceutical companies to disclose clinical data during medical conferences. in addition, the information disclosed about our clinical trials, or our competitors' clinical trials, may be based on interim rather than final data that may involve interpretation difficulties and may in any event not accurately predict final results. 41 changes in tax laws, regulations and treaties could affect our future taxable income. a change in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation, of any country in which we operate could materially affect us if we generate taxable income in a future period. for example, on december 22, 2017, the united states enacted h.r.1., known as the tax cuts and jobs act. we currently do not expect h.r.1. to have a material impact on our financial statements as long as we maintain a valuation allowance on the majority of our net operating losses and other deferred tax assets, however we are still in the process of evaluating the new law and do not know the full effect it will have on our business, including our financial statements. we continue to assess the impact of various tax reform proposals and modifications to existing tax treaties in all jurisdictions where we have operations to determine the potential effect on our business and any assumptions we have made about our future taxable income. we cannot predict whether any specific proposals will be enacted, the terms of any such proposals or what effect, if any, such proposals would have on our business if they were to be enacted. we may need to raise additional capital that may not be available. we may need to raise additional capital in the future. any potential public offering, private placement or debt financing may or may not be similar to the transactions that we entered into in the past. any debt financing may be on terms that, among other things, include conversion features that could result in dilution to our then-existing security holders and restrict our ability to pay interest and dividends although we do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. additionally, our pledge of specified assets as collateral to secure our obligations under our credit agreement may limit our ability to obtain additional debt financing. any equity financings would result in dilution to our then-existing security holders. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be required to curtail significantly or discontinue one or more of our research, drug discovery or development programs, including clinical trials, incur significant cash exit costs, or attempt to obtain funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, drugs or drug candidates. based on many factors, including general economic conditions, additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. issuances of additional shares of our common stock could cause the price of our common stock to decline. as of december 31, 2017 , we had 253.3 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. as of december 31, 2017 , we also had outstanding options to purchase 9.8 million shares of common stock with a weighted-average exercise price of $91.57 per share. outstanding vested options are likely to be exercised if the market price of our common stock exceeds the applicable exercise price, and, in the future, we expect to issue additional options, restricted stock and restricted stock units to directors and employees. in addition, we may issue additional common stock or restricted securities in the future as part of financing activities or business development activities and any such issuances may have a dilutive effect on our then-existing shareholders. sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market, or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. the issuance of restricted common stock or common stock upon exercise of any outstanding options would be dilutive, and may cause the market price for a share of our common stock to decline. there can be no assurance that we will repurchase shares of common stock or that we will repurchase shares at favorable prices. our board of directors has authorized a share repurchase program of up to $500 million to repurchase shares of our common stock. our stock repurchases will depend upon, among other factors, our cash balances and potential future capital requirements, results of operations, financial condition and other factors that we may deem relevant. we can provide no assurance that we will repurchase stock at favorable prices, if at all. we have adopted anti-takeover provisions and are subject to massachusetts corporate laws that may frustrate any attempt to remove or replace our current management or effectuate a business combination involving vertex. our corporate charter and by-law provisions and massachusetts state laws may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change of control of vertex that might be beneficial to us or our security holders. although we recently amended our charter to eliminate staggered terms for our board of directors, our shareholders will not have the ability to vote for all members of the board of directors on an annual basis until 2020. our by-laws grant the directors a right to adjourn annual meetings of shareholders, and certain provisions of our by-laws may be amended only with an 80% shareholder vote. we may issue shares of any class or series of preferred stock in the future without shareholder approval and upon such terms as our board of directors may determine. the rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any class or series of preferred stock that may be issued in the 42 future. massachusetts state law prohibits us from engaging in specified business combinations, unless the combination is approved or consummated in a prescribed manner, and prohibits voting by any shareholder who acquires 20% or more of our voting stock without shareholder approval. as a result, shareholders or other parties may find it more difficult to remove or replace our current management. special note regarding forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k and, in particular, the description of our business set forth in item 1, the risk factors set forth in this item 1a and our management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations set forth in item 7 contain or incorporate a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding: our expectations regarding the amount of, timing of and trends with respect to our revenues, costs and expenses and other gains and losses, including those related to our cf net product revenues; our expectations regarding clinical trials, development timelines and regulatory authority filings and submissions for ivacaftor, lumacaftor, tezacaftor, vx-659, vx-445, vx-150, vx-128 and vx-210 and the maa for tezacaftor in combination with ivacaftor; our ability to obtain reimbursement for orkambi in ex-u.s. markets and our ability to otherwise successfully market orkambi, kalydeco, symdeko or any of our other drug candidates for which we obtain regulatory approval; our expectations regarding the timing and structure of clinical trials of our drugs and drug candidates, including ivacaftor, lumacaftor, tezacaftor, vx-659, vx-445, vx-150, vx-128 and vx-210, and the expected timing of our receipt of data from our ongoing and planned clinical trials; the data that will be generated by ongoing and planned clinical trials and the ability to use that data to advance compounds, continue development or support regulatory filings; our beliefs regarding the support provided by clinical trials and preclinical and nonclinical studies of our drug candidates for further investigation, clinical trials or potential use as a treatment; our plan to continue investing in our research and development programs and our strategy to develop our drug candidates, alone or with third party-collaborators; the establishment, development and maintenance of collaborative relationships; potential business development activities; potential fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; our ability to use our research programs to identify and develop new drug candidates to address serious diseases and significant unmet medical needs; and our liquidity and our expectations regarding the possibility of raising additional capital. any or all of our forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k may turn out to be wrong. they can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. many factors mentioned in this annual report on form 10-k will be important in determining future results. consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. actual future results may vary materially from expected results. we also provide a cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties under risk factors above in this item 1a. these are factors and uncertainties that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results. other factors and uncertainties besides those listed there could also adversely affect us. 43 without limiting the foregoing, the words believes, anticipates, plans, intends, expects and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. there are a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control, including the factors and uncertainties set forth under risk factors above in this item 1a. in addition, the forward-looking statements contained herein represent our estimate only as of the date of this filing and should not be relied upon as representing our estimate as of any subsequent date. while we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 67 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk as part of our investment portfolio, we own financial instruments that are sensitive to market risks. the investment portfolio is used to preserve our capital until it is required to fund operations, including our research and development activities. none of these market risk-sensitive instruments is held for trading purposes. we do not have derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. interest rate risk we invest our cash in a variety of financial instruments, principally securities issued by the u.s. government and its agencies, investment-grade corporate bonds and commercial paper, and money market funds. these investments are denominated in u.s. dollars. all of our interest-bearing securities are subject to interest rate risk and could decline in value if interest rates fluctuate. substantially all of our investment portfolio consists of marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to help ensure portfolio liquidity, and we have implemented guidelines limiting the term-to-maturity of our investment instruments. due to the conservative nature of these instruments, we do not believe that we have a material exposure to interest rate risk. if interest rates were to increase or decrease by 1%, the fair value of our investment portfolio would increase or decrease by an immaterial amount. in october 2016, we entered into a credit agreement. loans under the credit agreement bear interest, at our option, at either a base rate or a eurodollar rate, in each case plus an applicable margin. the applicable margin on base rate loans ranges from 0.75% to 1.50% and the applicable margin on eurodollar loans ranges from 1.75% to 2.50%, in each case, based on our consolidated leverage ratio (as defined in the credit agreement). we do not believe that changes in interest rates related to the credit agreement would have a material effect on our financial statements. as of december 31, 2017 , we had no principal or interest outstanding. a portion of our interest expense, net in 2018 will be dependent on whether, and to what extent, we reborrow amounts under the existing facility. foreign exchange market risk as a result of our foreign operations, we face exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the euro, swiss franc, british pound, australian dollar and canadian dollar against the u.s. dollar. the current exposures arise primarily from cash, accounts receivable, intercompany receivables and payables, payables and accruals and inventories. both positive and negative affects to our net revenues from international product sales from movements in foreign currency exchange rates are partially mitigated by the natural, opposite affect that foreign currency exchange rates have on our international operating costs and expenses. we have a foreign currency management program with the objective of reducing the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results and forecasted revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies. we currently have cash flow hedges for the euro, british pound and australian dollar related to forecasted product revenues that qualify for hedge accounting treatment under u.s. gaap. we do not seek hedge accounting treatment for our forward contracts related to monetary assets and liabilities that impact our operating results. as of december 31, 2017, we held foreign exchange forward contracts with notional amounts totaling $488.1 million. as of december 31, 2017, our outstanding foreign exchange forward contracts had a net fair value of $(15.2) million. 67 based on our foreign currency exchange rate exposures at december 31, 2017, a hypothetical 10% adverse fluctuation in exchange rates would decrease the fair value of our foreign exchange forward contracts that are designated as cash flow hedges by approximately $36.5 million at december 31, 2017. the resulting loss on these forward contracts would be offset by the gain on the underlying transactions and therefore would have minimal impact on future anticipated earnings and cash flows. similarly, adverse fluctuations in exchange rates that would decrease the fair value of our foreign exchange forward contracts that are not designated as hedge instruments would be offset by a positive impact of the underlying monetary assets and liabilities.risk factors 19 risk factors risk factors investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk, and you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k. if any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer, possibly materially. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. risks related to our business all of our product revenues and the vast majority of our total revenues are derived from sales of medicines for the treatment of cystic fibrosis. if we are unable to continue to increase revenues from sales of our cystic fibrosis medicines, our business would be materially harmed and the market price of our common stock would likely decline. our net product revenues and the vast majority of our total revenues are derived from the sale of cf medicines. symdeko/symkevi, orkambi and kalydeco net product revenues represented approximately 25% , 41% and 33% of our total revenues in the year ended december 31, 2018 , respectively. as a result, our future success is dependent on our ability to continue to increase revenues from sales of our cf medicines. in the near term, this will require us to increase cf net product revenues from our current medicines and in the longer term, this will require us to successfully develop, obtain approval for and commercialize at least one triple combination therapy that will allow us to treat f508del/min patients and to improve the treatment options available to patients with cf who are eligible for our current medicines. our concentrated source of revenues presents a number of risks to our business, including: that one or more competing therapies may successfully be developed as a treatment for patients with cf; that we may experience adverse developments with respect to development or commercialization of our cf medicines and/or cf drug candidates; and that reimbursement policies of payors and other third parties may make it difficult to obtain reimbursement or reduce the net price we receive for our products. if one or more of the above risks were to materialize, if we are otherwise unable to increase revenues from sales of our cf medicines or if we do not meet the expectations of investors or public equity market analysts, our business would be materially harmed and our stock price would likely decline. we are investing significant resources in the development of our next-generation cftr corrector compounds in triple combinations and if we are unable to show the safety and efficacy of these regimens, experience delays in doing so or are unable to successfully commercialize at least one of these medicines, our business would be materially harmed. we are investing significant resources in the development of our next-generation cftr corrector compounds, vx-659 and vx-445, which are currently being evaluated in phase 3 clinical development as part of separate triple combination treatment regimens for patients with cf. we believe that a significant portion of the long-term value attributed to our company by investors is based on the commercial potential of these triple combination therapies. while we believe, based on data, including interim data, from the ongoing vx-659 phase 3 clinical trials and the status of the ongoing vx-445 clinical trials, that we will be able to submit an nda to the fda for a triple combination regimen no later than mid-2019, there can be no assurances that the data will be sufficient to submit an nda on this timeline, or at all. clinical trial data are subject to differing interpretations and, even if we view data as sufficient to support the safety, effectiveness and/or approval of a triple combination regimen, regulatory authorities may disagree and may require additional data, may limit the scope of the approval or may deny approval altogether. furthermore, interim results of a clinical trial may differ materially from final results from such clinical trials. if the final data from our ongoing phase 3 clinical trials are not favorable, the fda and comparable foreign regulatory authorities may not approve these treatment regimens and/or we may be forced to delay or terminate the development of these treatment regimens, which would have an adverse effect on our business. even successfully completed large-scale clinical trials may not result in marketable medicines. if a triple combination fails to achieve its primary endpoint in clinical trials, if safety issues arise, or if the results from our clinical trials are otherwise inadequate to support regulatory approval of our triple combination therapies, commercialization of that combination regimen could be delayed or halted. 19 even if we gain marketing approval for one or more combination therapies containing a next-generation cftr corrector compound in a timely manner, we cannot be sure that such combination therapy will be commercially successful. in addition, since we expect that a significant portion of the patients for whom a triple combination treatment regimen would be indicated would also be eligible for our then-existing medicines, a portion of the revenues from our triple combination regimens will likely displace revenues from our then-marketed products, reducing the overall positive effect of the commercialization of our triple combination regimens on our total revenues. if the anticipated or actual timing of marketing approvals for these triple combination regimens, or the market acceptance of these triple combination regimens, if approved, including treatment reimbursement levels agreed to by third-party payors, do not meet the expectations of investors or public market analysts, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. we have experienced challenges commercializing products outside of the united states, and our future revenues will be dependent on our ability to obtain adequate reimbursement for our products. in most ex-u.s. markets, the pricing and reimbursement of therapeutic and other pharmaceutical products is subject to governmental control. given recent global economic pressures and geopolitical uncertainty, government authorities throughout the world are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of drug products. the reimbursement process in ex-u.s. markets can take a significant period of time and reimbursement decisions are made on a country-by-country basis. our medicines treat life-threatening conditions and address relatively small patient populations and our research and development programs are primarily focused on developing medicines to treat similar diseases. particular attention is being paid by payors, including government and private payors, to these types of medicines given the relative higher cost of these products as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products - and countries are increasingly refusing to reimburse costly medicines. as a result, we have recognized limited ex-u.s. net product revenues for orkambi in various countries outside the united states, including the united kingdom and france, both of which represent significant potential markets for orkambi. our future product revenues, including from orkambi, symkevi and our triple combination regimens, if approved, depend on, among other things, our ability to complete reimbursement discussions in ex-u.s. markets for our products. there is no assurance that coverage and reimbursement will be available outside of the united states and, even if it is available, whether the timing or the level of reimbursement will be sufficient to allow us to market our medicines. adverse pricing limitations or a delay in obtaining coverage and reimbursement would decrease our future net product revenues and harm our business. if our competitors bring drugs with superior product profiles to market, our drugs may not be competitive and our revenues could decline. a number of companies are seeking to identify and develop drug candidates for the treatment of cf, including abbvie, eloxx pharmaceuticals, proqr therapeutics, proteostasis therapeutics, translate bio, and several private companies. our competitors have research and development programs directed at identifying cftr potentiators, cftr correctors, enac inhibitors and drug candidates with other mechanisms of action or that utilize new therapeutic approaches that seek to address the underlying cause of cf. our success in rapidly developing and commercializing our cf products may increase the resources that our competitors allocate to the development of these potential treatments for cf. our competitors are exploring the development of drug candidates both as monotherapies and as part of combination regimens. if one or more competing therapies are successfully developed as a treatment for patients with cf, our products and our cf net product revenues could face competitive pressures. if one or more competing therapies prove to be superior to our then existing products and/or drug candidates for the treatment of cf, our business would be materially adversely affected. in addition, our business faces competition from major pharmaceutical companies, such as abbvie, bristol-myers squibb, gilead, johnson &amp; johnson, merck, novartis, pfizer, sanofi and roche, which possess substantially greater financial resources than we possess, and numerous smaller public and private companies, academic institutions, government agencies, public and private research organizations and charitable venture philanthropy organizations that conduct research, seek patent protection and/or establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and commercialization. as an example of how competition has affected our business in the past, in 2013 and 2014 we experienced a rapid decline in the number of patients being treated with incivek, a product we previously marketed for the treatment of hepatitis c virus infection, as a result of competition from a treatment regimen identified by a small biotechnology company and developed and commercialized by gilead. mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may result in even more resources being concentrated among a smaller number of our competitors. smaller and other early-stage companies also may prove to be 20 significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. these third parties compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to, or necessary for, our programs. our products and any drugs that we develop in the future may not be able to compete effectively with marketed drugs or new drugs that may be developed by competitors. the risk of competition is particularly important to our company because substantially all of our revenues as well as our most advanced drug candidates are related to the treatment of patients with cf. there are many other companies developing drugs for the same indications that we are pursuing. in order to compete successfully in these areas, we must demonstrate improved safety, efficacy and/or tolerability, ease of manufacturing, and gain and maintain market acceptance over competing drugs. if we discover safety issues with any of our products or if we fail to comply with continuing u.s. and applicable foreign regulations, commercialization efforts for the product could be negatively affected, the approved product could lose its approval or sales could be suspended, and our business could be materially harmed. our products are subject to continuing regulatory oversight, including the review of additional safety information. drugs are more widely used by patients once approval has been obtained and therefore side effects and other problems may be observed after approval that were not seen or anticipated, or were not as prevalent or severe, during pre-approval clinical trials or nonclinical studies. the subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a product could negatively affect commercial sales of the product, result in restrictions on the product or lead to the withdrawal of the product from the market. each of our commercial products and our triple combination treatment regimens contain ivacaftor or vx-561, a deuterated version of ivacaftor. as a result, if any of our products or drug candidates were to experience safety issues, our other commercial products as well as one or more of our drug candidates, may be adversely affected. the reporting of adverse safety events involving our products or public speculation about such events could cause our stock price to decline or experience periods of volatility. in addition, we and our third-party manufacturers must comply with cgmp and other applicable regulations governing the manufacturing and distribution of our products. regulatory authorities periodically inspect our drug manufacturing facilities, and those of our third-party manufacturers, to evaluate compliance with cgmp requirements. if we or our collaborators, or third-parties acting on our behalf, fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we or our collaborators may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals for specific products, product recalls and seizures, operating restrictions and/or criminal prosecutions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. if physicians and patients do not accept our drugs, or if patients do not remain on treatment or comply with the prescribed dosing regimen, our product revenues would be materially harmed in future periods. our drugs may not gain or maintain market acceptance among physicians and patients. effectively marketing our drugs and any of our drug candidates, if approved, requires substantial efforts, both prior to launch and after approval. physicians may elect not to prescribe our drugs, and patients may elect not to take them or may discontinue use of our drugs after initiation of treatment, for a variety of reasons including: prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; lack of reimbursement availability from third-party payors, including governmental entities; lower demonstrated efficacy, safety and/or tolerability compared to alternative treatment methods; lack of cost-effectiveness; a decision to wait for the approval of other therapies in development that have significant perceived advantages over our drug; convenience and ease of administration; other potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; and ineffective sales, marketing and/or distribution support. 21 if our drugs fail to achieve or maintain market acceptance, we may not be able to generate significant revenues in future periods. government and other third-party payors seek to contain costs of health care through legislative and other means. if they fail to provide coverage and adequate reimbursement rates for our products, our revenues will be harmed. our sales of products depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. third-party payors include government health programs such as medicare and medicaid in the united states and the national health care systems in many international markets, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. the trend in the health care industry is cost containment and efforts of third-party payors to contain or reduce health care costs may adversely affect our ability to establish or maintain appropriate prices for our products or any drugs that we may develop and commercialize. in most ex-u.s. markets, the pricing and reimbursement of therapeutic and other pharmaceutical products is subject to governmental control and such government authorities are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of drug products. in the united states, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement governmental controls that are similar to those that currently exist in europe. for example, the aca required manufacturers of medicare part d brand name drugs to provide discounts on those drugs to medicare part d beneficiaries during the coverage gap; increased the rebates paid by pharmaceutical companies to state medicaid programs on drugs covered by medicaid; and imposed an annual fee, which increases annually, on sales by branded pharmaceutical manufacturers. third-party payors throughout the world also have been attempting to control drug spending through various other actions. in reimbursement negotiations, many payers are demanding price discounts and limiting both the types and variety of drugs that they will cover if they are not able to secure them. as part of these negotiations, international government payers also are requiring companies to establish product cost-effectiveness as a condition of reimbursement. these cost-effectiveness reviews frequently are subjective, may not account for many of the benefits provided by innovative medicines, and have led to conclusions that certain medicines, including our products in certain jurisdictions, are not worth their price. as a result, certain countries have declined to reimburse some of our products. although not mandated in the united states, various organizations have started advocating for cost-effectiveness analyses in the united states as well. notably, if u.s. payors were to adopt such assessments and make corresponding (negative) coverage determinations, we could expect to see a decrease in our future net product revenues, which could harm our business. there is also an increase in laws, regulations, and activity related to drug pricing and drug pricing transparency. in the united states, various states, including nevada, maryland, louisiana, new york, california, and oregon, have passed legislation requiring companies to disclose significant amounts of information, including information relating to drug prices, drug price increases, and spending on research, development, and marketing. although it is not clear what states ultimately will do with the information collected, some laws were designed to obtain additional product discounts, and we likely will continue to see more state action, which could require further disclosures or other actions. complying with these laws requires significant personnel and operational resources and deters focus on our business. additionally, any additional required discounts would adversely affect the pricing of, and revenues from, our products. finally, while we seek to comply with all statutory and regulatory requirements, we face increased enforcement activity by the u.s. federal government, state governments, and private payors against pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for pricing and reimbursement-related issues. in addition, in the united states and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals and initiatives to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell products. for example, in the united states, there have been ongoing federal legislative and administrative efforts as well as legal challenges seeking to repeal, substantially modify or invalidate some or all of the provisions of the aca. tax legislation enacted at the end of 2017 eliminated the tax penalty for individuals who do not maintain sufficient health insurance coverage beginning in 2019. the bipartisan budget act of 2018 contained various provisions that affect coverage and reimbursement of drugs, including an increase in the discount that manufacturers of medicare part d brand name drugs must provide to medicare part d beneficiaries during the coverage gap from 50% to 70% starting in 2019. as a result, there is uncertainty regarding future changes in the laws and regulations applicable to the health care system and the effect any such changes may have on our business. some of these proposed and implemented reforms have resulted, or could result, in reduced reimbursement rates and/or more limited access for our current or future products, which would adversely affect our business, operations and financial results. the increasing availability and use of innovative specialty pharmaceuticals, combined with their relative higher cost as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products, is beginning to generate significant third-party payor interest in developing cost-containment strategies targeted to this sector. government regulations in both u.s. and ex-u.s. markets 22 could limit the prices that can be charged for our products and may limit our commercial opportunity. the increasing use of health technology assessments in markets around the world and the financial challenges faced by many governments may lead to significant adverse effects on our business. any legislation or regulatory changes or relaxation of laws that restrict imports of drugs from other countries, revisions to reimbursement or pharmaceuticals under government programs or general budget control actions also could reduce the net price we receive for our products. if regulatory authorities interpret any of our conduct, including our marketing practices, as being in violation of applicable health care laws, including fraud and abuse laws, laws prohibiting off-label promotion, disclosure laws or other similar laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. we are subject to health care fraud and abuse laws, such as the federal false claims act and the anti-kickback provisions of the federal social security act, laws prohibiting off-label product promotion and other similar laws and regulations both in united states and in non-u.s. markets. while we have a corporate compliance program designed to actively identify, prevent and mitigate risk through the implementation of compliance policies and systems and the promotion of a culture of compliance, if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws and regulations, our business could be materially harmed. the federal anti-kickback law prohibits knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the ordering, furnishing, arranging for or recommending of an item or service that is reimbursable, in whole or in part, by a federal health care program, such as medicare or medicaid. the federal statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, patients, purchasers and formulary managers on the other hand, and therefore constrains our marketing practices and our various service arrangements with physicians, including physicians who make clinical decisions to use our products. although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly and have been interpreted by courts as such. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in promotion for uses that the fda has not approved, known as off-label uses, that caused claims to be submitted to medicaid for non-covered off-label uses; submitting inflated best price information to the medicaid rebate program; and certain manufacturing-related violations. the scope of this and other laws may expand in ways that make compliance more difficult and expensive. although physicians are permitted, based on their medical judgment, to prescribe products for indications other than those approved by the fda, manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products for such off-label uses. we market our products to eligible cf patients for whom the applicable product has been approved and provide promotional materials and training programs to physicians regarding the use of each product in these patient populations. these eligible patients represent only a portion of the total patients with cf. if the fda determines that our promotional materials, training or other activities constitute off-label promotion, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or other activities, conduct corrective advertising or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. it also is possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they believe that the alleged improper promotion led to the submission and payment of claims for an off-label use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. even if it is later determined we were not in violation of these laws, we may be faced with negative publicity, incur significant expenses defending our actions and have to divert significant management resources from other matters. in recent years, legislation has been adopted at the federal, state and local level requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, health care provider payments and other activities. for example, as part of the aca, the federal government enacted the open payments (referred to as the sunshine act) provisions. open payments requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to report annually to the centers for medicare and medicaid services payments or other transfers of value made by that entity to physicians and teaching hospitals (and additional categories of health care practitioners beginning with reports submitted on or after january 1, 2022). we also now have similar reporting obligations 23 throughout the european union, or the e.u. we expended significant efforts to establish, and are continuing to devote significant resources to maintain and enhance, systems and processes in order to comply with these regulations. requirements to track and disclose financial interactions with health care providers and organizations increase government and public scrutiny of these financial interactions. failure to comply with the reporting requirements would result in significant civil monetary penalties. the sales and marketing practices of our industry have been the subject of increased scrutiny from governmental entities in the united sates and other countries in which we market our products, and we believe that this trend will continue. the risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are subject to a variety of interpretations. if our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any such laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from federal health care programs and/or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, also could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. there is also enhanced scrutiny of company-sponsored patient assistance programs, including insurance premium and co-pay assistance programs and donations to third party charities that provide such assistance. if we, or our vendors or donation recipients are deemed to fail to comply with relevant laws, regulations or government guidance in the operation of these programs, we could be subject to significant fines and penalties. if we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the medicaid drug rebate program or other governmental pricing programs in the u.s., we could be subject to additional reimbursement requirements, penalties, sanctions and fines which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. we participate in the medicaid drug rebate program and a number of other federal and state government pricing programs in the u.s. in order to obtain coverage for the product by certain government health care programs. these programs would generally require us to pay rebates or provide discounts to certain private purchasers or government payers in connection with our products when dispensed to beneficiaries of these programs. in some cases, such as with the medicaid drug rebate program, the rebates are based on pricing and rebate calculations that we report on a monthly and quarterly basis to the government agencies that administer the programs. the terms, scope and complexity of these government pricing programs change frequently. we may also have reimbursement obligations or be subject to penalties if we fail to provide timely and accurate information to the government, pay the correct rebates or offer the correct discounted pricing. changes to the price reporting or rebate requirements of these programs would affect our obligations to pay rebates or offer discounts. responding to current and future changes may increase our costs and the complexity of compliance, will be time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. changes in laws and regulations governing the privacy and protection of data and personal information could adversely affect our business. we are subject to data privacy and protection laws and regulations that apply to the collection, transmission, storage and use of proprietary information and personally-identifying information, which among other things, impose certain requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. in addition, numerous other federal and state laws, including state security breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws and federal and state consumer protection laws, govern the collection, use, disclosure and security of personal information. various foreign countries also have, or are developing, laws governing the collection, use, disclosure, security, and cross-border transmission of personal information. the legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect our business. for example, the e.u. general data protection regulation went into effect in may 2018 and has imposed new obligations on us with respect to our processing of personal data and the cross-border transfer of such data. while we continue to address the implications of the recent changes to e.u. data privacy regulations, data privacy remains an evolving landscape at both the domestic and international level, with new regulations coming into effect and continued legal challenges and our efforts to comply with the evolving data protection rules may be unsuccessful. we must devote significant resources to understanding and complying with this changing landscape. failure to comply with laws regarding data protection would expose us to risk of enforcement actions taken by data protection authorities in the e.u. and the potential for significant penalties if we are found to be non-compliant. similarly, failure to comply with federal and state laws in the united states regarding privacy and security of personal information could expose us to penalties under such laws. even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could harm our business. 24 the ema has adopted a policy on publication of clinical data whereby it will publish clinical reports submitted as part of maas for drugs. the ema aims to publish reports within 60 days after a decision on the application has been made by the european commission. the ability of third-parties to review and/or analyze the raw data from our clinical trials may increase the risk of patient confidentiality breaches and could result in enhanced scrutiny of our clinical trials results. such scrutiny could result in misconceptions being spread about our drugs and drug candidates, even if the underlying analysis of such review turns out to be flawed. these publications could also result in the disclosure of information to our competitors that we might otherwise deem confidential, which could harm our competitive position. the use of social media platforms presents risks and challenges. social media is being used by third parties to communicate about our products and drug candidates and the diseases our therapies are designed to treat. we believe that members of the cf community may be more active on social media as compared to other patient populations due to the demographics of this patient population. social media practices in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are evolving, which creates uncertainty and risk of noncompliance with regulations applicable to our business. for example, patients may use social media platforms to comment on the effectiveness of, or adverse experiences with, a drug or a drug candidate, which could result in reporting obligations. in addition, our employees may engage on social media in ways that may not comply with our social media policy or with legal or regulatory requirements, which may give rise to liability, lead to the loss of trade secrets and other intellectual property, or result in public disclosure of protected personal information. there is a risk of inappropriate disclosure of sensitive information or negative or inaccurate posts or comments about us on any social networking website. if any of these events were to occur or we otherwise fail to comply with applicable regulations, we could incur liability, face restrictive regulatory actions or incur other harm to our business, including damage to our reputation. risks related to development, clinical testing and regulation of our products and drug candidates our drug candidates remain subject to clinical testing and regulatory approval. our future success is dependent on our ability to successfully develop additional drug candidates for both cf and non-cf indications. our business depends upon the successful development and commercialization of drug candidates. these drug candidates are in various stages of development and must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before they can be approved for sale by the fda or comparable foreign regulatory authorities. to satisfy these standards, we must allocate resources among our various development programs and must engage in expensive and lengthy testing of our drug candidates. discovery and development efforts for new pharmaceutical products, including new combination therapies, are resource-intensive and may take 10 to 15 years or longer for each drug candidate. despite our efforts, our drug candidates may not: offer therapeutic or other improvement over existing competitive therapies; show the level of safety and efficacy, including the level of statistical significance, required by the fda or other regulatory authorities for approval of a drug candidate; meet applicable regulatory standards; be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs; or if approved for commercial sale, be successfully marketed as pharmaceutical products. we have recently completed and/or have ongoing or planned clinical trials for several of our drug candidates. the strength of our company's product portfolio and pipeline will depend in large part upon the outcomes of these clinical trials and our ability to develop and commercialize combination treatments for cf, including our next-generation cftr corrector compounds and develop treatments for other diseases. results of our clinical trials and findings from our nonclinical studies, including toxicology findings in nonclinical studies conducted concurrently with clinical trials, could lead to abrupt changes in our development activities, including the possible cessation of development activities associated with a particular drug candidate or program. for example, in 2018 we discontinued development of vx-210 based on a recommendation by the data safety monitoring board, or dsmb, to stop a clinical trial early due to futility. moreover, clinical data are often susceptible to varying interpretations, and many companies that have believed their drug candidates performed satisfactorily in clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain marketing approval of their drug candidate. furthermore, results from our clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance or otherwise provide the level of evidence or safety and efficacy required by the fda or other regulatory authorities for approval of a drug candidate. 25 many companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including our company, have suffered significant setbacks in later-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in earlier-stage clinical trials. accordingly, the results from completed preclinical studies and clinical trials may not be replicated in later clinical trials, and ongoing clinical trials for our drug candidates may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later-stage clinical trials or of the likelihood of approval of a drug candidate for commercial sale. in addition, from time to time we report interim data from our clinical trials. interim data from a clinical trial may not be predictive of final results from the clinical trial. if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval, we will be unable to commercialize our drug candidates. the time required to complete clinical trials and to satisfy the fda and other countries' regulatory review processes is uncertain and typically takes many years. our analysis of data obtained from nonclinical and clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. we also may encounter unanticipated delays or increased costs due to government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in governmental policy during the period of drug development, clinical trials and governmental regulatory review. we may seek a fast track and/or breakthrough therapy designation for some of our drug candidates. drug candidates that receive one or both of these designations may be eligible for, among other things, a priority regulatory review. each of these designations is within the discretion of the fda. accordingly, even if we believe one of our drug candidates meets the criteria for fast track and/or breakthrough therapy designation, the fda may disagree and instead determine not to make such designation. the receipt of one or both of these designations for a drug candidate does not guarantee a faster development process, review or approval compared to drugs developed or considered for approval under conventional fda procedures and does not assure ultimate approval by the fda. in addition, even if one or more of our drugs or drug candidates qualifies for fast track and/or breakthrough therapy designation, the fda may later decide to withdraw such designation if it determines that the drug or drug candidate no longer meets the conditions for qualification. any failure to obtain regulatory approvals for a drug candidate would prevent us from commercializing that drug candidate. any delay in obtaining required regulatory approvals could materially adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize a drug candidate. furthermore, any regulatory approval to market a drug may be subject to limitations that we do not expect on the indicated uses for which we may market the drug. any such limitations could reduce the size of the market for the drug. we also are subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement. non-u.s. jurisdictions have different approval procedures than those required by the fda, and these jurisdictions may impose additional testing requirements for our drug candidates. the foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with the fda approval process described above, as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of foreign requirements. approval by the fda does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities outside the united states and approval by a foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by the fda. in addition, although the fda may accept data from clinical trials conducted outside the united states, acceptance of this data is subject to conditions imposed by the fda. for example, the clinical trial must be well designed and conducted and performed by qualified investigators in accordance with ethical principles. the trial population also must adequately represent the u.s. population, and the data must be applicable to the u.s. population and u.s. medical practice in ways that the fda deems clinically meaningful. in addition, while these clinical trials are subject to the applicable local laws, fda acceptance of the data will depend on its determination that the trials also complied with all applicable u.s. laws and regulations. if the fda does not accept the data from any trial that we conduct outside the united states, it would likely result in the need for additional trials, which would be costly and time-consuming and delay or permanently halt our development of the applicable drug candidate. if clinical trials are prolonged or delayed, our development timelines for the affected development program could be extended, our costs to develop the drug candidate could increase and the competitive position of the drug candidate could be adversely affected. we cannot predict whether or not we will encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause us or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend clinical trials, or delay the analysis of data from our completed or ongoing clinical trials. among the factors that could delay our development programs are: ongoing discussions with the fda or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials and the number of clinical trials we must conduct; delays in enrolling volunteers or patients into clinical trials, including as a result of low numbers of patients that meet the eligibility criteria for the trial; 26 a lower than anticipated retention rate of volunteers or patients in clinical trials; the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive results, unforeseen complications in testing or clinical investigator error; inadequate supply or deficient quality of drug candidate materials or other materials necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials; unfavorable fda or foreign regulatory authority inspection and review of a manufacturing facility that supplied clinical trial materials or its relevant manufacturing records or a clinical trial site or records of any clinical or preclinical investigation; unfavorable scientific results from clinical trials; serious and unexpected drug-related side-effects experienced by participants in our clinical trials or by participants in clinical trials being conducted by our competitors to evaluate drug candidates with similar mechanisms of action or structures to drug candidates that we are developing; favorable results in testing of our competitors' drug candidates, or fda or foreign regulatory authority approval of our competitors' drug candidates; or action by the fda or a foreign regulatory authority to place a clinical hold or partial clinical hold on a trial or compound or deeming the clinical trial conduct as problematic. our ability to enroll patients in our clinical trials in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis is subject to a number of factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the number of other clinical trials ongoing and competing for patients in the same indication and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. in addition, patients may drop out of our clinical trials or may be lost to follow-up medical evaluation after treatment ends, and this could impair the validity or statistical significance of the trials. delays in patient enrollment or unforeseen drop-out rates may result in increased costs and longer development times. we, our collaborators, the fda or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a drug candidate at any time if we or they believe the healthy volunteers or patients participating in such clinical trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. any such suspension could materially adversely affect the development of a particular drug candidate and our business. if our processes and systems are not compliant with regulatory requirements, we could be subject to restrictions on marketing our products or could be delayed in submitting regulatory filings seeking approvals for our drug candidates. we have a number of regulated processes and systems that are required both prior to and following approval of our drugs and drug candidates. these processes and systems are subject to continual review and periodic inspection by the fda and other regulatory bodies. in addition, the clinical research organizations and other third parties that we work with in our non-clinical studies and clinical trials and our oversight of such parties are subject to similar reviews and periodic inspection by the fda and other regulatory bodies. if compliance issues are identified at any point in the development and approval process, we may experience delays in filing for regulatory approval for our drug candidates, or delays in obtaining regulatory approval after filing, if at all. any later discovery of previously unknown problems or safety issues with approved drugs or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in restrictions on such drugs or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of drugs from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal penalties or a refusal by the fda and/or other regulatory bodies to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we are party to agreements that transfer responsibility for complying with specified regulatory requirements, such as filing and maintenance of marketing authorizations and safety reporting or compliance with manufacturing requirements, to our collaborators and third-party manufacturers. if our collaborators or third-party manufacturers do not fulfill these regulatory obligations, any drugs for which we or they obtain approval may be subject to later restrictions on manufacturing or sale, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 27 risks related to collaborations and other business development activities our ability to execute on our long-term strategy depends in part on our ability to acquire rights to additional drugs, drug candidates and other technologies that have the potential to add to our pipeline or provide us with new commercial opportunities. in order to achieve our long-term business objectives, our strategy is to supplement our internal pipeline by acquiring rights to additional drugs, drug candidates and other technologies that have the potential to provide us with new commercial opportunities, including in cf and in therapeutic areas outside of cf. we may not be able to acquire, in-license or otherwise obtain rights to additional drugs, drug candidates or other technologies on acceptable terms or at all. we have faced and will continue to face significant competition for the acquisition of rights to these types of drugs, drug candidates and other technologies from a variety of other companies with interests in the specialty pharmaceutical marketplace, many of which have significantly more financial resources and experience in business development activities than we have. in addition, non-profit organizations may be willing to provide capital to the companies that control additional drugs, drug candidates or technologies, which may provide incentives for companies to advance these drugs, drug candidates or technologies independently. because of these competitive pressures, the cost of acquiring, in-licensing or otherwise obtaining rights to such drugs, drug candidates or other technologies has grown dramatically in recent years and may be at levels that we cannot afford or that we believe are not justified by market potential. this competition is most intense for approved drugs and late-stage drug candidates, which have the lowest risk and would have the most immediate effect on our financial performance. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of potential acquisitions or licenses to businesses, drugs, drug candidates and other technologies, and the integration following any such acquisition or license may disrupt our business and management. we may acquire a business or the rights to drugs, drug candidates or other technologies. in recent years we have entered into both acquisition and collaboration arrangements, including our acquisition of vx-561 from concert, our agreement with crispr to collaborate on the discovery and development of potential new treatments aimed at the underlying genetic causes of human diseases using crispr-cas9 gene editing technology and our collaboration agreement with moderna, pursuant to which we are seeking to identify and develop mrna therapeutics for the treatment of cf. with respect to each of these transactions and any additional acquisition of a business or rights to drugs, drug candidates or other technologies, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of such transaction, each of which involves numerous risks. these risks include: failure to successfully develop and commercialize the drugs, drug candidates or technologies that we acquire or license or to achieve other strategic objectives; inadequate or unfavorable data from clinical trials evaluating the acquired or licensed drug or drug candidates; entry into markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience or where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management and employees from other opportunities and challenges; potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired company, or acquired or licensed drug, drug candidate or technology, including but not limited to, problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges with respect to intellectual property, product quality, safety, accounting practices, employee, customer or third party relations and other known and unknown liabilities; liability for activities of the acquired company or licensor before the acquisition or license, including intellectual property infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities; exposure to litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risk as a result of an acquisition or license, including but not limited to, claims from terminated employees, customers, former equity holders or other third-parties; difficulty in integrating the drugs, drug candidates, technologies, business operations and personnel of an acquired asset or company; and difficulties in the integration of the acquired company's departments, systems, including accounting, human resource and other administrative systems, technologies, books and records, and procedures, as well as in 28 maintaining uniform standards, controls, including internal control over financial reporting required by the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and related procedures and policies. acquisitions and licensing arrangements are inherently risky, and ultimately, if we do not complete an announced acquisition or license transaction or integrate an acquired business, or an acquired or licensed drug, drug candidate or other technology successfully and in a timely manner, we may not realize the benefits of the acquisition or license to the extent anticipated and the perception of the effectiveness of our management team and our company may suffer in the marketplace. additionally, we may later incur impairment charges related to assets acquired in any such transaction. for example, we entered into a strategic collaboration and license agreement with parion sciences, inc., or parion, to develop enac inhibitors in 2015 and incurred an impairment charge related to this collaboration in the third quarter of 2017. in addition, even if we achieve the long-term benefits associated with strategic transactions, our expenses and short-term costs may increase materially and adversely affect our liquidity and short-term net income (loss). future licenses or acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, the creation of contingent liabilities, impairment expenses related to goodwill, and impairment or amortization expenses related to other intangible assets, which could harm our financial condition. we face risks in connection with existing and future collaborations with respect to the development, manufacture and commercialization of our products and drug candidates. the risks that we face in connection with our current collaborations, including with arbor, crispr, janssen and moderna, and any future collaborations, include the following: our collaborators may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts or may have insufficient resources to effectively develop our drug candidates. the ability of some of our products and drug candidates to reach their potential could be limited if collaborators decrease or fail to increase development or commercialization efforts related to those products or drug candidates. our collaboration agreements provide our collaborators with a level of discretion in determining the amount and timing of efforts and resources that they will apply to these collaborations. any future collaboration agreements may have the effect of limiting the areas of research and development that we may pursue, either alone or in collaboration with third parties. collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, drugs that are similar to or competitive with the drugs or drug candidates that are the subject of their collaborations with us. disagreements with collaborators, including disagreements over proprietary rights, contract interpretation or the preferred course of development, might cause delays or termination of the research, development or commercialization of drug candidates, might lead to additional responsibilities for us with respect to drug candidates, or might result in litigation or arbitration. any such disagreements would divert management attention and resources and be time-consuming and expensive. collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our intellectual property or proprietary information or expose us to potential litigation. collaborators may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may expose us to litigation and potential liability. investigations and/or compliance or enforcement actions against a collaborator, which may expose us to indirect liability as a result of our partnership with such collaborator. our collaboration agreements are subject to termination under various circumstances. additionally, if a collaborator were to be involved in a business combination, it might deemphasize or terminate the development or commercialization of any drug candidate licensed to it by us. if one of our collaborators terminates its agreement with us, we may find it more difficult to attract new collaborators and our perception in the business and financial communities could be harmed. 29 we may not be able to attract collaborators or external funding for the development and commercialization of certain of our drug candidates. as part of our ongoing strategy, we may seek additional collaborative arrangements or external funding for certain of our development programs and/or seek to expand existing collaborations to cover additional commercialization and/or development activities. we have a number of research programs and early-stage clinical development programs, some of which are being developed in collaboration with a third party. for example, we have an ongoing collaboration with janssen, pursuant to which janssen is developing drug candidates that resulted from our research activities. at any time, we may determine that in order to continue development of a drug candidate or program or successfully commercialize a drug we need to identify a collaborator or amend or expand an existing collaboration. whether we reach a definitive agreement for a collaboration will depend, among other things, upon our assessment of the collaborator's resources and expertise, the terms and conditions of the proposed collaboration and the proposed collaborator's evaluation of a number of factors. those factors may include the design or results of clinical trials, the likelihood of approval by the fda or similar regulatory authorities outside the united states, the potential market for the subject drug candidate, the costs and complexities of manufacturing and delivering such drug candidate to patients, the potential of competing products, the existence of uncertainty with respect to our ownership of the applicable intellectual property, which can exist if there is a challenge to such ownership without regard to the merits of the challenge, and industry and market conditions generally. potentially, and depending on the circumstances, we may desire that a collaborator either agree to fund portions of a drug development program led by us, or agree to provide all of the funding and directly lead the development and commercialization of a program. no assurance can be given that any efforts we make to seek additional collaborative arrangements will be successfully completed on a timely basis or at all. if we elect to fund and undertake development or commercialization activities on our own, we may need to obtain additional expertise and additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. if we are unable to enter into acceptable collaborative relationships, one or more of our development programs could be delayed or terminated and the possibility of our receiving a return on our investment in the program could be impaired. risks related to third-party manufacturing and reliance on third parties we depend on third-party manufacturers to manufacture our products and the materials we require for our clinical trials. we may not be able to maintain these relationships and could experience supply disruptions outside of our control. we rely on a worldwide network of third-party manufacturers to manufacture our drugs for commercial use and our drug candidates for clinical trials. as a result of our reliance on these third-party manufacturers and suppliers, we could be subject to significant supply disruptions outside of our control. our supply chain for sourcing raw materials and manufacturing drug product ready for distribution is a multi-step international endeavor. third-party contract manufacturers, including some in china, perform different parts of our manufacturing process. contract manufacturers may supply us with raw materials, convert these raw materials into drug substance and/or convert the drug substance into final dosage form. establishing and managing this global supply chain requires a significant financial commitment and the creation and maintenance of numerous third-party contractual relationships. although we attempt to manage the business relationships with companies in our supply chain, we do not have control over their operations. supply disruptions may result from a number of factors, including shortages in product raw materials, labor or technical difficulties, regulatory inspections or restrictions, shipping or customs delays or any other performance failure by any third-party manufacturer on which we rely. any supply disruptions could disrupt sales of our products and/or the timing of our clinical trials. we require a supply for our medicines for commercial sale and a supply of our drug candidates for use in our clinical trials. while we have developed some internal capabilities, a majority of the manufacturing steps needed to produce our drug candidates and drug products are performed through a third-party manufacturing network. to ensure the stability of our supply chains we aim to develop additional sources of manufacture for all steps of our manufacturing processes at the time of, or shortly after, marketing approval. therefore, at any point in time, we may have a limited number of single source manufacturers for certain steps in our manufacturing processes, particularly for recently launched products. if we or our third-party manufacturers become unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing product on our behalf and we are not able to promptly identify another manufacturer, we could experience a disruption in the commercial supply of our then-marketed medicines, which would have a significant effect on patients, our business and our product revenues. similarly, a disruption in the clinical supply of drug products could delay the completion of clinical trials and affect timelines for regulatory filings. there can be no assurance that we will be able to establish and maintain secondary manufacturers for all of our drug candidates and drug products on a timely basis or at all. in the course of providing its services, a contract manufacturer may develop process technology related to the manufacture of our products or drug candidates that the manufacturer owns, either independently or jointly with us. this 30 would increase our reliance on that manufacturer or require us to obtain a license from that manufacturer in order to have our products or drug candidates manufactured by other suppliers utilizing the same process. we rely on third parties to conduct certain pre-clinical work and clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such studies and/or trials or failing to satisfy regulatory requirements. we rely on third parties such as contract research organizations to help manage certain pre-clinical work and our clinical trials and on medical institutions, clinical investigators and clinical research organizations such as the therapeutic development network, which is primarily funded by the cff, to assist in the design and review of, and to conduct our clinical trials, including enrolling qualified patients. our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities but does not relieve us of our responsibilities. for example, we remain responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the clinical trial. moreover, the fda requires us to comply with standards, commonly referred to as good laboratory practices and good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of pre-clinical and clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. if these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be required to replace them. although we believe that there are a number of other third-party contractors we could engage to continue these activities, it may result in a delay of the affected clinical trial or drug development program. if clinical trials are not conducted in accordance with our contractual expectations or regulatory requirements, action by regulatory authorities might significantly and adversely affect the conduct or progress of these clinical trials or in specific circumstances might result in a requirement that a clinical trial be redone. accordingly, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize our drug candidates could be delayed. risks related to intellectual property if our patents do not protect our drugs or our drugs infringe third-party patents, we could be subject to litigation which could result in injunctions preventing us from selling our products or substantial liabilities. we have numerous issued patents and pending patent applications in the united states, as well as counterparts in other countries. our success will depend, in significant part, on our ability to obtain and defend u.s. and foreign patents covering our drugs, their uses and our processes, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. we cannot be certain that any patents will issue from our pending patent applications or, even if patents issue or have issued, that the issued claims will provide us with adequate protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially valuable. due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents, our ability to obtain, maintain and enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. recent patent reform legislation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents in the u.s. the leahy-smith america invents act, or the leahy-smith act, includes a number of significant changes to united states patent law. these include provisions that affect the way patent applications are prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. the united states patent office developed new regulations and procedures to govern administration of the leahy-smith act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the leahy-smith act, and in particular, the first to file provisions, became effective in march 2013. the first to file provisions limit the rights of an inventor who is the first to invent an invention but is not the first to file an application claiming that invention. u.s. and foreign patent applications typically are maintained in confidence for a period of time after they initially are filed with the applicable patent office. consequently, we cannot be certain that we were the first to invent, or the first to file patent applications on, our products or drug candidates or their use. if a third party also has filed a u.s. patent application relating to our drugs or drug candidates, their uses, or a similar invention, we may have to participate in legal or administrative proceedings to determine priority of invention. for applications governed by the lahey-smith act, if a third-party has an earlier filed u.s. patent application relating to our drugs or drug candidates, their uses, or a similar invention, we may be unable to obtain an issued patent from our application. the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its inventorship, scope, validity or enforceability. our patents may be challenged by third parties, resulting in the patent being deemed invalid, unenforceable or narrowed in scope, or the third party may circumvent any such issued patents. also, our pending patent applications may not issue, and we may not receive any additional patents. our patents might not contain claims that are sufficiently broad to prevent others from utilizing our technologies. for instance, the issued patents relating to our drugs or drug candidates may be limited to a particular molecule or molecules and may not cover similar molecules that have similar clinical properties. consequently, our competitors may 31 independently develop competing products that do not infringe our patents or other intellectual property. in addition, if the breadth or strength of protection provided by our patents and patent applications is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to license, develop or commercialize current or future products. the laws of many foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the united states and many companies in our segment of the pharmaceutical industry have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. if we encounter such difficulties in protecting or are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, our business could be substantially harmed. because of the extensive time required for the discovery, development, testing and regulatory review of drug candidates, it is possible that a patent may expire before a drug candidate can be commercialized, or a patent may expire or remain in effect for only a short period following commercialization of such drug candidate. this would result in a minimal or non-existent period of patent exclusivity. if our drug candidates are not commercialized significantly ahead of the expiration date of any applicable patent, or if we have no patent protection on such drug candidates, then, to the extent available we would rely on other forms of exclusivity, such as regulatory exclusivity provided by the fdca and its counterpart agencies in various jurisdictions, and/or orphan drug exclusivity. uncertainty over intellectual property in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry has been the source of litigation and other disputes, which is inherently costly and unpredictable. there is considerable uncertainty within our industry about the validity, scope and enforceability of many issued patents in the united states and elsewhere in the world, and, to date, the law and practice remains in substantial flux both in the agencies that grant patents and in the courts. we cannot currently determine the ultimate scope and validity of patents which may be granted to third parties in the future or which patents might be asserted as being infringed by the manufacture, use and sale of our products. there has been, and we expect that there may continue to be, significant litigation in the pharmaceutical industry regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. litigation, arbitrations, administrative proceedings and other legal actions with private parties and governmental authorities concerning patents and other intellectual property rights may be protracted, expensive and distracting to management. competitors may sue us as a way of delaying the introduction of our drugs or to remove our drugs from the market. any litigation, including litigation related to abbreviated new drug applications, or anda, litigation related to 505(b)(2) applications, interference proceedings to determine priority of inventions, derivations proceedings, inter partes review, oppositions to patents in foreign countries, litigation against our collaborators or similar actions, may be costly and time consuming and could harm our business. we expect that litigation may be necessary in some instances to determine the validity and scope of certain of our proprietary rights. litigation may be necessary in other instances to determine the validity, scope or non-infringement of certain patent rights claimed by third parties to be pertinent to the manufacture, use or sale of our products. ultimately, the outcome of such litigation could adversely affect the validity and scope of our patent or other proprietary rights, hinder our ability to manufacture and market our products, or result in the assessment of significant monetary damages against us that may exceed amounts, if any, accrued in our financial statements. to the extent that valid present or future third-party patents or other intellectual property rights cover our drugs, drug candidates or technologies, we or our strategic collaborators may seek licenses or other agreements from the holders of such rights in order to avoid or settle legal claims. such licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, which may hinder our ability to, or prevent us from being able to, manufacture and market our drugs. payments under any licenses that we are able to obtain would reduce our profits derived from the covered products. we may be subject to claims by third parties asserting that our employees or we have misappropriated their intellectual property, or claiming ownership of what we regard as our own intellectual property. many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. although we try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of any such employee's former employer. litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. in addition, while it is our policy to require our employees and contractors who may be involved in the development of intellectual property to execute agreements assigning such intellectual property to us, we may be unsuccessful in executing such an agreement with each party who in fact develops intellectual property that we regard as our own. our and their assignment agreements may not be self-executing or may be breached, and we may be forced to bring claims against third 32 parties, or defend claims they may bring against us, to determine the ownership of what we regard as our intellectual property. if we fail in prosecuting or defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. even if we are successful in prosecuting or defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. risks related to our operations risks associated with operating in foreign countries could materially adversely affect our business. we have expanded our international operations over the past several years in order to market our cf medicines and expand our research and development capabilities. new laws and industry codes in the e.u. and elsewhere have expanded transparency requirements regarding payments and transfers of value as well as patient-level clinical trial data. new laws in the e.u. also have expanded protections related to personal data and provided for increased sanctions for violations. collectively, our expansion and these new requirements are adding to our compliance costs and expose us to potential sanctions for failing to meet the enhanced safeguards and reporting demands in these jurisdictions. in addition, a significant portion of our commercial supply chain, including sourcing of raw materials and manufacturing, is located in china and the e.u. consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to risks related to operating in foreign countries, including risks relating to intellectual property protections and business interruptions. these risks are increased with respect to countries, such as china, that have substantially different local laws and business practices and weaker protections for intellectual property. risks associated with conducting operations in foreign countries include: differing regulatory requirements for drug approvals and regulation of approved drugs in foreign countries; varying reimbursement regimes and difficulties or the inability to obtain reimbursement for our products in foreign countries in a timely manner; differing patient treatment infrastructures, particularly since our business is focused on the treatment of serious diseases that affect relatively smaller numbers of patients and are typically prescribed by specialist physicians; collectibility of accounts receivable; changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements, the risks of which appear to have increased in the current political environment; economic weakness, including recession and inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; differing levels of enforcement and/or recognition of contractual and intellectual property rights; complying with local laws and regulations, which are interpreted and enforced differently across jurisdictions and which can change significantly over time; foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes; foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in reduced revenues or increased operating expenses, and other obligations incident to doing business or operating in another country; workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the united states; import and export licensing requirements, tariffs, and other trade and travel restrictions; production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism. our revenues are subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations due to the global nature of our operations. although we have foreign currency forward contracts to hedge forecasted product revenues denominated in foreign currencies, our efforts to reduce currency exchange losses may not be successful. as a result, currency fluctuations among our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar, and the currencies in which we do business will affect our operating results, often in unpredictable ways. 33 in addition, our international operations are subject to regulation under u.s. law. for example, the fcpa prohibits u.s. companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad. in many countries, the health care professionals we regularly interact with may meet the definition of a foreign government official for purposes of the fcpa. we also are subject to import/export control laws. failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including the possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls, seizures, withdrawal of an approved product from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions, the prosecution of executives overseeing our international operations and corresponding bad publicity and negative perception of our company in foreign countries. if we fail to manage our operations effectively, our business may suffer. we have expanded and are continuing to expand our global operations and capabilities, which has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational, research and development and financial infrastructure. to effectively manage our business, we need to: implement and clearly communicate our corporate-wide strategies; enhance our operational and financial infrastructure, including our controls over records and information; enhance our operational, financial and management processes, including our cross-functional decision-making processes and our budget prioritization systems; train and manage our global employee base; and enhance our compliance and legal resources. risk relating to the referendum of the united kingdom's membership of the european union. our european headquarters and european research facility are located in the united kingdom, or the u.k., and a significant portion of our ex-u.s. net product revenues are derived from sales in the u.k. in june 2016, the u.k. held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the e.u., commonly referred to as brexit. the u.k. government provided official notice of withdrawal from the e.u. in march 2017 and has a period of two years from the date of its formal notification (such period ending march 29, 2019) to negotiate the terms of its withdrawal from, and future relationship with, the e.u., including the terms of trade between the u.k. and the e.u. and potentially other countries. if no formal withdrawal agreement is reached, then it is expected that the u.k.'s membership in the e.u. will automatically terminate two years after the submission of the notification of the u.k.'s intention to withdraw from the e.u., unless all remaining member states unanimously consent to an extension of this period. discussions between the u.k. and the e.u. focused on finalizing withdrawal issues and transition agreements are ongoing. however, limited progress to date in these negotiations and ongoing uncertainty within the u.k. government increases the possibility of the u.k. leaving the e.u. on march 29, 2019 without a withdrawal agreement and associated transition period in place, which is likely to cause significant market and economic disruption, which may cause third-party payors, including governmental organizations, to closely monitor their costs and reduce their spending budgets. the effects of brexit will depend on any agreements the u.k. makes to retain access to e.u. markets either during a transitional period or more permanently. brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the u.k. determines which e.u. laws to replace or replicate. given the lack of comparable precedent, it is unclear what financial, trade, regulatory and legal implications the withdrawal of the u.k. from the e.u. would have and how such withdrawal would affect us. any of these effects of brexit, among others, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. our business has a substantial risk of product liability claims and other litigation liability. if we do not obtain appropriate levels of insurance, any potential claims could adversely affect our business. we are or may be involved in various legal proceedings, including securities class action lawsuits and claims related to product liability, intellectual property and breach of contract. such proceedings may involve claims for, or the possibility of, fines and penalties involving substantial amounts of money or other relief, including but not limited to civil or criminal fines and penalties. if any of these legal proceedings were to result in an adverse outcome, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. with respect to product liability and clinical trial risks, in the ordinary course of business we are subject to liability claims and lawsuits, including potential class actions, alleging that our products or drug candidates have caused, or could cause, serious adverse events or other injury. we have product liability insurance and clinical trial insurance in amounts that we believe are adequate to cover this risk. however, our insurance may not provide adequate coverage against all potential 34 liabilities. if a claim is brought against us, we might be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as pay uncovered damage awards resulting from a claim brought successfully against us and these damages could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. furthermore, whether or not we are ultimately successful in defending any such claims, we might be required to direct significant financial and managerial resources to such defense and adverse publicity is likely to result. a breakdown or breach of our information technology systems could subject us to liability or interrupt the operation of our business. we maintain and rely extensively on information technology systems and network infrastructures for the effective operation of our business. in the course of our business, we collect, store and transmit confidential information (including personal information and intellectual property), and it is critical that we do so in a secure manner to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information. the size and complexity of our information technology and information security systems makes such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches. a disruption, infiltration or failure of our information technology systems or any of our data centers as a result of software or hardware malfunctions, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, employee theft or misuse, power disruptions, natural disasters, floods or accidents could cause breaches of data security and loss of critical data, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business and subject us to both private and governmental causes of action. while we have implemented security measures in an attempt to minimize these risks to our data and information technology systems and have adopted a business continuity plan to deal with a disruption to our information technology systems, cyber-attacks are increasing in their frequency, sophistication and intensity, and have become increasingly difficult to detect. there can be no assurance that our efforts to protect our data and information systems will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business. in addition, our liability insurance may not be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to security breaches, cyber-attacks or other related liabilities. if we fail to attract and retain skilled employees, our business could be materially harmed. because our drug discovery and development activities are highly technical in nature, we require the services of highly qualified and trained scientists who have the skills necessary to conduct these activities. in addition, we need to attract and retain employees with experience in marketing and commercialization of medicines. we have entered into employment agreements with some executives and provide compensation-related benefits to all of our key employees that vest over time and therefore induce them to remain with us. however, the employment agreements can be terminated by the executive on relatively short notice. the value to employees of stock-related benefits that vest over time such as options and restricted stock units is significantly affected by movements in our stock price, and may at any point in time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. we face intense competition for our personnel from our competitors and other companies throughout our industry. we also experience competition for the hiring of scientific and clinical personnel from universities and research institutions. moreover, the growth of local biotechnology companies and the expansion of major pharmaceutical companies into the boston area have increased competition for the available pool of skilled employees, especially in technical fields, and the high cost of living in massachusetts makes it difficult to attract employees from other parts of the country to massachusetts. in addition, the available pool of skilled employees would be further reduced if immigration laws change in a manner that increases restrictions on immigration. our ability to commercialize our products, and achieve our research and development objectives, depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands. if we are unable to hire and retain qualified personnel, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. if we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected. our research and development efforts involve the regulated use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various controlled and radioactive compounds. although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by state, federal and foreign regulations, the risk of loss of, or accidental contamination or injury from, these materials cannot be eliminated. if an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. we also are subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. although we maintain workers' compensation insurance to cover us for costs we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. we maintain insurance to cover pollution conditions or other extraordinary or unanticipated events relating to our use and disposal of hazardous materials that we believe is appropriate based on the small amount of hazardous materials we generate. additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the 35 future. we may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations. if our facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, our operations would be seriously harmed. most of our operations, including our research and development activities, are conducted in a limited number of facilities. if any of our major facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, due to an earthquake, severe storms, fire or similar event, our operations could be seriously harmed. for example, our corporate headquarters, as well as additional leased space that we use for certain logistical and laboratory operations and manufacturing, are located in a flood zone along the massachusetts coast. we have adopted a business continuity plan to address most crises. however, if we are unable to fully implement our business continuity plans, we may experience delays in recovery of data and/or an inability to perform vital corporate functions, which could result in a significant disruption in our research, development, manufacturing and/or commercial activities, large expenses to repair or replace the facility and/or the loss of critical data, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. risks related to holding our common stock our stock price may fluctuate. market prices for securities of companies such as ours are highly volatile. from january 1, 2018 to december 31, 2018 , our common stock traded between $144.07 and $194.92 per share. the market for our stock, like that of other companies in the biotechnology industry, has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. the future market price of our securities could be significantly and adversely affected by factors such as: the information contained in our quarterly earnings releases, including our net product revenues and operating expenses for completed periods and guidance regarding future periods; announcements of fda actions with respect to our drugs or our competitors' drugs, or regulatory filings for our drug candidates or those of our competitors, or announcements of interim or final results of clinical trials or nonclinical studies relating to our drugs, drug candidates or those of our competitors; developments in domestic and international governmental policy or regulation, for example, relating to drug pricing or intellectual property rights; technological innovations or the introduction of new drugs by our competitors; government regulatory action; public concern as to the safety of drugs developed by us or our competitors; developments in patent or other intellectual property rights or announcements relating to these matters; information disclosed by third parties regarding our business or products; developments relating specifically to other companies and market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks or stocks in general; business development, capital structuring or financing activities; and general worldwide or national economic, political and capital market conditions. following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, stockholder derivative lawsuits and securities class action litigation are common. such litigation, if instituted against us or our officers and directors, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuation. our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past, and we expect that they will continue to do so in the future. our revenues are primarily dependent on the level of net product revenues from sales of our cf medicines. our total net product revenues could vary on a quarterly basis based on, among other factors, the timing of orders from our significant customers. additional factors that have caused quarterly fluctuations to our operating results in recent years include variable amounts of revenues, expenses related to business development activities, changes in the fair value of our strategic investments, impairment charges, charges for excess and obsolete inventories, changes in the fair value of derivative 36 instruments and the consolidation or deconsolidation of variable interest entities. our revenues also are subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations due to the global nature of our operations. although we have foreign currency forward contracts to hedge forecasted product revenues denominated in foreign currencies, our efforts to reduce currency exchange losses may not be successful. as a result, currency fluctuations among our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar, and the currencies in which we do business may affect our operating results, often in unpredictable ways. our quarterly results also could be materially affected by significant charges, which may or may not be similar to charges we have experienced in the past. most of our operating expenses relate to our research and development activities, do not vary directly with the amount of revenues and are difficult to adjust in the short term. as a result, if revenues in a particular quarter are below expectations, we are unlikely to reduce operating expenses proportionately for that quarter. these examples are only illustrative and other risks, including those discussed in these risk factors, could also cause fluctuations in our reported financial results. our operating results during any one period do not necessarily suggest the results of future periods. we expect that results from our clinical development activities and the clinical development activities of our competitors will continue to be released periodically, and may result in significant volatility in the price of our common stock. any new information regarding our products and drug candidates or competitive products or potentially competitive drug candidates can substantially affect investors' perceptions regarding our future prospects. we, our collaborators and our competitors periodically provide updates regarding drug development programs, typically through press releases, conference calls and presentations at medical conferences. these periodic updates often include interim or final results from clinical trials conducted by us or our competitors and/or information about our or our competitors' expectations regarding regulatory filings and submissions as well as future clinical development of our products or drug candidates, competitive products or potentially competitive drug candidates. the timing of the release of information by us regarding our drug development programs is often beyond our control and is influenced by the timing of receipt of data from our clinical trials and by the general preference among pharmaceutical companies to disclose clinical data during medical conferences. in addition, the information disclosed about our clinical trials, or our competitors' clinical trials, may be based on interim rather than final data that may involve interpretation difficulties and may in any event not accurately predict final results. changes in tax laws, regulations and treaties could affect our future taxable income. a change in tax laws, treaties or regulations, or their interpretation, of any country in which we operate could materially affect us if we generate taxable income in a future period. on december 22, 2017, the united states enacted h.r.1., known as the tax cuts and jobs act, which represented a substantial change to tax laws in the united states, but which did not have a material impact on our financial statements because we maintained a valuation allowance on the majority of our net operating losses and other deferred tax assets as of december 31, 2017, which was only released at the end of 2018. however, over the next several years we expect to utilize our net operating losses and other deferred assets, and any future changes in tax laws could have a material effect on our business. we continue to assess the impact of various tax reform proposals and modifications to existing tax treaties in all jurisdictions where we have operations to determine the potential effect on our business and any assumptions we have made about our future taxable income. we cannot predict whether any specific proposals will be enacted, the terms of any such proposals or what effect, if any, such proposals would have on our business if they were to be enacted. we may need to raise additional capital that may not be available. we may need to raise additional capital in the future. any potential public offering, private placement or debt financing may or may not be similar to the transactions that we entered into in the past. any debt financing may be on terms that, among other things, include conversion features that could result in dilution to our then-existing security holders and restrict our ability to pay interest and dividends although we do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. additionally, our pledge of specified assets as collateral to secure our obligations under our credit agreement may limit our ability to obtain additional debt financing. any equity financings would result in dilution to our then-existing security holders. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be required to curtail significantly or discontinue one or more of our research, drug discovery or development programs, including clinical trials, incur significant cash exit costs, or attempt to obtain funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, drugs or drug candidates. based on many factors, including general economic conditions, additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. future indebtedness could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, and the terms of our credit agreement impose restrictions on our business, reducing our operational flexibility and creating default risks. in october 2016, we entered into a credit agreement providing for a $500 million revolving facility, $300 million of which was drawn at closing and subsequently paid off in february 2017. the credit agreement provides that, subject to the 37 satisfaction of certain conditions, we may request that the borrowing capacity under the credit agreement be increased by an additional $300.0 million. all outstanding borrowings under the credit agreement mature on october 13, 2021. if we borrow under our current credit agreements or any future credit agreement, such indebtedness could have important consequences to our business, including increasing our vulnerability to general adverse financial, business, economic and industry conditions, as well as other factors that are beyond our control. the credit agreement requires that we comply with certain financial covenants, including (i) a consolidated leverage ratio covenant and (ii) a consolidated ebitda covenant, in each case to be measured on a quarterly basis. further, the credit agreement includes negative covenants, subject to exceptions, restricting or limiting our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, grant liens, engage in certain investment, acquisition and disposition transactions, pay dividends, repurchase capital stock and enter into transactions with affiliates. as a result, we may be restricted from engaging in business activities that may otherwise improve our business. failure to comply with the covenants could result in an event of default that could trigger acceleration of our indebtedness, which would require us to repay all amounts owing under the credit agreement and/or our capital leases and could have a material adverse effect on our business. additionally, our obligations under the credit agreement are unconditionally guaranteed by certain of our domestic subsidiaries. all obligations under the credit agreement, and the guarantees of those obligations, are secured by substantially all of our assets and the assets of all guarantors (excluding intellectual property, owned and leased real property and certain other excluded property), including the pledge of all or a portion of the equity interests of certain of our subsidiaries. if we fail to satisfy our obligations under the credit agreement or are unable to obtain sufficient funds to make payments, the lenders could foreclose on our pledged collateral. issuances of additional shares of our common stock could cause the price of our common stock to decline. as of december 31, 2018 , we had 255.2 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. as of december 31, 2018 , we also had outstanding options to purchase 8.6 million shares of common stock with a weighted-average exercise price of $111.46 per share. outstanding vested options are likely to be exercised if the market price of our common stock exceeds the applicable exercise price, and, in the future, we expect to issue additional options and restricted stock units to directors and employees. in addition, we may issue additional common stock or restricted securities in the future as part of financing activities or business development activities and any such issuances may have a dilutive effect on our then-existing shareholders. sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market, or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. the issuance of restricted common stock or common stock upon exercise of any outstanding options would be dilutive, and may cause the market price for a share of our common stock to decline. there can be no assurance that we will repurchase shares of common stock or that we will repurchase shares at favorable prices. our board of directors has authorized a share repurchase program of up to $500 million to repurchase shares of our common stock. our stock repurchases will depend upon, among other factors, our cash balances and potential future capital requirements, results of operations, financial condition and other factors that we may deem relevant. we can provide no assurance that we will repurchase stock at favorable prices, if at all. we have adopted anti-takeover provisions and are subject to massachusetts corporate laws that may frustrate any attempt to remove or replace our current management or effectuate a business combination involving vertex. our corporate charter and by-law provisions and massachusetts state laws may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change of control of vertex that might be beneficial to us or our security holders. although we amended our charter to eliminate staggered terms for our board of directors, our shareholders will not have the ability to vote for all members of the board of directors on an annual basis until 2020. our by-laws grant the directors a right to adjourn annual meetings of shareholders, and certain provisions of our by-laws may be amended only with an 80% shareholder vote. we may issue shares of any class or series of preferred stock in the future without shareholder approval and upon such terms as our board of directors may determine. the rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any class or series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. massachusetts state law prohibits us from engaging in specified business combinations, unless the combination is approved or consummated in a prescribed manner, and prohibits voting by any shareholder who acquires 20% or more of our voting stock without shareholder approval. as a result, shareholders or other parties may find it more difficult to remove or replace our current management. 38 special note regarding forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k and, in particular, the description of our business set forth in item 1, the risk factors set forth in this item 1a and our management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations set forth in item 7 contain or incorporate a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding: our expectations regarding the amount of, timing of and trends with respect to our revenues, costs and expenses and other gains and losses, including those related to our cf net product revenues; our expectations regarding clinical trials, development timelines and regulatory authority filings and submissions for ivacaftor, lumacaftor, tezacaftor, vx-659, vx-445, vx-150 and the timelines for regulatory filings for a triple combination regimen; our ability to obtain reimbursement for our medicines in ex-u.s. markets and our ability to otherwise successfully market our medicines or any drug candidates for which we obtain regulatory approval; our expectations regarding the timing and structure of clinical trials of our drugs and drug candidates and the expected timing of our receipt of data from our ongoing and planned clinical trials; the data that will be generated by ongoing and planned clinical trials and the ability to use that data to advance compounds, continue development or support regulatory filings; our beliefs regarding the support provided by clinical trials and preclinical and nonclinical studies of our drug candidates for further investigation, clinical trials or potential use as a treatment; our plan to continue investing in our research and development programs and our strategy to develop our drug candidates, alone or with third party-collaborators; the establishment, development and maintenance of collaborative relationships; potential business development activities; potential fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; our ability to use our research programs to identify and develop new drug candidates to address serious diseases and significant unmet medical needs; and our liquidity and our expectations regarding the possibility of raising additional capital. any or all of our forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k may turn out to be wrong. they can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. many factors mentioned in this annual report on form 10-k will be important in determining future results. consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. actual future results may vary materially from expected results. we also provide a cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties under risk factors above in this item 1a. these are factors and uncertainties that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results. other factors and uncertainties besides those listed there could also adversely affect us. without limiting the foregoing, the words believes, anticipates, plans, intends, expects and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. there are a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control, including the factors and uncertainties set forth under risk factors above in this item 1a. in addition, the forward-looking statements contained herein represent our estimate only as of the date of this filing and should not be relied upon as representing our estimate as of any subsequent date. while we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk as part of our investment portfolio, we own financial instruments that are sensitive to market risks. the investment portfolio is used to preserve our capital until it is required to fund operations, including our research and development 62 activities. none of these market risk-sensitive instruments are held for trading purposes. we do not have derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. interest rate risk we invest our cash in a variety of financial instruments, principally securities issued by the u.s. government and its agencies, investment-grade corporate bonds and commercial paper, and money market funds. these investments are denominated in u.s. dollars. all of our interest-bearing securities are subject to interest rate risk and could decline in value if interest rates fluctuate. substantially all of our investment portfolio consists of marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to help ensure portfolio liquidity, and we have implemented guidelines limiting the term-to-maturity of our investment instruments. due to the conservative nature of these instruments, we do not believe that we have a material exposure to interest rate risk. if interest rates were to increase or decrease by 1%, the fair value of our investment portfolio would increase or decrease by an immaterial amount. in 2016, we entered into a credit agreement. loans under the credit agreement bear interest, at our option, at either a base rate or a eurodollar rate, in each case plus an applicable margin. the applicable margin on base rate loans ranges from 0.75% to 1.50% and the applicable margin on eurodollar loans ranges from 1.75% to 2.50%, in each case, based on our consolidated leverage ratio (as defined in the credit agreement). we do not believe that changes in interest rates related to the credit agreement would have a material effect on our financial statements. as of december 31, 2018 , we had no principal or interest outstanding. a portion of our interest expense, net in 2019 will be dependent on whether, and to what extent, we reborrow amounts under the existing facility. foreign exchange market risk as a result of our foreign operations, we face exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the euro and british pound against the u.s. dollar. the current exposures arise primarily from cash, accounts receivable, intercompany receivables and payables, payables and accruals and inventories. both positive and negative effects to our net revenues from international product sales from movements in exchange rates are partially mitigated by the natural, opposite effect that exchange rates have on our international operating costs and expenses. we have a foreign currency management program with the objective of reducing the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results and forecasted revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies. we currently have cash flow hedges for the euro, british pound, canadian dollar and australian dollar related to a portion of our forecasted product revenues that qualify for hedge accounting treatment under u.s. gaap. we do not seek hedge accounting treatment for our foreign currency forward contracts related to monetary assets and liabilities that impact our operating results. as of december 31, 2018 , we held foreign exchange forward contracts that were designated as cash flow hedges with notional amounts totaling $505.2 million and had a net fair value of $20.1 million recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. although not predictive in nature, we believe a hypothetical 10% threshold reflects a reasonably possible near-term change in exchange rates. assuming that the december 31, 2018 exchange rates were to change by a hypothetical 10%, the fair value recorded on our consolidated balance sheet related to our foreign exchange forward contracts that were designated as cash flow hedges as of december 31, 2018 would change by approximately $50.5 million . however, since these contracts hedge a specific portion of our forecasted product revenues denominated in certain foreign currencies, any change in the fair value of these contracts is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on our consolidated balance sheet and is reclassified to earnings in the same periods during which the underlying product revenues affect earnings. therefore, any change in the fair value of these contracts that would result from a hypothetical 10% change in exchange rates would be entirely offset by the change in value associated with the underlying hedged product revenues resulting in no impact on our future anticipated earnings and cash flows with respect to the hedged portion of our forecasted product revenues.risk factors 21 risk factors risk factors investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk, and you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k. if any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer, possibly materially. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. risks related to our business all of our product revenues and the vast majority of our total revenues are derived from sales of medicines for the treatment of cf. if we are unable to continue to increase revenues from sales of our cf medicines, our business would be materially harmed and the market price of our common stock would likely decline. our net product revenues and the vast majority of our total revenues are derived from the sale of cf medicines. as a result, our future success is dependent upon our ability to increase revenues from sales of our cf medicines. this will require us to gain approval and reimbursement for our triple combination therapy in ex-u.s. markets and successfully develop and commercialize our triple combination therapy for patients with cf less than 12 years of age. our concentrated source of revenues presents a number of risks to our business, including: that one or more competing therapies may successfully be developed as a treatment for patients with cf; that reimbursement policies of payors and other third parties may make it difficult to obtain reimbursement or reduce the net price we receive for our products; that we may experience manufacturing or supply disruptions for our cf medicines; and that we may experience adverse developments with respect to development or commercialization of our cf medicines and/or cf drug candidates. if one or more of the above risks were to materialize, if we are otherwise unable to increase or maintain revenues from sales of our cf medicines, or if we do not meet the expectations of investors or public equity market analysts, our business would be materially harmed and our ability to fund research and development programs for the discovery and development or acquisition of new products would be harmed, which would limit our ability to diversify our revenue base and our stock price would likely be adversely affected. we are investing significant resources in the research and development of therapies for serious diseases other than cf, and if we are unable to successfully commercialize one or more of these therapies, our business could be materially harmed. we are investing significant resources in the research and development of medicines for serious diseases including alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency, apol1-mediated kidney diseases, pain, beta-thalassemia, sickle cell disease, type 1 diabetes, dmd and dm1. some of these programs have progressed into early-stage clinical trials, while others are still in pre-clinical development. product development is highly uncertain and expensive, and product candidates that may appear promising in the early phases of research and development may fail to reach commercial success for many reasons, including the failure to demonstrate acceptable clinical trial results or obtain marketing approval, the inability to manufacture or commercialize the product candidate on economically feasible terms, or the appearance of safety issues. even if we gain marketing approval for one or more pipeline products, we cannot be sure that we will obtain market acceptance or adequate reimbursement levels from third-party payors or foreign governments for such products. additionally, many of the therapies that we are developing in our pipeline target rare diseases with a limited number of patients. there can be no guarantee that we will effectively identify patients that are eligible for enrollment in our clinical trials or treatment with our drug candidates. even if we do successfully identify eligible patients, the number of patients that our drug candidates are able to treat may turn out to be lower than we expect or new patients may become increasingly difficult to identify, each of which may adversely affect our revenues and materially harm our business. for these and other reasons, we may never be successful in expanding our pipeline and future revenue may continue to depend on sales of our cf medicines. 21 we have experienced challenges commercializing products outside of the united states, and our future revenues will be dependent on our ability to obtain adequate reimbursement for our products. in most ex-u.s. markets, the pricing and reimbursement of therapeutic and other pharmaceutical products is subject to governmental control. given recent global economic pressures and geopolitical uncertainty, government authorities throughout the world are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of drug products. the reimbursement process in ex-u.s. markets can take a significant period of time and reimbursement decisions are made on a country-by-country basis. our medicines treat life-threatening conditions and address relatively small patient populations and our research and development programs are primarily focused on developing medicines to treat similar diseases. particular attention is being paid by payors, including government and private payors, to these types of medicines given the relative higher cost of these products as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products, and countries are increasingly refusing to reimburse costly medicines. we have experienced challenges in obtaining reimbursement for orkambi in various countries outside the united states, including the united kingdom and france. for example, we obtained reimbursement for orkambi and symkevi in england in the fourth quarter of 2019, four years after orkambi's initial approval in 2015. our future product revenues, including from orkambi, symkevi, and trikafta, depend on, among other things, our ability to complete reimbursement discussions in ex-u.s. markets for our products. there is no assurance that coverage and reimbursement will be available outside of the united states for our cf or future medicines, and, even if it is available, whether the timing or the level of reimbursement will be sufficient to allow us to market our medicines. adverse pricing limitations or a delay in obtaining coverage and reimbursement would decrease our future net product revenues and harm our business. if our competitors bring drugs with superior product profiles to market, our drugs may not be competitive and our revenues could decline. a number of companies are seeking to identify and develop drug candidates for the treatment of cf and other therapeutic areas we are targeting with our research and development activities. our success in rapidly developing and commercializing our cf medicines may increase the resources that our competitors allocate to the development of potential competitive treatments. if one or more competing therapies are successfully developed as a treatment for patients with cf or any of the other diseases we are currently targeting in our pipeline, our products and our net product revenues could face competitive pressures. if one or more competing therapies prove to be superior to our then existing products and/or drug candidates, our business could be materially adversely affected. in addition, our business faces competition from major pharmaceutical companies possessing substantially greater financial resources than we possess. we also face competition from numerous smaller public and private companies, academic institutions, government agencies, public and private research organizations and charitable venture philanthropy organizations that conduct research, seek patent protection and/or establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and commercialization. mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may result in even more resources being concentrated among a smaller number of our competitors. smaller and other early-stage companies also may prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. these third parties compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to, or necessary for, our programs. our products and any drugs that we develop in the future may not be able to compete effectively with marketed drugs or new drugs that may be developed by competitors. the risk of competition is particularly important to our company because substantially all of our revenues as well as our most advanced drug candidates are related to the treatment of patients with cf. there are many other companies developing drugs for the same patient populations that we are pursuing. in order to compete successfully in these areas, we must demonstrate improved safety, efficacy and/or tolerability, ease of manufacturing, and gain and maintain market acceptance over competing drugs. if we discover safety issues with any of our products or if we fail to comply with continuing u.s. and applicable foreign regulations, commercialization efforts for the product could be negatively affected, the approved product could lose its approval or sales could be suspended, and our business could be materially harmed. our products are subject to continuing regulatory oversight, including the review of additional safety information. drugs are more widely used by patients once approval has been obtained and therefore side effects and other problems may be observed after approval that were not seen or anticipated, or were not as prevalent or severe, during pre-approval clinical 22 trials or nonclinical studies. the subsequent discovery of previously unknown or underestimated problems with a product could negatively affect commercial sales of the product, result in restrictions on the product or lead to the withdrawal of the product from the market. three of our commercial products are combination products, and each of our products shares at least one active pharmaceutical ingredient with another of our products. as a result, if any of our cystic fibrosis products were to experience safety issues, our other cystic fibrosis products may be adversely affected. the reporting of adverse safety events involving our products or public speculation about such events could cause our stock price to decline or experience periods of volatility. in addition, we and our third-party manufacturers must comply with gmp and other applicable regulations governing the manufacturing and distribution of our products. regulatory authorities periodically inspect our drug manufacturing facilities, and those of our third-party manufacturers, to evaluate compliance with gmp requirements. if we or our collaborators, or third-parties acting on our behalf, fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we or our collaborators may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals for specific products, product recalls and seizures, operating restrictions and/or criminal prosecutions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. if physicians and patients do not accept our drugs, or if patients do not remain on treatment or comply with their prescribed dosing regimen, our product revenues would be materially harmed in future periods. our drugs may not gain or maintain market acceptance among physicians and patients. effectively marketing our drugs and any of our drug candidates, if approved, requires substantial efforts, both prior to launch and after approval. physicians may elect not to prescribe our drugs, and patients may elect not to take them or may discontinue use of our drugs after initiation of treatment, for a variety of reasons including: prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; lack of reimbursement availability from third-party payors, including governmental entities; lower demonstrated efficacy, safety and/or tolerability compared to alternative treatment methods; lack of cost-effectiveness; a decision to wait for the approval of other therapies in development that have significant perceived advantages over our drug; convenience and ease of administration; other potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; and ineffective sales, marketing and/or distribution support. if our drugs fail to achieve or maintain market acceptance, we may not be able to generate significant revenues in future periods. government and other third-party payors seek to contain costs of health care through legislative and other means. if they fail to provide coverage and adequate reimbursement rates for our products, our revenues will be harmed. our sales of products depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. third-party payors include government health programs such as medicare and medicaid in the united states and the national health care systems in many international markets, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. the trend in the health care industry is cost containment, and efforts of third-party payors to contain or reduce health care costs may adversely affect our ability to establish or maintain appropriate prices for our products or any drugs that we may develop and commercialize. in most ex-u.s. markets, the pricing and reimbursement of therapeutic and other pharmaceutical products is subject to governmental control, and such government authorities are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of drug products. in the united states, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement governmental controls that are similar to those that currently exist in europe. for example, the aca required manufacturers of medicare part d brand name drugs to provide discounts on those drugs to medicare part d beneficiaries during the coverage gap; increased the rebates paid by pharmaceutical companies to state medicaid programs on drugs covered by medicaid; and imposed an annual fee, which increases annually, on sales by branded pharmaceutical manufacturers. 23 third-party payors throughout the world also have been attempting to control drug spending through various other actions. in reimbursement negotiations, many payers are imposing price discounts and caps on total expenditures, and limiting both the types and variety of drugs that they will cover if they are not able to secure them. as part of these negotiations, many ex-u.s. government payers also are requiring companies to establish product cost-effectiveness as a condition of reimbursement and companies' data-backed explanations are assessed by government agencies set up for this purpose. these cost-effectiveness reviews may not account for many of the benefits provided by innovative medicines, and for the most part, have not taken into account the specific circumstances of products that treat rare diseases. this has led to conclusions that certain medicines, including our products in certain jurisdictions, are not cost effective. as a result, certain countries have declined to reimburse, or delayed their reimbursement of, some of our products. although not mandated in the united states, various organizations have started advocating for cost-effectiveness analyses in the united states. if u.s. payors were to adopt such assessments and make negative coverage determinations, it could adversely affect our product revenues. there is also an increase in laws, regulations, and activity related to drug pricing and drug pricing transparency. in the united states, various states, including nevada, maryland, louisiana, new york, california, washington, massachusetts, connecticut, and oregon, have passed legislation requiring companies to disclose significant amounts of information, including information relating to drug prices, drug price increases, and spending on research, development, and marketing. although it is not clear what states ultimately will do with the information collected, some laws were designed to obtain additional product discounts, and we likely will continue to see more state action, which could require further disclosures or other actions. complying with these laws requires significant personnel and operational resources and deters focus on our business. additionally, any additional required discounts would adversely affect the pricing of, and revenues from, our products. finally, while we seek to comply with all statutory and regulatory requirements, we face increased enforcement activity by the u.s. federal government, state governments, and private payors against pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for pricing and reimbursement-related issues. in addition, in the united states and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals and initiatives to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell products. for example, in the united states, there have been ongoing federal legislative and administrative efforts as well as legal challenges seeking to repeal, substantially modify or invalidate some or all of the provisions of the aca. tax legislation enacted at the end of 2017 eliminated the tax penalty for individuals who do not maintain sufficient health insurance coverage beginning in 2019. the bipartisan budget act of 2018 contained various provisions that affect coverage and reimbursement of drugs, including an increase in the discount that manufacturers of medicare part d brand name drugs must provide to medicare part d beneficiaries during the coverage gap from 50% to 70%, which started in 2019. there are also a number of bills pending in congress that would affect drug pricing in the medicare and medicaid programs, and hhs recently issued a proposed rule and fda issued guidance on how pharmaceuticals could be imported into the united states from canada. as a result, there is uncertainty regarding future changes in the laws and regulations applicable to the health care system and the effect any such changes may have on our business. some of these proposed and implemented reforms have resulted, or could result, in reduced reimbursement rates and/or more limited access for our current or future products, which would adversely affect our business, operations and financial results. the increasing availability and use of innovative specialty pharmaceuticals for rare diseases, combined with their relative higher cost as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products, is generating significant third-party payor interest in developing cost-containment strategies targeted to this sector. government regulations in both u.s. and ex-u.s. markets could further limit the prices that can be charged for our products and may limit our commercial opportunity. the increasing use of cost-effectiveness assessments in markets around the world and the financial challenges faced by many governments may lead to significant adverse effects on our business. any legislation or regulatory changes or relaxation of laws that restrict imports of drugs from other countries, revisions to reimbursement or pharmaceuticals under government programs or general budget control actions also could reduce the net price we receive for our products. we have limited experience developing genetic and cell-based therapies and could experience challenges with these programs, which could result in delays or prevent the development and commercialization of our genetic and cell-based therapies. we are investing significant financial and other resources in the research and development of genetic and cell-based therapies. while we have previously successfully developed, manufactured and commercialized several small molecule drugs, we have limited experience with the development, manufacture and commercialization of genetic and cell-based 24 therapies. development and commercialization of genetic and cell-based therapies are subject to all of the same risks and uncertainties as development and commercializing small molecules. in addition: the manufacturing processes for genetic and cell-based therapies are typically more complex and challenging than the manufacturing processes required for small molecule drugs, require different systems, equipment and facilities and require different expertise to develop and maintain; there have been a limited number of fda approvals for genetic therapies to date, the regulatory requirements governing genetic therapies are continuing to evolve and current and future regulatory positions and interpretations could lead to delays with respect to our genetic therapy programs; and our cell-based therapies include approaches involving devices, which are subject to additional regulatory requirements. if we are not able to successfully develop or commercialize genetic or cell-based therapies, we will not realize benefits or generate cash flows based on our investments in these programs. if regulatory authorities interpret any of our conduct, including our marketing practices, as being in violation of applicable health care laws, including fraud and abuse laws, laws prohibiting off-label promotion, disclosure laws or other similar laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. we are subject to health care fraud and abuse laws, such as the federal false claims act and anti-kickback laws, which prohibit off-label product promotion and other similar laws and regulations both in united states and in non-u.s. markets. while we have a corporate compliance program which, together with our policies and procedures, is designed to actively identify, prevent and mitigate risk through the implementation of compliance policies and systems and the promotion of a culture of compliance, if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws and regulations, our business could be materially harmed. the federal anti-kickback law prohibits knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the ordering, furnishing, arranging for or recommending of an item or service that is reimbursable, in whole or in part, by a federal health care program, such as medicare or medicaid. the federal statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, patients, purchasers and formulary managers on the other hand, and therefore constrains our marketing practices and our various service arrangements with physicians, including physicians who make clinical decisions to use our products. although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly and have been interpreted by courts as such. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in promotion for uses that the fda has not approved, known as off-label uses, that caused claims to be submitted to medicaid for those off-label uses; submitting inflated best price information to the medicaid rebate program; and certain manufacturing-related violations. the scope of this and other laws may expand in ways that make compliance more difficult and expensive. although physicians are permitted, based on their medical judgment, to prescribe products for indications other than those approved by the fda, manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products for such off-label uses. we market our products to eligible cf patients for whom the applicable product has been approved and provide promotional materials and training programs to physicians regarding the use of each product in these patient populations. these eligible patients do not represent all patients with cf. if the fda determines that our promotional materials, training or other activities constitute off-label promotion, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or other activities, conduct corrective advertising or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. it also is possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they believe that the alleged improper promotion led to the submission and payment of claims for an off-label use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. even if it is later determined we were not in violation of these laws, we may be faced with negative publicity, incur significant expenses defending our actions and have to divert significant management resources from other matters. 25 in recent years, legislation has been adopted at the federal, state and local level requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, health care provider payments and other activities. for example, as part of the aca, the federal government enacted the physician payments sunshine act (referred to as the sunshine act). the sunshine act requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to report annually to the centers for medicare and medicaid services payments or other transfers of value made by that entity to physicians and teaching hospitals (and additional categories of health care practitioners beginning with reports submitted on or after january 1, 2022). we also now have similar reporting obligations throughout the european union, or the e.u. we expended significant efforts to establish, and are continuing to devote significant resources to maintain and enhance, systems and processes in order to comply with these regulations. requirements to track and disclose financial interactions with health care providers and organizations increase government and public scrutiny of these financial interactions. failure to comply with the reporting requirements could result in significant civil monetary penalties. the sales and marketing practices of our industry have been the subject of increased scrutiny from governmental entities in the united sates and other countries in which we market our products, and we believe that this trend will continue. the risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are subject to a variety of interpretations. if our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any such laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from federal health care programs and/or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, also could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. there is also enhanced scrutiny of company-sponsored patient assistance programs, including insurance premium and co-pay assistance programs and donations to third-party charities that provide such assistance. if we, or our vendors or donation recipients are deemed to fail to comply with relevant laws, regulations or government guidance in the operation of these programs, we could be subject to significant fines and penalties. if we fail to comply with our reporting and payment obligations under the medicaid drug rebate program or other governmental pricing programs in the u.s., we could be subject to additional reimbursement requirements, penalties, sanctions and fines which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. we participate in the medicaid drug rebate program and a number of other federal and state government pricing programs in the u.s. in order to obtain coverage for our products by certain government health care programs. these programs would generally require us to pay rebates or provide discounts to certain private purchasers or government payers in connection with our products when dispensed to beneficiaries of these programs. in some cases, such as with the medicaid drug rebate program, the rebates are based on pricing and rebate calculations that we report on a monthly and quarterly basis to the government agencies that administer the programs. the terms, scope and complexity of these government pricing programs change frequently. we may also have reimbursement obligations or be subject to penalties if we fail to provide timely and accurate information to the government, pay the correct rebates or offer the correct discounted pricing. changes to the price reporting or rebate requirements of these programs would affect our obligations to pay rebates or offer discounts. responding to current and future changes may increase our costs and the complexity of compliance, will be time-consuming, and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we are subject to various and evolving laws and regulations governing the privacy and security of personal information, and our failure to comply could adversely affect our business, result in fines and/or criminal penalties, and damage our reputation. we are subject to data privacy and security laws and regulations in various jurisdictions that apply to the collection, transmission, storage and use of personal information, including health information, and impose significant compliance obligations. in addition, numerous other federal and state laws, including state security breach notification laws, state health information privacy laws and federal and state consumer protection laws, govern the collection, use, disclosure and security of personal information. the legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve, and there has been an increasing focus on privacy and data protection issues with the potential to affect our business. for example, the e.u. general data protection regulation, or gdpr, went into effect in may 2018 and has imposed new obligations on us with respect to our processing of personal data and the cross-border transfer of such data, including higher standards of obtaining consent, more robust transparency requirements, data breach notification requirements, requirements for contractual language with our data processors, and stronger individual data rights. in the united states, california has passed the california consumer privacy act, which went into effect on january 1, 2020, and several states and the federal 26 government are actively considering proposed legislation governing the protection of personal data. additionally, brazil has passed the general data protection law (lgpd), which is set to go into effect in august 2020. while we continue to address the implications of the new data privacy regulations, data privacy remains an evolving landscape at both the domestic and international level, with new regulations coming into effect and continued legal challenges and our efforts to comply with the evolving data protection rules may be unsuccessful. each law is also subject to various interpretations by courts and regulatory agencies, creating even more uncertainty. we must devote significant resources to understanding and complying with this changing landscape. failure to comply with laws regarding data protection would expose us to risk of enforcement actions taken by data protection authorities, private rights of action in some jurisdictions, and the potential for significant penalties if we are found to be non-compliant. for example, failure to comply with the gdpr and applicable national data protection laws of european economic area member states could lead to fines of up to 20,000,000 or up to 4% of the total worldwide annual revenue of the preceding financial year, whichever is higher. some of these laws and regulations also carry the possibility of criminal sanctions. for example, while we are not directly subject to the health insurance portability and accountability act of 1996, as amended by the health information technology for economic and clinical health act, or hipaa, we could be subject to penalties, including criminal penalties if we knowingly obtain or disclose individually identifiable health information from a hipaa-covered health care provider or research institution that has not complied with hipaa's requirements for disclosing such information. even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could harm our business and our reputation. the ema has adopted a policy on publication of clinical data whereby it will publish clinical reports submitted as part of maas for drugs. the ema aims to publish reports within 60 days after a decision on the application has been made by the european commission. the ability of third-parties to review and/or analyze the raw data from our clinical trials may increase the risk of patient confidentiality breaches and could result in enhanced scrutiny of our clinical trials results. such scrutiny could result in misconceptions being spread about our drugs and drug candidates, even if the underlying analysis of such review turns out to be flawed. these publications could also result in the disclosure of information to our competitors that we might otherwise deem confidential, which could harm our competitive position. the use of social media platforms presents risks and challenges. social media is being used by third parties to communicate about our products and drug candidates and the diseases our therapies are designed to treat. we believe that members of the cf community may be more active on social media as compared to other patient populations due to the demographics of this patient population. social media practices in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries are evolving, which creates uncertainty and risk of noncompliance with regulations applicable to our business. for example, patients may use social media platforms to comment on the effectiveness of, or adverse experiences with, a drug or a drug candidate, which could result in reporting obligations. in addition, our employees may engage on social media in ways that may not comply with our social media policy or with legal or regulatory requirements, which may give rise to liability, lead to the loss of trade secrets and other intellectual property, or result in public disclosure of protected personal information. there is a risk of inappropriate disclosure of sensitive information or negative or inaccurate posts or comments about us on any social networking website. certain data protection regulations, such as the gdpr in the eu, also apply to personal data contained on social media. if any of these events were to occur or we otherwise fail to comply with applicable regulations, we could incur liability, face restrictive regulatory actions or incur other harm to our business, including damage to our reputation. risks related to development, clinical testing and regulation of our products and drug candidates our drug candidates remain subject to clinical testing and regulatory approval. our future success is dependent on our ability to successfully develop additional drug candidates for both cf and non-cf indications. our business depends upon the successful development and commercialization of drug candidates. these drug candidates are in various stages of development and must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before they can be approved for sale by the fda or comparable foreign regulatory authorities. to satisfy these standards, we must allocate resources among our various development programs and must engage in expensive and lengthy testing of our drug candidates. discovery and development efforts for new pharmaceutical products, including new combination therapies, are resource-intensive and may take 10 to 15 years or longer for each drug candidate. despite our efforts, our drug candidates may not: offer therapeutic or other improvement over existing competitive therapies; 27 show the level of safety and efficacy, including the level of statistical significance, required by the fda or other regulatory authorities for approval of a drug candidate; meet applicable regulatory standards; be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs; or if approved for commercial sale, be successfully marketed as pharmaceutical products. we have recently completed and/or have ongoing or planned clinical trials for several of our drug candidates. the strength of our company's product portfolio and pipeline will depend in large part upon the outcomes of these clinical trials, including clinical trials evaluating our triple combination therapy in younger patients with cf and our earlier-stage clinical trials of potential medicines to treat other diseases. results of our clinical trials and findings from our nonclinical studies, including toxicology findings in nonclinical studies conducted concurrently with clinical trials, could lead to abrupt changes in our development activities, including the possible cessation of development activities associated with a particular drug candidate or program. moreover, clinical data are often susceptible to varying interpretations, and many companies that have believed their drug candidates performed satisfactorily in clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain marketing approval of their drug candidate. furthermore, results from our clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance or otherwise provide the level of evidence or safety and efficacy required by the fda or other regulatory authorities for approval of a drug candidate. many companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including our company, have suffered significant setbacks in later-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in earlier-stage clinical trials. for example, the results from completed preclinical studies and clinical trials may not be replicated in later clinical trials, and ongoing clinical trials for our drug candidates may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later-stage clinical trials or of the likelihood of approval of a drug candidate for commercial sale. in addition, from time to time we report interim data from our clinical trials. interim data from a clinical trial may not be predictive of final results from the clinical trial. if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval, we will be unable to commercialize our drug candidates. the time required to complete clinical trials and to satisfy the fda and other countries' regulatory review processes is uncertain and typically takes many years. our analysis of data obtained from nonclinical and clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. we also may encounter unanticipated delays or increased costs due to government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in governmental policy during the period of drug development, clinical trials and governmental regulatory review. we may seek a fast track and/or breakthrough therapy designation for some of our drug candidates. drug candidates that receive one or both of these designations may be eligible for, among other things, a priority regulatory review. each of these designations is within the discretion of the fda. accordingly, even if we believe one of our drug candidates meets the criteria for fast track and/or breakthrough therapy designation, the fda may disagree and instead determine not to make such designation. the receipt of one or both of these designations for a drug candidate does not guarantee a faster development process, review or approval compared to drugs developed or considered for approval under conventional fda procedures and does not assure ultimate approval by the fda. in addition, even if one or more of our drugs or drug candidates qualifies for fast track and/or breakthrough therapy designation, the fda may later decide to withdraw such designation if it determines that the drug or drug candidate no longer meets the conditions for qualification. any failure to obtain regulatory approvals for a drug candidate would prevent us from commercializing that drug candidate. any delay in obtaining required regulatory approvals could materially adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize a drug candidate. furthermore, any regulatory approval to market a drug may be subject to limitations that we do not expect on the indicated uses for which we may market the drug. any such limitations could reduce the size or demand of the market for the drug. we also are subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement. non-u.s. jurisdictions have different approval procedures than those required by the fda, and these jurisdictions may impose additional testing requirements for our drug candidates. the foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with the fda approval process described above, as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of foreign requirements. approval by the fda does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities outside the united states and approval by a foreign regulatory authority does not 28 ensure approval by the fda. in addition, although the fda may accept data from clinical trials conducted outside the united states, acceptance of this data is subject to conditions imposed by the fda. for example, the clinical trial must be well designed and conducted and performed by qualified investigators in accordance with ethical principles. the trial population also must adequately represent the u.s. population, and the data must be applicable to the u.s. population and u.s. medical practice in ways that the fda deems clinically meaningful. in addition, while these clinical trials are subject to applicable local laws, fda acceptance of the data will depend on its determination that the trials also complied with all applicable u.s. laws and regulations. if the fda does not accept the data from any trial that we conduct outside the united states, it would likely result in the need for additional trials, which would be costly and time-consuming and delay or permanently halt our development of the applicable drug candidate. if clinical trials are prolonged or delayed, our development timelines for the affected development program could be extended, our costs to develop the drug candidate could increase and the competitive position of the drug candidate could be adversely affected. we cannot predict whether or not we will encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause us or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend clinical trials, or delay the analysis of data from our completed or ongoing clinical trials. among the factors that could delay our development programs are: ongoing discussions with the fda or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials and the number of clinical trials we must conduct; delays in enrolling volunteers or patients into clinical trials, including as a result of low numbers of patients that meet the eligibility criteria for the trial; a lower than anticipated retention rate of volunteers or patients in clinical trials; the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive results, unforeseen complications in testing or clinical investigator error; inadequate supply or deficient quality of drug candidate materials or other materials necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials; unfavorable fda or foreign regulatory authority inspection and review of a manufacturing facility that supplied clinical trial materials or its relevant manufacturing records or a clinical trial site or records of any clinical or preclinical investigation; unfavorable scientific results from clinical trials; serious and unexpected drug-related side-effects experienced by participants in our clinical trials or by participants in clinical trials being conducted by our competitors to evaluate drug candidates with similar mechanisms of action or structures to drug candidates that we are developing; favorable results in testing of our competitors' drug candidates, or fda or foreign regulatory authority approval of our competitors' drug candidates; or action by the fda or a foreign regulatory authority to place a clinical hold or partial clinical hold on a trial or compound or deeming the clinical trial conduct as problematic. our ability to enroll patients in our clinical trials in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis is subject to a number of factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the number of other clinical trials ongoing and competing for patients in the same indication and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. in addition, patients may drop out of our clinical trials or may be lost to follow-up medical evaluation after treatment ends, and this could impair the validity or statistical significance of the trials. delays in patient enrollment or unforeseen drop-out rates may result in increased costs and longer development times. we, our collaborators, the fda or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a drug candidate at any time if we or they believe the healthy volunteers or patients participating in such clinical trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. any such suspension could materially adversely affect the development of a particular drug candidate and our business. 29 if our processes and systems are not compliant with regulatory requirements, we could be subject to restrictions on marketing our products or could be delayed in submitting regulatory filings seeking approvals for our drug candidates. we have a number of regulated processes and systems that are required both prior to and following approval of our drugs and drug candidates. these processes and systems are subject to continual review and periodic inspection by the fda and other regulatory bodies. in addition, the clinical research organizations and other third parties that we work with in our non-clinical studies and clinical trials and our oversight of such parties are subject to similar reviews and periodic inspection by the fda and other regulatory bodies. if compliance issues are identified at any point in the development and approval process, we may experience delays in filing for regulatory approval for our drug candidates, or delays in obtaining regulatory approval after filing, if at all. any later discovery of previously unknown problems or safety issues with approved drugs or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in restrictions on such drugs or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of drugs from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal penalties or a refusal by the fda and/or other regulatory bodies to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we are party to agreements that transfer responsibility for complying with specified regulatory requirements, such as filing and maintenance of marketing authorizations and safety reporting or compliance with manufacturing requirements, to our collaborators and third-party manufacturers. if our collaborators or third-party manufacturers do not fulfill these regulatory obligations, any drugs for which we or they obtain approval may be subject to later restrictions on manufacturing or sale, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. risks related to business development activities our ability to execute on our long-term strategy depends in part on our ability to engage in transactions and collaborations with other entities that add to our pipeline or provide us with new commercial opportunities. in order to achieve our long-term business objectives, we seek to license or acquire drugs, drug candidates and other technologies that have the potential to complement our ongoing research and development efforts, access emerging technologies and license or acquire pipeline assets with a focus on early-stage assets. we have faced and will continue to face significant competition for the acquisition of rights to these types of drugs, drug candidates and other technologies from a variety of other companies, many of which have significantly more financial resources and experience in business development activities than we have. in addition, non-profit organizations may be willing to provide capital to the companies that control additional drugs, drug candidates or technologies, which may provide incentives for companies to advance these drugs, drug candidates or technologies independently. also, the cost of acquiring, in-licensing or otherwise obtaining rights to such drugs, drug candidates or other technologies has grown dramatically in recent years and may be at levels that we cannot afford or that we believe are not justified by market potential. as a result, we may not be able to acquire, in-license or otherwise obtain rights to additional drugs, drug candidates or other technologies on acceptable terms or at all. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions of business or technologies, and the integration following any such acquisition may disrupt our business and management. it is challenging to effectively integrate businesses and technologies that we acquire, including the acquisitions of semma and exonics and exclusive licenses that we have acquired from crispr, and we may not realize the benefits anticipated from such transactions. achieving the anticipated benefits of any transaction and successfully integrating acquired businesses or technologies involves a number of risks, including: failure to successfully develop and commercialize the acquired drugs, drug candidates or technologies or to achieve other strategic objectives; delays or inability to progress preclinical programs into clinical development or unfavorable data from clinical trials evaluating the acquired or licensed drug or drug candidates; difficulty in integrating the drugs, drug candidates, technologies, business operations and personnel of an acquired asset or company; disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of our management and employees from daily operations or other opportunities and challenges; the potential loss of key employees of an acquired company; entry into markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience or where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; 30 potential failure of the due diligence processes to identify significant problems, liabilities or challenges of an acquired company, or acquired or licensed drug, drug candidate or technology, including but not limited to, problems, liabilities or challenges with respect to intellectual property, clinical or non-clinical data, safety, accounting practices, employee, or third party relations and other known and unknown liabilities; liability for activities of the acquired company or licensor before the acquisition or license, including intellectual property infringement claims, violations of laws, commercial disputes, tax liabilities, and other known and unknown liabilities; exposure to litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risk as a result of an acquisition or license, including but not limited to, claims from terminated employees, customers, former equity holders or other third-parties; and difficulties in the integration of the acquired company's departments, systems, including accounting, human resource and other administrative systems, technologies, books and records, and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards, controls, including internal control over financial reporting required by the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 and related procedures and policies. acquisitions, licensing arrangements and other strategic transactions are inherently risky, and ultimately, if we do not complete an announced acquisition, collaboration or strategic transaction or integrate an acquired or licensed asset, business or technology successfully and in a timely manner, we may not realize the benefits of the strategic transaction to the extent anticipated. additionally, we may later incur impairment charges related to assets acquired in any such transaction. for example, we entered into a strategic collaboration and license agreement with parion sciences, inc., or parion, to develop enac inhibitors in 2015 and incurred an impairment charge related to this collaboration in the third quarter of 2017. in addition, even if we achieve the long-term benefits associated with our strategic transactions, our expenses and short-term costs may increase materially and adversely affect our liquidity and short-term net income (loss). future strategic transactions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, the creation of contingent liabilities, impairment expenses related to goodwill, or impairment or amortization expenses related to other intangible assets, all of which could harm our financial condition. we face risks in connection with existing and future collaborations with respect to the development, manufacture and commercialization of our products and drug candidates. the risks that we face in connection with our current collaborations, including crispr, and any future collaborations, include the following: our collaborators may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts or may have insufficient resources to effectively develop our drug candidates. the ability of some of our products and drug candidates to reach their potential could be limited if collaborators decrease or fail to increase development or commercialization efforts related to those products or drug candidates. our collaboration agreements provide our collaborators with a level of discretion in determining the amount and timing of efforts and resources that they will apply to these collaborations. collaboration agreements may have the effect of limiting the areas of research and development that we may pursue, either alone or in collaboration with third parties. collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, drugs that are similar to or competitive with the drugs or drug candidates that are the subject of their collaborations with us. disagreements with collaborators, including disagreements over proprietary rights, contract interpretation or the preferred course of development, might cause delays or termination of the research, development or commercialization of drug candidates, might lead to additional responsibilities for us with respect to drug candidates, or might result in litigation or arbitration. any such disagreements would divert management attention and resources and be time-consuming and expensive. collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our intellectual property or proprietary information or expose us to potential litigation. collaborators may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may expose us to litigation and potential liability. 31 investigations and/or compliance or enforcement actions against a collaborator, which may expose us to indirect liability as a result of our partnership with such collaborator. our collaboration agreements are subject to termination under various circumstances. additionally, if a collaborator were to be involved in a business combination with a third party, it might deemphasize or terminate the development or commercialization of any drug candidate licensed to it by us. if one of our collaborators terminates its agreement with us, we may find it more difficult to attract new collaborators and our perception in the business and financial communities could be harmed. we may not be able to attract collaborators or external funding for the development and commercialization of certain of our drug candidates. as part of our ongoing strategy, we may seek additional collaborative arrangements or external funding for certain of our development programs and/or seek to expand existing collaborations to cover additional commercialization and/or development activities. we have a number of research programs and early-stage clinical development programs, some of which are being developed in collaboration with a third party. for example, we have an ongoing collaboration with janssen, pursuant to which janssen is developing pimodivir, a drug candidate for the treatment of influenza we discovered. at any time, we may determine that in order to continue development of a drug candidate or program or successfully commercialize a drug we need to identify a collaborator or amend or expand an existing collaboration. whether we reach a definitive agreement for a collaboration will depend, among other things, upon our assessment of the collaborator's resources and expertise, the terms and conditions of the proposed collaboration and the proposed collaborator's evaluation of a number of factors. those factors may include the design or results of clinical trials, the likelihood of approval by the fda, ema or other regulatory authorities, the potential market for the subject drug candidate, the costs and complexities of manufacturing and delivering such drug candidate to patients, the potential of competing products, the existence of uncertainty with respect to our ownership of the applicable intellectual property, which can exist if there is a challenge to such ownership without regard to the merits of the challenge, and industry and market conditions generally. potentially, and depending on the circumstances, we may desire that a collaborator either agree to fund portions of a drug development program led by us, or agree to provide all of the funding and directly lead the development and commercialization of a program. no assurance can be given that any efforts we make to seek additional collaborative arrangements will be successfully completed on a timely basis or at all. if we elect to fund and undertake development or commercialization activities on our own, we may need to obtain additional expertise and additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. if we are unable to enter into acceptable collaborative relationships, one or more of our development programs could be delayed or terminated and the possibility of our receiving a return on our investment in the program could be impaired. risks related to third-party manufacturing and reliance on third parties we depend on third-party manufacturers to manufacture our products and the materials we require for our clinical trials. we may not be able to maintain these relationships and could experience supply disruptions outside of our control. we rely on a worldwide network of third-party manufacturers to manufacture our drugs for commercial use and our drug candidates for clinical trials. as a result of our reliance on these third-party manufacturers and suppliers, we could be subject to significant supply disruptions outside of our control. our supply chain for sourcing raw materials and manufacturing drug product ready for distribution is a multi-step international endeavor. third-party contract manufacturers, including some in china, perform different parts of our manufacturing process. contract manufacturers may supply us with raw materials, convert these raw materials into drug substance and/or convert the drug substance into final dosage form. third parties are used for packaging, warehousing and distribution of products. establishing and managing this global supply chain requires a significant financial commitment and the creation and maintenance of numerous third-party contractual relationships. although we attempt to manage the business relationships with companies in our supply chain, we do not have control over their operations. supply disruptions may result from a number of factors, including shortages in product raw materials, labor or technical difficulties, regulatory inspections or restrictions, shipping or customs delays or any other performance failure by any third-party manufacturer on which we rely. any supply disruptions could disrupt sales of our products and/or the timing of our clinical trials. we require a supply for our medicines for commercial sale and a supply of our drug candidates for use in our clinical trials. while we have developed some internal capabilities, a majority of the manufacturing steps needed to produce our drug candidates and drug products are performed through a third-party manufacturing network. to ensure the stability of our supply chains we aim to develop additional sources of manufacture for all steps of our manufacturing processes at the time of, or shortly after, marketing approval. therefore, at any point in time, we may have a limited number of single source manufacturers for certain steps in our manufacturing processes, particularly for recently launched products. 32 if we or our third-party manufacturers become unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing product and we are not able to promptly identify another manufacturer, we could experience a disruption in the commercial supply of our then-marketed medicines, which would have a significant effect on patients, our business and our product revenues. similarly, a disruption in the clinical supply of drug products could delay the completion of clinical trials and affect timelines for regulatory filings. there can be no assurance that we will be able to establish and maintain secondary manufacturers for all of our drug candidates and drug products on a timely basis or at all. in the course of providing its services, a contract manufacturer may develop process technology related to the manufacture of our products or drug candidates that the manufacturer owns, either independently or jointly with us. this would increase our reliance on that manufacturer or require us to obtain a license from that manufacturer in order to have our products or drug candidates manufactured by other suppliers utilizing the same process. we rely on third parties to conduct pre-clinical work, clinical trials and other activities, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such studies and/or trials or failing to satisfy regulatory requirements. we rely on third parties such as contract research organizations to help manage certain pre-clinical work and our clinical trials and on medical institutions, clinical investigators and clinical research organizations such as the therapeutic development network, which is primarily funded by the cff, to assist in the design and review of, and to conduct our clinical trials, including enrolling qualified patients. in addition, we engage third party contractors to support numerous other research, commercial and administrative activities. our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities but does not relieve us of our responsibilities. for example, we remain responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the clinical trial. moreover, the fda requires us to comply with standards, commonly referred to as good laboratory practices and good clinical practices, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of pre-clinical and clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity and confidentiality of trial participants are protected. if these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be required to replace them. although we believe that there are a number of other third-party contractors we could engage to continue the activities, it may result in a delay of the affected clinical trial, drug development program or applicable activity. if clinical trials are not conducted in accordance with our contractual expectations or regulatory requirements, action by regulatory authorities might significantly and adversely affect the conduct or progress of these clinical trials or in specific circumstances might result in a requirement that a clinical trial be redone. accordingly, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize our drug candidates could be delayed. in addition, failure of any third party contractor to conduct activities in accordance with our expectations could adversely affect the relevant research, development, commercial or administrative activity. risks related to intellectual property if our patents do not protect our drugs or our drugs infringe third-party patents, we could be subject to litigation which could result in injunctions preventing us from selling our products or substantial liabilities. we have numerous issued patents and pending patent applications in the united states, as well as counterparts in other countries. our success will depend, in significant part, on our ability to obtain and defend u.s. and foreign patents covering our drugs, their uses and our processes, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. we cannot be certain that any patents will issue from our pending patent applications or, even if patents issue or have issued, that the issued claims will provide us with adequate protection against competitive products or otherwise be commercially valuable. due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents, our ability to obtain, maintain and enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. recent patent reform legislation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents in the u.s. the leahy-smith america invents act, or the leahy-smith act, includes a number of significant changes to united states patent law. these include provisions that affect the way patent applications are prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. the united states patent office developed new regulations and procedures to govern administration of the leahy-smith act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the leahy-smith act, and in particular, the first to file provisions, became effective in march 2013. the first to file provisions limit the rights of an inventor who is the first to invent an invention but is not the first to file an application claiming that invention. u.s. and 33 foreign patent applications typically are maintained in confidence for a period of time after they initially are filed with the applicable patent office. consequently, we cannot be certain that we were the first to invent, or the first to file patent applications on, our products or drug candidates or their use. if a third party also has filed a u.s. patent application relating to our drugs or drug candidates, their uses, or a similar invention, we may have to participate in legal or administrative proceedings to determine priority of invention. for applications governed by the lahey-smith act, if a third-party has an earlier filed u.s. patent application relating to our drugs or drug candidates, their uses, or a similar invention, we may be unable to obtain an issued patent from our application. the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its inventorship, scope, validity or enforceability. our patents may be challenged by third parties, resulting in the patent being deemed invalid, unenforceable or narrowed in scope, or the third party may circumvent any such issued patents. also, our pending patent applications may not issue, and we may not receive any additional patents. our patents might not contain claims that are sufficiently broad to prevent others from utilizing our technologies. for instance, the issued patents relating to our drugs or drug candidates may be limited to a particular molecule or molecules and may not cover similar molecules that have similar clinical properties. consequently, our competitors may independently develop competing products that do not infringe our patents or other intellectual property. in addition, if the breadth or strength of protection provided by our patents and patent applications is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to license, develop or commercialize current or future products. the laws of many foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the united states and many companies in our segment of the pharmaceutical industry have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. if we encounter such difficulties in protecting or are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, our business could be substantially harmed. because of the extensive time required for the discovery, development, testing and regulatory review of drug candidates, it is possible that a patent may expire before a drug candidate can be commercialized, or a patent may expire or remain in effect for only a short period following commercialization of such drug candidate. this would result in a minimal or non-existent period of patent exclusivity. if our drug candidates are not commercialized significantly ahead of the expiration date of any applicable patent, or if we have no patent protection on such drug candidates, then, to the extent available we would rely on other forms of exclusivity, such as regulatory exclusivity provided by the fdca and its counterpart agencies in various jurisdictions, and/or orphan drug exclusivity. uncertainty over intellectual property in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry has been the source of litigation and other disputes, which is inherently costly and unpredictable. there is considerable uncertainty within our industry about the validity, scope and enforceability of many issued patents in the united states and elsewhere in the world, and, to date, the law and practice remains in substantial flux both in the agencies that grant patents and in the courts. we cannot currently determine the ultimate scope and validity of patents which may be granted to third parties in the future or which patents might be asserted as being infringed by the manufacture, use and sale of our products. there has been, and we expect that there may continue to be, significant litigation in the pharmaceutical industry regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. litigation, arbitrations, administrative proceedings and other legal actions with private parties and governmental authorities concerning patents and other intellectual property rights may be protracted, expensive and distracting to management. competitors may sue us as a way of delaying the introduction of our drugs or to remove our drugs from the market. any litigation, including litigation related to abbreviated new drug applications, or anda, litigation related to 505(b)(2) applications, interference proceedings to determine priority of inventions, derivations proceedings, inter partes review, oppositions to patents in foreign countries, litigation against our collaborators or similar actions, may be costly and time consuming and could harm our business. we expect that litigation may be necessary in some instances to determine the validity and scope of certain of our proprietary rights. litigation may be necessary in other instances to determine the validity, scope or non-infringement of certain patent rights claimed by third parties to be pertinent to the manufacture, use or sale of our products. ultimately, the outcome of such litigation could adversely affect the validity and scope of our patent or other proprietary rights, hinder our ability to manufacture and market our products, or result in the assessment of significant monetary damages against us that may exceed amounts, if any, accrued in our financial statements. to the extent that valid present or future third-party patents or other intellectual property rights cover our drugs, drug candidates or technologies, we or our strategic collaborators may seek licenses or other agreements from the holders of such rights in order to avoid or settle legal claims. such licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, which may hinder our 34 ability to, or prevent us from being able to, manufacture and market our drugs. payments under any licenses that we are able to obtain would reduce our profits derived from the covered products. we may be subject to claims by third parties asserting that our employees or we have misappropriated their intellectual property, or claiming ownership of what we regard as our own intellectual property. many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. although we try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that these employees or we have used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of any such employee's former employer. litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. in addition, while it is our policy to require our employees and contractors who may be involved in the development of intellectual property to execute agreements assigning such intellectual property to us, we may be unsuccessful in executing such an agreement with each party who in fact develops intellectual property that we regard as our own. our and their assignment agreements may not be self-executing or may be breached, and we may be forced to bring claims against third parties, or defend claims they may bring against us, to determine the ownership of what we regard as our intellectual property. if we fail in prosecuting or defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. even if we are successful in prosecuting or defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. risks related to our operations risks associated with operating in foreign countries could materially adversely affect our business. we have expanded our international operations over the past several years in order to market our cf medicines and expand our research and development capabilities. new laws and industry codes in the e.u. and elsewhere have expanded transparency requirements regarding payments and transfers of value as well as patient-level clinical trial data and have expanded protections related to personal data and provided for increased sanctions for violations. collectively, our expansion and these new requirements are adding to our compliance costs and expose us to potential sanctions for failing to meet the enhanced safeguards and reporting demands in these jurisdictions. in addition, a significant portion of our commercial supply chain, including sourcing of raw materials and manufacturing, is located in china and the e.u. consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to risks related to operating in foreign countries, including risks relating to intellectual property protections and business interruptions. these risks are increased with respect to countries such as china that have substantially different local laws and business practices and weaker protections for intellectual property. risks associated with operating a global biotechnology company include: differing regulatory requirements for drug approvals and regulation of approved drugs in foreign countries; varying reimbursement regimes and difficulties or the inability to obtain reimbursement for our products in foreign countries in a timely manner; differing patient treatment infrastructures, particularly since our business is focused on the treatment of serious diseases that affect relatively smaller numbers of patients and are typically prescribed by specialist physicians; collectibility of accounts receivable; changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements, the risks of which appear to have increased in the current political environment; economic weakness, including recession and inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; differing levels of enforcement and/or recognition of contractual and intellectual property rights; complying with local laws and regulations, which are interpreted and enforced differently across jurisdictions and which can change significantly over time; foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes; 35 foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in reduced revenues or increased operating expenses, and other obligations incident to doing business or operating in another country; workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the united states; reliance on third-party vendors and suppliers; import and export licensing requirements, tariffs, and other trade and travel restrictions; global or regional public health emergencies that could affect our operations or business; production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism. our revenues are subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations due to the global nature of our operations. although we have foreign currency forward contracts to hedge forecasted product revenues denominated in foreign currencies, our efforts to reduce currency exchange losses may not be successful. as a result, currency fluctuations among our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar, and the currencies in which we do business will affect our operating results, often in unpredictable ways. in addition, our international operations are subject to regulation under u.s. law. for example, the fcpa prohibits u.s. companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad. in many countries, the health care professionals we regularly interact with may meet the definition of a foreign government official for purposes of the fcpa. we also are subject to import/export control laws. failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including the possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls, seizures, withdrawal of an approved product from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions, the prosecution of executives overseeing our international operations and corresponding bad publicity and negative perception of our company in foreign countries. if we fail to manage our operations effectively, our business may suffer. we have expanded and are continuing to expand our global operations and capabilities, which has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management and our operational, research and development and financial infrastructure. to effectively manage our business, we need to: implement and clearly communicate our corporate-wide strategies; enhance our operational and financial infrastructure, including our controls over records and information; enhance our operational, financial and management processes, including our cross-functional decision-making processes and our budget prioritization systems; train and manage our global employee base; and enhance our compliance and legal resources. our business faces potential risks relating to the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union. our european headquarters and european research facility are located in the united kingdom, or the u.k., and a significant portion of our ex-u.s. net product revenues are derived from sales in the u.k. on january 31, 2020, the u.k. formally withdrew from the e.u. ( brexit ) and began a transition period set to end on december 31, 2020. during the transition period, the u.k. and the e.u. will negotiate their future relationship, including the terms of trade. the effects of brexit will depend on any agreements the u.k. makes to retain access to e.u. markets, either during the transitional period or more permanently. brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the u.k. determines which e.u. laws to replace or replicate. given the lack of comparable precedent, it is unclear what financial, trade, regulatory and legal implications the withdrawal of the u.k. from the e.u. would have and how such withdrawal would affect us. any of these effects of brexit, among others, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 36 our business has a substantial risk of product liability claims and other litigation liability. if we do not obtain appropriate levels of insurance, any potential claims could adversely affect our business. we are or may be involved in various legal proceedings, including securities/shareholder matters and claims related to product liability, intellectual property and breach of contract. such proceedings may involve claims for, or the possibility of, damages or fines and penalties involving substantial amounts of money or other relief, including but not limited to civil or criminal fines and penalties. if any of these legal proceedings were to result in an adverse outcome, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. with respect to product liability and clinical trial risks, in the ordinary course of business we are subject to liability claims and lawsuits, including potential class actions, alleging that our products or drug candidates have caused, or could cause, serious adverse events or other injury. we have product liability insurance and clinical trial insurance in amounts that we believe are adequate to cover this risk. however, our insurance may not provide adequate coverage against all potential liabilities. if a claim is brought against us, we might be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as pay uncovered damage awards resulting from a claim brought successfully against us and these damages could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. furthermore, whether or not we are ultimately successful in defending any such claims, we might be required to direct significant financial and managerial resources to such defense and adverse publicity is likely to result. a breakdown or breach of our information technology systems could subject us to liability or interrupt the operation of our business. we maintain and rely extensively on information technology systems and network infrastructures for the effective operation of our business. in the course of our business, we collect, store and transmit confidential information (including personal information and intellectual property), and it is critical that we do so in a secure manner to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of such confidential information. the size and complexity of our information technology and information security systems makes such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions and to security breaches. a disruption, infiltration or failure of our information technology systems or any of our data centers as a result of software or hardware malfunctions, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, employee theft or misuse, power disruptions, natural disasters, floods or accidents could cause breaches of data security and loss of critical data, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business and subject us to both private and governmental causes of action. while we have implemented security measures in an attempt to minimize these risks to our data and information technology systems and have adopted a business continuity plan to deal with a disruption to our information technology systems, cyber-attacks are increasing in their frequency, sophistication and intensity, and have become increasingly difficult to detect. there can be no assurance that our efforts to protect our data and information systems will prevent breakdowns or breaches in our systems that could adversely affect our business. in addition, our liability insurance may not be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to security breaches, cyber-attacks or other related liabilities. if we fail to attract and retain skilled employees or manage our upcoming executive transition, our business could be materially harmed. due to the highly technical nature of our drug discovery and development activities, we require the services of highly qualified and trained scientists who have the skills necessary to conduct these activities. in addition, we need to attract and retain employees with experience in marketing and commercialization of medicines. we have entered into employment agreements with some executives and provide stock-related compensation benefits to all of our key employees that vest over time and therefore induce them to remain with us. however, the employment agreements can be terminated by the executive on relatively short notice. the value to employees of stock-related benefits that vest over time such as restricted stock units and stock options can be significantly affected by movements in our stock price, and may, at any point in time, be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. we face intense competition for our personnel from our competitors and other companies throughout our industry. we also experience competition for the hiring of scientific and clinical personnel from universities and research institutions. moreover, the growth of local biotechnology companies and the expansion of major pharmaceutical companies into the boston area has increased competition for the available pool of skilled employees, especially in technical fields. the high cost of living in massachusetts can make it difficult to attract employees from other parts of the country to our massachusetts headquarters. in addition, the available pool of skilled employees would be further reduced if immigration laws change in a manner that increases restrictions on immigration. our ability to continue to commercialize our products and achieve our research and development objectives depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands. if we are unable to hire and retain qualified personnel, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. 37 on april 1, 2020, dr. jeffrey leiden will transition to the role of executive chairman and dr. reshma kewalramani will become our president and chief executive officer. no assurance can be made about the impact that this transition in management will have on our business. if we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected. our research and development efforts involve the regulated use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various controlled and radioactive compounds. although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by state, federal and foreign regulations, the risk of loss of, or accidental contamination or injury from, these materials cannot be eliminated. if an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. we also are subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. although we maintain workers' compensation insurance to cover us for costs we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. we maintain insurance to cover pollution conditions or other extraordinary or unanticipated events relating to our use and disposal of hazardous materials that we believe is appropriate based on the small amount of hazardous materials we generate. additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. we may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations. if our facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, our operations would be seriously harmed. most of our operations, including our research and development activities, are conducted in a limited number of facilities. if any of our major facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, due to an earthquake, severe storms, fire or similar event, our operations could be seriously harmed. for example, our corporate headquarters, as well as additional leased space that we use for certain logistical and laboratory operations and manufacturing, are located in a flood zone along the massachusetts coast. we have adopted a business continuity plan to address most crises. however, if we are unable to fully implement our business continuity plans, we may experience delays in recovery of data and/or an inability to perform vital corporate functions, which could result in a significant disruption in our research, development, manufacturing and/or commercial activities, large expenses to repair or replace the facility and/or the loss of critical data, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. risks related to holding our common stock our stock price may fluctuate. market prices for securities of companies such as ours are highly volatile. from january 1, 2019 to december 31, 2019 , our common stock traded between $160.95 and $225.66 per share. the market for our stock, like that of other companies in the biotechnology industry, has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. the future market price of our securities could be significantly and adversely affected by factors such as: the information contained in our quarterly earnings releases, including our net product revenues and operating expenses for completed periods and guidance regarding future periods; announcements of fda actions with respect to our drugs or our competitors' drugs, or regulatory filings for our drug candidates or those of our competitors, or announcements of interim or final results of clinical trials or nonclinical studies relating to our drugs, drug candidates or those of our competitors; developments in domestic and international governmental policy or regulation, for example, relating to drug pricing or intellectual property rights; technological innovations or the introduction of new drugs by our competitors; government regulatory action; public concern as to the safety of drugs developed by us or our competitors; developments in patent or other intellectual property rights or announcements relating to these matters; information disclosed by third parties regarding our business or products; 38 developments relating specifically to other companies and market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks or stocks in general; business development, capital structuring or financing activities; and general worldwide or national economic, political and capital market conditions. following periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, stockholder derivative lawsuits and securities class action litigation are common. such litigation, if instituted against us or our officers and directors, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management's attention and resources. our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuation. our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past, and we expect that they will continue to do so in the future. our revenues are primarily dependent on the level of net product revenues from sales of our cf medicines. our total net product revenues could vary on a quarterly basis based on, among other factors, the timing of orders from our significant customers. additional factors that have caused quarterly fluctuations to our operating results in recent years include variable amounts of revenues, expenses related to business development activities, changes in the fair value of our strategic investments, impairment charges, charges for excess and obsolete inventories, changes in the fair value of derivative instruments and the consolidation or deconsolidation of variable interest entities. our revenues also are subject to foreign exchange rate fluctuations due to the global nature of our operations. although we have foreign currency forward contracts to hedge forecasted product revenues denominated in foreign currencies, our efforts to reduce currency exchange losses may not be successful. as a result, currency fluctuations among our reporting currency, the u.s. dollar, and the currencies in which we do business may affect our operating results, often in unpredictable ways. our quarterly results also could be materially affected by significant charges, which may or may not be similar to charges we have experienced in the past. most of our operating expenses relate to our research and development activities, do not vary directly with the amount of revenues and are difficult to adjust in the short term. as a result, if revenues in a particular quarter are below expectations, we are unlikely to reduce operating expenses proportionately for that quarter. these examples are only illustrative and other risks, including those discussed in these risk factors, could also cause fluctuations in our reported financial results. our operating results during any one period do not necessarily suggest the results of future periods. we expect that results from our clinical development activities and the clinical development activities of our competitors will continue to be released periodically, and may result in significant volatility in the price of our common stock. any new information regarding our products and drug candidates or competitive products or potentially competitive drug candidates can substantially affect investors' perceptions regarding our future prospects. we, our collaborators and our competitors periodically provide updates regarding drug development programs, typically through press releases, conference calls and presentations at medical conferences. these periodic updates often include interim or final results from clinical trials conducted by us or our competitors and/or information about our or our competitors' expectations regarding regulatory filings and submissions as well as future clinical development of our products or drug candidates, competitive products or potentially competitive drug candidates. the timing of the release of information by us regarding our drug development programs is often beyond our control and is influenced by the timing of receipt of data from our clinical trials and by the general preference among pharmaceutical companies to disclose clinical data during medical conferences. in addition, the information disclosed about our clinical trials, or our competitors' clinical trials, may be based on interim rather than final data that may involve interpretation difficulties and may in any event not accurately predict final results. changes in tax laws, regulations and treaties could affect our future taxable income. we are subject to taxation in numerous countries, states and other jurisdictions. as a result, our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of applicable tax rates in the various places that we operate globally. our effective tax rate may be different than experienced in the past due to numerous factors, including changes in the mix of our profitability from country to country, the results of tax authority examinations/audits of our tax filings, adjustments to the value of our uncertain tax positions, changes in accounting for income taxes and changes in tax laws or modifications of treaties in various jurisdictions. any of these factors could cause us to experience an effective tax rate significantly different from previous periods or our current expectations we continue to assess the impact of various tax reform proposals and modifications to existing tax treaties in all jurisdictions where we have operations to determine the potential effect on our business and any assumptions we have made about our future taxable income. we cannot predict whether any specific proposals will be enacted, the terms of any such proposals or what effect, if any, such proposals would have on our business if they were to be enacted. 39 recommendations from the organization for economic co-operation and development that are part of the base erosion and profit shifting, or beps, framework could result in changes in tax laws in countries where we do business and adversely affect our provision for income taxes and our current rate. if these recommendations (or other changes in law) were adopted by the countries in which we do business, it could adversely affect our provision for income tax and our current rate. we may need to raise additional capital that may not be available. we may need to raise additional capital in the future. any potential public offering, private placement or debt financing may or may not be similar to the transactions that we entered into in the past. any debt financing may be on terms that, among other things, include conversion features that could result in dilution to our then-existing security holders and restrict our ability to pay interest and dividends although we do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. any equity financings would result in dilution to our then-existing security holders. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be required to curtail significantly or discontinue one or more of our research, drug discovery or development programs, including clinical trials, incur significant cash exit costs, or attempt to obtain funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, drugs or drug candidates. based on many factors, including general economic conditions, additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. future indebtedness could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, and the terms of our credit agreement impose restrictions on our business, reducing our operational flexibility and creating default risks. in september 2019, we entered into a credit agreement providing for a $500 million revolving facility. the credit agreement provides that, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, we may request that the borrowing capacity under the credit agreement be increased by an additional $500.0 million. all outstanding borrowings under the credit agreement mature on september 17, 2024. if we borrow under our current credit agreements or any future credit agreement, such indebtedness could have important consequences to our business, including increasing our vulnerability to general adverse financial, business, economic and industry conditions, as well as other factors that are beyond our control. the credit agreement requires that we comply with certain financial covenants, including (i) a consolidated leverage ratio covenant and (ii) a consolidated interest coverage ratio covenant, in each case to be measured on a quarterly basis. further, the credit agreement includes negative covenants, subject to exceptions, restricting or limiting our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness, grant liens, engage in certain investment, acquisition and disposition transactions, pay dividends, repurchase capital stock and enter into transactions with affiliates. as a result, we may be restricted from engaging in business activities that may otherwise improve our business. failure to comply with the covenants could result in an event of default that could trigger acceleration of our indebtedness, which would require us to repay all amounts owing under the credit agreement and/or our capital leases and could have a material adverse effect on our business. additionally, our obligations under the credit agreement are unconditionally guaranteed by certain of our domestic subsidiaries. issuances of additional shares of our common stock could cause the price of our common stock to decline. as of december 31, 2019 , we had 259.0 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. as of december 31, 2019 , we also had outstanding options to purchase 6.3 million shares of common stock with a weighted-average exercise price of $134.92 per share. outstanding vested options are likely to be exercised if the market price of our common stock exceeds the applicable exercise price, and, in the future, we expect to issue additional options and restricted stock units to directors and employees. in addition, we may issue additional common stock or restricted securities in the future as part of financing activities or business development activities and any such issuances may have a dilutive effect on our then-existing shareholders. sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market, or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. the issuance of restricted common stock or common stock upon exercise of any outstanding options would be dilutive, and may cause the market price for a share of our common stock to decline. there can be no assurance that we will repurchase shares of common stock or that we will repurchase shares at favorable prices. our board of directors has authorized a share repurchase program of up to $500 million to repurchase shares of our common stock. our stock repurchases will depend upon, among other factors, our cash balances and potential future capital requirements, results of operations, financial condition and other factors that we may deem relevant. we can provide no assurance that we will repurchase stock at favorable prices, if at all. 40 we have adopted anti-takeover provisions and are subject to massachusetts corporate laws that may frustrate any attempt to remove or replace our current management or effectuate a business combination involving vertex. our corporate charter and by-law provisions and massachusetts state laws may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change of control of vertex that might be beneficial to us or our security holders. our by-laws grant the directors a right to adjourn annual meetings of shareholders, and certain provisions of our by-laws may be amended only with an 80% shareholder vote. we may issue shares of any class or series of preferred stock in the future without shareholder approval and upon such terms as our board of directors may determine. the rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any class or series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. massachusetts state law prohibits us from engaging in specified business combinations, unless the combination is approved or consummated in a prescribed manner, and prohibits voting by any shareholder who acquires 20% or more of our voting stock without shareholder approval. as a result, shareholders or other parties may find it more difficult to remove or replace our current management. special note regarding forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k and, in particular, the description of our business set forth in item 1, the risk factors set forth in this item 1a and our management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations set forth in item 7 contain or incorporate a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding: our expectations regarding the amount of, timing of and trends with respect to our revenues, costs and expenses and other gains and losses, including those related to our net product revenues; our expectations regarding the timing and structure of clinical trials of our drugs and drug candidates, the expected timing of our receipt of data from our ongoing and planned clinical trials and regulatory authority filings and submissions for our drugs or drug candidates; our ability to obtain reimbursement for our medicines in ex-u.s. markets and our ability to otherwise successfully market our medicines or any drug candidates for which we obtain regulatory approval; the data that will be generated by ongoing and planned clinical trials and the ability to use that data to advance compounds, continue development or support regulatory filings; our beliefs regarding the support provided by clinical trials and preclinical and nonclinical studies of our drug candidates for further investigation, clinical trials or potential use as a treatment; our plan to continue investing in our research and development programs and our strategy to develop our drug candidates, alone or with third party-collaborators; the establishment, development and maintenance of collaborative relationships; potential business development activities; potential fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; our ability to use our research programs to identify and develop new drug candidates to address serious diseases and significant unmet medical needs; and our liquidity and our expectations regarding the possibility of raising additional capital. any or all of our forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k may turn out to be wrong. they can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. many factors mentioned in this annual report on form 10-k will be important in determining future results. consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. actual future results may vary materially from expected results. we also provide a cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties under risk factors above in this item 1a. these are factors and uncertainties that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results. other factors and uncertainties besides those listed there could also adversely affect us. 41 without limiting the foregoing, the words believes, anticipates, plans, intends, expects and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. there are a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control, including the factors and uncertainties set forth under risk factors above in this item 1a. in addition, the forward-looking statements contained herein represent our estimate only as of the date of this filing and should not be relied upon as representing our estimate as of any subsequent date. while we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk as part of our investment portfolio, we own financial instruments that are sensitive to market risks. the investment portfolio is used to preserve our capital until it is required to fund operations, including our research and development 64 activities. none of these market risk-sensitive instruments are held for trading purposes. we do not have derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. interest rate risk we invest our cash in a variety of financial instruments, principally securities issued by the u.s. government and its agencies, investment-grade corporate bonds and commercial paper, and money market funds. these investments are denominated in u.s. dollars. all of our interest-bearing securities are subject to interest rate risk and could decline in value if interest rates fluctuate. substantially all of our investment portfolio consists of marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to help ensure portfolio liquidity, and we have implemented guidelines limiting the term-to-maturity of our investment instruments. due to the conservative nature of these instruments, we do not believe that we have a material exposure to interest rate risk. if interest rates were to increase or decrease by 1%, the fair value of our investment portfolio would increase or decrease by an immaterial amount. in 2019, we entered into a credit agreement. loans under the credit agreement bear interest, at our option, at either a base rate or a eurocurrency rate, in each case plus an applicable margin. the applicable margin on base rate loans ranges from 0.125% to 0.50% and the applicable margin on eurocurrency loans ranges from 1.125% to 1.50%, in each case, based on our consolidated leverage ratio (the ratio of our total consolidated funded indebtedness to our consolidated ebitda for the most recently completed four fiscal quarter period). we do not believe that changes in interest rates related to the credit agreement would have a material effect on our financial statements. as of december 31, 2019 , we had no principal or interest outstanding. a portion of our interest expense in 2020 will be dependent on whether, and to what extent, we borrow amounts under the existing facility. foreign exchange market risk as a result of our foreign operations, we face exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the euro and british pound against the u.s. dollar. the current exposures arise primarily from cash, accounts receivable, intercompany receivables and payables, payables and accruals and inventories. both positive and negative effects to our net revenues from international product sales from movements in exchange rates are partially mitigated by the natural, opposite effect that exchange rates have on our international operating costs and expenses. we have a foreign currency management program with the objective of reducing the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results and forecasted revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies. we currently have cash flow hedges for the euro, british pound, canadian dollar and australian dollar related to a portion of our forecasted product revenues that qualify for hedge accounting treatment under u.s. gaap. we do not seek hedge accounting treatment for our foreign currency forward contracts related to monetary assets and liabilities that impact our operating results. as of december 31, 2019 , we held foreign exchange forward contracts that were designated as cash flow hedges with notional amounts totaling $728.4 million and had a net fair value of $2.4 million recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. although not predictive in nature, we believe a hypothetical 10% threshold reflects a reasonably possible near-term change in exchange rates. assuming that the december 31, 2019 exchange rates were to change by a hypothetical 10%, the fair value recorded on our consolidated balance sheet related to our foreign exchange forward contracts that were designated as cash flow hedges as of december 31, 2019 would change by approximately $72.8 million . however, since these contracts hedge a specific portion of our forecasted product revenues denominated in certain foreign currencies, any change in the fair value of these contracts is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income on our consolidated balance sheet and is reclassified to earnings in the same periods during which the underlying product revenues affect earnings. therefore, any change in the fair value of these contracts that would result from a hypothetical 10% change in exchange rates would be entirely offset by the change in value associated with the underlying hedged product revenues resulting in no impact on our future anticipated earnings and cash flows with respect to the hedged portion of our forecasted product revenues.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk........................................................ 52 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk as part of its investment portfolio, vertex owns financial instruments that are sensitive to market risks. the investment portfolio is used to preserve vertex's capital until it is required to fund operations, including vertex's research and development activities. none of these market risk sensitive instruments are held for trading purposes. vertex does not have derivative financial instruments in its investment portfolio. interest rate risk vertex invests its cash in a variety of financial instruments, principally securities issued by the u.s. government and its agencies, investment grade corporate bonds and notes and money market instruments. these investments are denominated in u.s. dollars. all of its interest-bearing securities are subject to interest rate risk, and could decline in value if interest rates fluctuate. substantially all of vertex's investment portfolio consists of marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to help ensure portfolio liquidity, and vertex has implemented guidelines limiting the term to maturity of its investment instruments. due to the conservative nature of these instruments, vertex does not believe that it has a material exposure to interest rate risk.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk as part of its investment portfolio, vertex owns financial instruments that are sensitive to market risks. the investment portfolio is used to preserve vertex's capital until it is required to fund operations, including vertex's research and development activities. none of these market risk sensitive instruments are held for trading purposes. vertex does not have derivative financial instruments in its investment portfolio. interest rate risk vertex invests its cash in a variety of financial instruments, principally securities issued by the u.s. government and its agencies, investment grade corporate bonds and notes and money market instruments. these investments are denominated in u.s. dollars. all of its interest-bearing securities are subject to interest rate risk, and could decline in value if interest rates fluctuate. substantially all of vertex's investment portfolio consists of marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to help ensure portfolio liquidity, and vertex has implemented guidelines limiting the term to maturity of its investment instruments. due to the conservative nature of these instruments, vertex does not believe that it has a material exposure to interest rate risk.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitive disclosures about market risk as part of its investment portfolio, vertex owns financial instruments that are sensitive to market risks. the investment portfolio is used to preserve vertex's capital until it is required to fund operations, including vertex's research and development activities. none of these market risk sensitive instruments are held for trading purposes. vertex does not have derivative financial instruments in its investment portfolio. 51 interest rate risk vertex invests its cash in a variety of financial instruments, principally securities issued by the u.s. government and its agencies, investment grade corporate bonds and notes and money market instruments. these investments are denominnated in u.s. dollars. all of its interest-bearing securities are subject to interest rate risk, and could decline in value if interest rates fluctuate. substantially all of vertex's investment portfolio consists of marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to help ensure portfolio liquidity, and vertex has implemented guidelines limiting the term to maturity of its investment instruments. due to the conservative nature of these instruments, vertex does not believe that it has a material exposure to interest rate risk. quantitative and qualitive disclosures about market riskquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitive disclosures about market risk as part of its investment portfolio, vertex owns financial instruments that are sensitive to market risks. the investment portfolio is used to preserve vertex's capital until it is required to fund operations, including vertex's research and development activities. none of these market risk sensitive instruments are held for trading purposes. vertex does not have derivative financial instruments in its investment portfolio. interest rate risk vertex invests its cash in a variety of financial instruments, principally securities issued by the united states government and its agencies, investment grade corporate bonds and notes and money market instruments. these investments are denominated in u.s. dollars. all of vertex's interest-bearing securities are subject to interest rate risk, and could decline in value if interest rates fluctuate. substantially all of vertex's investment portfolio consists of marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to help ensure portfolio liquidity, and vertex has implemented guidelines limiting the term-to-maturity of its investment instruments. due to the conservative nature of these instruments, vertex does not believe that it has a material exposure to interest rate risk. quantitative and qualitive disclosures about market riskrisk factors 30 risk factors we expect to incur future losses and we may never become profitable. we have incurred significant operating losses each year since our inception and expect to incur a significant operating loss in 2006. we believe that operating losses will continue beyond 2006, even if we receive significant future payments under our existing and future collaborative agreements, because we are planning to make significant investments in research and development, and because we will incur significant selling, general and administrative expenses in the course of researching, developing and commercializing our product candidates. we expect that losses will fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year, and that such fluctuations may be substantial. we cannot predict when we will become profitable, if at all. many of our drug candidates are still in the early stages of development and all of our drug candidates remain subject to clinical testing and regulatory approval. if we are unable to successfully develop and test our drug candidates, we will not be successful. the success of our business depends primarily upon our ability to develop and commercialize our drug candidates successfully. our drug candidates are in various stages of development. our drug candidates must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before they can be approved by the fda or other regulatory authorities for sale. to satisfy these standards, we must engage in expensive and lengthy testing of our drug candidates. despite our efforts, our drug candidates may not: offer therapeutic or other improvement over existing comparable drugs; be proven safe and effective in clinical trials; meet applicable regulatory standards; be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs; or if approved for commercial sale, be successfully commercialized. positive results in preclinical studies of a drug candidate may not be predictive of similar results in humans during clinical trials, and promising results from early clinical trials of a drug candidate may not be replicated in later clinical trials. findings in nonclinical studies conducted concurrently with clinical trials could result in abrupt changes in our development activities, including the possible cessation of development activities associated with a drug candidate. furthermore, results from our clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the fda or other regulatory authorities for approval of a drug candidate. a number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in late stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in early stage development. accordingly, the results from the completed preclinical studies and clinical trials and ongoing clinical trials for our drug candidates may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later stage trials, and are not predictive of the likelihood of approval of a drug candidate for commercial sale. if we are unable to obtain u.s. and/or foreign regulatory approval, we will be unable to commercialize our drug candidates. our drug candidates are subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to their development, clinical trials, manufacturing and commercialization. rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory approval process are required in the united states and in most other countries prior to the commercial sale of our drug candidates. satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. it is possible that none of the drug candidates we are developing will be approved for marketing. we have limited experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals, including approval by the fda. the time required to complete clinical trials and for the fda and other countries' regulatory review processes is uncertain and typically takes many 30 years. our analysis of data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. we may also encounter unanticipated delays or increased costs due to government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in fda policy during the period of product development, clinical trials and fda regulatory review. any delay in obtaining or failure to obtain required approvals could materially adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize any drug candidate. furthermore, any regulatory approval to market a drug product may be subject to unexpected limitations on the indicated uses for which we may market the drug product. these limitations may limit the size of the market for the drug product. we are also subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement. the foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with the fda approval process described above, as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of foreign requirements. approval by the fda does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities outside the united states. foreign jurisdictions may have different approval procedures than those required by the fda and may impose additional testing requirements for our drug candidates. if clinical trials for our drug candidates are prolonged or delayed, we may be unable to commercialize our drug candidates on a timely basis, which would require us to incur additional costs and would delay our receipt of any product revenue. we cannot predict whether or not we will encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause us or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend clinical trials, or delay the analysis of data from our completed or ongoing clinical trials. any of the following could delay the clinical development of our drug candidates: ongoing discussions with the fda or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials; delays in receiving or the inability to obtain required approvals from irbs or other reviewing entities at clinical sites selected for participation in our clinical trials; delays in enrolling volunteers and patients into clinical trials; a lower than anticipated retention rate of volunteers and patients in clinical trials; the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive results or unforeseen complications in testing; inadequate supply or deficient quality of drug candidate materials or other materials necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials; unfavorable fda inspection and review of a clinical trial site or records of any clinical or preclinical investigation; serious and unexpected drug-related side effects experienced by participants in our clinical trials; or the placement by the fda of a clinical hold on a trial. our ability to enroll patients in our clinical trials in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis will be subject to a number of factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. in addition, subjects may drop out of our clinical trials, and thereby possibly impair the validity or statistical significance of the trials. delays in patient enrollment or unforeseen drop out rates may result in increased costs and longer development times. while all or a portion of these additional costs may be covered by payments under our collaborative agreements, we bear all of the costs for our development candidates for which we have no financial support from a collaborator. 31 we, the fda or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a drug candidate at any time if we or they believe the subjects or patients participating in such clinical trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. we cannot predict whether any of our drug candidates will encounter problems during clinical trials which will cause us or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend these trials, or which will delay the analysis of data from these trials. in addition, it is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted, or whether fda regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. if we experience any such problems, we may not have the financial resources to continue development of the drug candidate that is affected or the development of any of our other drug candidates. if our processes and systems are not compliant with regulatory requirements, we could be subject to delays in filing new drug applications or restrictions on marketing of products after they have been approved. we currently are developing drug product candidates for regulatory approval for the first time since the company's inception, and are in the process of implementing regulated processes and systems required to obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our product candidates. certain of these processes and systems for conducting clinical trials and manufacturing material must be compliant with regulatory requirements before we can apply for regulatory approval for our drug product candidates. these processes and systems will be subject to continual review and periodic inspection by the fda and other regulatory bodies. if we are unable to achieve compliance in a timely fashion, we may experience delays in filing for regulatory approval for our drug product candidates. in addition, any later discovery of previously unknown problems or safety issues with approved products or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of products from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal penalties or a refusal by the fda and/or other regulatory bodies to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we are a party to collaboration agreements that transfer responsibility for complying with specified regulatory requirements, such as filing and maintenance of marketing authorizations and safety reporting, to our collaborator. if our collaborators do not fulfill these regulatory obligations, any products for which we or they obtain approval may be withdrawn from the market, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. even if we obtain regulatory approvals, our drug candidates will be subject to ongoing regulatory review. if we fail to comply with continuing u.s. and applicable foreign regulations, we could lose those approvals, and our business would be seriously harmed. even if we receive regulatory approval of any drug candidates that we are developing, we will be subject to continuing regulatory review, including the review of clinical results that are reported after our drug candidates become commercially available, approved drugs. since drugs are more widely used by patients once approval has been obtained, side effects and other problems may be observed after approval that were not seen or anticipated during pre-approval clinical trials. in addition, the manufacturers and the manufacturing facilities we engage to make any of our drug candidates will also be subject to periodic review and inspection by the fda. the subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the drug, manufacturers or manufacturing facilities may result in restrictions on the drug, manufacturers or facilities, including withdrawal of the drug from the market or our inability to use the facilities to make our drug. if we fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval, product recalls and seizures, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. 32 our drug development efforts are data-driven and therefore potentially subject to abrupt changes in expected outcomes. small molecule drug discovery and development involve, initially, the identification of chemical compounds which may have promise as treatments for specific diseases. once identified as drug candidates, compounds are subjected to years of testing in a laboratory setting, in animals and in people. our ultimate objective is to determine whether the compounds have physical characteristics, both intrinsically and in animal and human systems and including a toxicological profile, that are compatible with clinical and commercial success in treatment of the disease being targeted. throughout this process, experiments are conducted and data are gathered that could reinforce a decision to move to the next step in the evaluation process for a particular drug candidate, could result in uncertainty over the proper course to pursue, or could result in the termination of further drug development efforts with respect to the compound being evaluated. we monitor the results of our discovery research and our nonclinical studies and clinical trials and regularly evaluate and re-evaluate our portfolio investments with the objective of balancing risk and potential return in view of new data and scientific, business and commercial insights. this process can result in relatively abrupt changes in focus and priority as new information comes to light and we gain additional insights into ongoing programs and potential new programs. we depend on third party manufacturers and suppliers, and as a result we may be subject to manufacturing and supply disruptions outside of our control. we expect that we will need to significantly augment our manufacturing, supply chain and quality assurance resources for our later-stage drug product candidates. we have no experience in manufacturing pharmaceutical products and in conducting manufacturing testing programs required to obtain fda and other regulatory approvals, and there can be no assurance that we will develop those capabilities successfully. if we are unable to establish these capabilities, we may be unable to achieve our development and commercialization goals. we are currently relying on networks of third party manufacturers and suppliers worldwide to synthesize, tablet, and package our drug candidates for clinical trials and we expect that we will continue to do so to meet our commercial supply needs for these products, if they are approved for sale. as a result of our reliance on these third party manufacturers and suppliers, some of whom currently are our sole source for clinical trial material, we may be subject to significant supply disruptions outside of our control. these supply disruptions may result from a number of factors including shortages in product raw materials, labor or technical difficulties, regulatory inspections or restrictions, and shipping and customs delays. we plan to identify and enter into commercial relationships with multiple suppliers of the materials and manufacturing services necessary for the synthesis, tableting and packaging of our drug candidates and, if approved for sale, our drugs. we expect that this approach will reduce our risk of supply chain disruptions by reducing our reliance on any one manufacturer or supplier, but we will remain vulnerable to disruptions arising from performance failure by a vendor in our manufacturing supply chain, particularly if we are unable to secure second sources for necessary products and services. any supply disruptions could impact the timing of our clinical trials and the commercial launch of any approved pharmaceutical products. furthermore, we may be required to modify our production methods to permit us to economically manufacture our products for commercial launch and sale. upon approval of a pharmaceutical product for sale, if any, we similarly may be at risk of supply chain disruption for our commercial drug supply. these modifications may require us to reevaluate our resources and the resources of our third party manufacturers and suppliers, which could result in abrupt changes in our production methods and supplies. the production of our drug candidates is based in part on technology that we believe to be proprietary. we have licensed this technology to enable our third party manufacturers and suppliers to manufacture drug candidates for us. however, in the course of their services, a contract manufacturer may develop process technology related to the manufacture of our drug candidates that the manufacturer owns, either independently or jointly with us. this would increase our reliance on that manufacturer or require us to obtain a license from that manufacturer in order to have our products manufactured by other suppliers utilizing the same process. 33 we rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such trials. we do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for our drug candidates, and we rely on third parties such as contract research organizations, medical institutions and clinical investigators to enroll qualified patients and conduct our clinical trials. our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. accordingly, these third-party contractors may not complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our trial design. to date, we believe our contract research organizations and other similar entities with which we are working generally have performed well. however, if these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be required to replace them. although we believe that there are a number of other third-party contractors we could engage to continue these activities, it may result in a delay of the affected trial. accordingly, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize our drug candidates may be delayed. our sales and marketing experience is limited. we have limited experience in marketing and selling pharmaceutical products. we must either develop a marketing and sales force or enter into arrangements with third parties to market and sell any of our product candidates that are approved by regulatory authorities. we do not know whether we will be able to enter into marketing and sales agreements with others on acceptable terms, if at all. we may not be able to successfully develop our own sales and marketing force for drug candidates for which we have retained marketing or co-promotion rights. as we develop our own marketing and sales capability, we may be competing with other companies that currently have experienced and well-funded marketing and sales operations. we have granted exclusive marketing rights for lexiva/telzir, brecanavir (vx-385) and vx-409 to glaxosmithkline worldwide (except for brecanavir in the far east where we have retained rights), and for vx-680 and vx-667 to merck. avalon pharmaceuticals has exclusive, worldwide marketing rights to vx-944. mitsubishi has exclusive marketing rights to vx-950 in japan and certain far east countries. in addition, we have granted marketing rights to vx-702 to kissei in the far east and to vx-322 to novartis worldwide. even though we retain some co-promotion rights in some collaborations, to the extent that our collaborators have commercial rights to our products, any revenues we receive from those products will depend primarily on the sales and marketing efforts of others. we may need to raise additional capital that may not be available. we expect to incur substantial research and development and related supporting expenses as we design and develop existing and future compounds, undertake clinical trials of drug candidates resulting from such compounds, and build our manufacturing, regulatory, development and commercial capabilities. we also expect to incur substantial administrative and commercialization expenditures in the future and substantial expenses related to the filing, prosecution, defense and enforcement of patent and other intellectual property claims. we may need to make significant capital investment in building our manufacturing capacity and creating pre-launch inventory for one or more of our potential products. we anticipate that we will finance these substantial cash needs with: cash received from our existing collaborative agreements; cash received from new collaborative agreements; lexiva/telzir royalty revenue; existing cash reserves, together with interest earned on those reserves; and future product sales to the extent that we market products directly. 34 we expect that funds from these sources will be sufficient to fund our planned activities for at least the next eighteen months from the date of this filing. if not, it will be necessary to raise additional funds through public offerings or private placements of equity or debt securities or other methods of financing. even if our financial resources are sufficient to meet our short or intermediate term needs, we may still decide, as we have in the past, to raise additional funds when we believe financial market conditions are favorable. any equity financings could result in dilution to our then-existing security holders. any debt financing, if available at all, may be on terms that, among other things, restrict our ability to pay dividends and interest (although we do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future). the required interest payments associated with any significant additional debt financing could materially adversely affect our ability to service our convertible subordinated notes and convertible senior subordinated notes. the terms of any additional debt financing may also, under certain circumstances, restrict or prohibit us from making interest payments on our convertible subordinated notes and convertible senior subordinated notes. if adequate funds are not available, we may be required to curtail significantly or discontinue one or more of our research, drug discovery or development programs (including clinical trials), or attempt to obtain funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies or products in research or development. additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. if we are unable to attract and retain collaborators for research support and the development and commercialization of our products, we may not be able to fund our research, development and commercialization activities. our research, development and commercialization collaborators have agreed to fund portions of our research and development programs and/or to conduct the development and commercialization of specified product candidates and, if they are approved, products. in exchange, we have given them technology, product and marketing rights relating to those products. some of our corporate collaborators have rights to control the planning and execution of product development and clinical programs. our collaborators may exercise their control rights in ways that may negatively affect the timing and success of those programs. our collaborations are subject to termination rights by the collaborators. if any of our collaborators were to terminate its relationship with us, or fail to meet its contractual obligations, that action could have a material adverse effect on our ability to undertake research, to fund related and other programs and to develop, manufacture and market any products that may have resulted from the collaboration. we expect to seek additional collaborative arrangements, which may not be available to us, to provide research support and to develop and commercialize our products in the future. for example, a significant portion of our overall research effort is conducted under our research collaborations with novartis and merck, both of which are scheduled to conclude in the first half of 2006. if we are unable to enter into collaborative arrangements that would extend or replace these research collaborations, or to find other means of financing the effort currently devoted to these research programs, our ability to conduct our research, development and commercial activities could be adversely affected to a material degree. similarly we may choose to enter into collaborative arrangements to advance the development of some of our preclinical and clinical development stage compounds. even if we are able to establish acceptable collaborative arrangements in the future, they may not be successful. if our competitors bring superior products to market or bring their products to market before we do, we may be unable to find a market for our products. our products in development may not be able to compete effectively with products that are currently on the market or new products that may be developed by others. there are many other companies developing products for the same indications that we are pursuing in development. in order to compete successfully in these areas, we must demonstrate improved safety, efficacy and ease of 35 manufacturing and gain market acceptance over competing products that may receive regulatory approval before or after our products, and over those that currently are marketed. many of our competitors, including major pharmaceutical companies such as glaxosmithkline, merck, roche, amgen, boerhinger ingelheim, novartis, johnson &amp; johnson and schering-plough possess substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we possess. in addition, many of our competitors have significantly greater experience than we have in conducting preclinical and nonclinical testing and human clinical trials of new pharmaceutical products, scaling up manufacturing operations and obtaining regulatory approvals of products and manufacturing facilities. accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for products more rapidly than we do. if we obtain regulatory approval and launch commercial sales of our products, we also will compete with respect to manufacturing efficiency and sales and marketing capabilities, areas in which we currently have limited experience. if we fail to expand our human resources and manage our growth effectively, our business may suffer. we expect that if our clinical candidates continue to progress in development, we continue to build our commercial organization and our drug discovery efforts continue to generate drug candidates, we will require significant additional investment in personnel, management systems and resources. our ability to commercialize our products, achieve our research and development objectives, and satisfy our commitments under our collaboration agreements depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands and expand our internal organization to accommodate additional anticipated growth. if we are unable to manage our growth effectively, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. if we lose our technological advantages, we may not be able to compete in the marketplace. we believe that our integrated drug discovery capability gives us a technological advantage over our competitors. however, the pharmaceutical research field is characterized by rapid technological progress and intense competition. as a result, we may not realize the expected benefits from these technologies. for example, a large pharmaceutical company, with significantly more resources than we have, could pursue a systematic approach to the discovery of drugs based on gene families, using proprietary drug targets, compound libraries, novel chemical approaches, structural protein analysis and information technologies. such a company might identify broadly applicable compound classes faster and more effectively than we do. further, we believe that interest in the application of structure-based drug design, parallel drug design and related approaches has accelerated as the strategies have become more widely understood. businesses, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations are conducting research to develop technologies that may compete with those we use. it is possible that our competitors could acquire or develop technologies that would render our technology obsolete or noncompetitive. for example, a competitor could develop information technologies that accelerate the atomic-level analysis of potential compounds that bind to the active site of a drug target, and predict the absorption, toxicity, and relative ease-of-synthesis of candidate compounds. if we were unable to access the same technologies at an acceptable price, our business could be adversely affected. the loss of the services of key employees or the failure to hire qualified employees would negatively impact our business and future growth. because our product discovery and development activities are highly technical in nature, we require the services of highly qualified and trained scientists who have the skills necessary to conduct these activities. our future success will depend in large part on the continued services of our key scientific and management personnel. we have entered into employment agreements with some individuals and provide compensation-related benefits to all of our key employees that vest over time and therefore induce them to remain with us. however, the employment agreements can be terminated by the employee on relatively short notice. the value to employees of stock-related benefits that vest 36 over time such as options and restricted stock will be significantly affected by movements in our stock price that we cannot control, and may at any point in time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. we face intense competition for our scientific personnel from our competitors, our collaborators and other companies throughout our industry. moreover, the growth of local biotechnology companies and the expansion of major pharmaceutical companies into the boston area has increased competition for the available pool of skilled employees, especially in technical fields, and the high cost of living in the boston and san diego areas makes it difficult to attract employees from other parts of the country. a failure to retain, as well as hire, train and effectively integrate into our organization a sufficient number of qualified scientists and professionals would negatively impact our business and our ability to grow our business. in addition, the level of funding under certain of our collaborative agreements depends on the number of our scientists performing research under those agreements. if we cannot hire and retain the required personnel, funding received under the agreements may be reduced. if our patents do not protect our products, or our products infringe third-party patents, we could be subject to litigation and substantial liabilities. we have numerous patent applications pending in the united states, as well as foreign counterparts in other countries. our success will depend, in significant part, on our ability to obtain and maintain united states and foreign patent protection for our products, their uses and our processes, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. we do not know whether any patents will issue from any of our patent applications or, even if patents issue or have issued, that the issued claims will provide us with any significant protection against competitive products or otherwise be valuable commercially. legal standards relating to the validity of patents and the proper scope of their claims in the pharmaceutical field are still evolving, and there is no consistent law or policy regarding the valid breadth of claims in biopharmaceutical patents or the effect of prior art on them. if we are not able to obtain adequate patent protection, our ability to prevent competitors from making, using and selling similar products will be limited. furthermore, our activities may infringe the claims of patents held by third parties. defense and prosecution of infringement or other intellectual property claims, as well as participation in other inter-party proceedings, can be expensive and time-consuming, regardless of whether or not the outcome is favorable to us. if the outcome of any such litigation or proceeding were adverse, we could be subject to significant liabilities to third parties, could be required to obtain licenses from third parties or could be required to cease sales of affected products, any of which outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business. we do not know whether lexiva/telzir will continue to be competitive in the market for hiv pis or if brecanavir, if approved, will be successful in the market. we currently receive royalties from sales of lexiva/telzir under our collaboration with glaxosmithkline and will receive product royalty payments on sales of brecanavir, if any, if brecanavir is approved for sale. lexiva/telzir's share of the worldwide protease inhibitor market may decrease due to competitive forces and market dynamics. other hiv pis and a number of other products, including viread&reg; (tenofovir dispoproxil fumerate), sustiva&reg; (efavirenz) and ziagen&reg; (abacavir) are on the market for the treatment of hiv infection and aids. other drugs are still in development by our competitors, including bristol-myers squibb, boehringer ingelheim and johnson &amp; johnson, which may have better efficacy, fewer side effects, easier administration and/or lower costs than lexiva/telzir or brecanavir. moreover, the growth in the worldwide market for hiv pis has, to a certain extent, occurred as a result of early and aggressive treatment of hiv infection with a protease inhibitor-based regimen. changes in treatment strategy, in which treatment is initiated later in the course of infection, or in which treatment is more often initiated with a regimen that does not include a protease inhibitor, may result in reduced use of hiv pis. as a result, the total market for hiv pis may decline, 37 decreasing the sales potential of lexiva/telzir and/or brecanavir. further, although we provide education efforts related to the promotion of lexiva/telzir in the united states and key markets in europe, glaxosmithkline directs the majority of the marketing and sales efforts and the positioning of lexiva/telzir in the overall market, and we have little control over the direction or success of those efforts. glaxosmithkline has the right to terminate its agreement with us without cause upon twelve months' notice, and would have no obligation to pay further royalties to us upon any such termination. if physicians, patients and third-party payors do not accept our future drugs, we may be unable to generate significant revenue, if any. even if our drug candidates obtain regulatory approval, they may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and health care payors. physicians may elect not to recommend our drugs for a variety of reasons including: the timing of the market introduction of competitive drugs; lower demonstrated clinical safety and efficacy compared to other drugs; lack of cost-effectiveness; lack of availability of reimbursement from third-party payors; convenience and ease of administration; prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; other potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; and ineffective marketing and distribution support. if our approved drugs fail to achieve market acceptance, we would not be able to generate significant revenue. if the government and other third-party payors fail to provide coverage and adequate payment rates for our future drugs, our revenue and prospects for profitability will be harmed. in both domestic and foreign markets, our sales of any future drugs will depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. such third-party payors include government health programs such as medicare, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. these third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by demanding price discounts or rebates and limiting both the types and variety of drugs that they will cover and the amounts that they will pay for these drugs. as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our future drugs. we might need to conduct post-marketing studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of any future drugs to such payors' satisfaction. such studies might require us to commit a significant amount of management time and financial and other resources. our future drugs might not ultimately be considered cost-effective. adequate third-party reimbursement might not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on investment in product development. reimbursement rates may vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost products that are already reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other products or services, and may reflect budgetary constraints and/or imperfections in medicare or medicaid data used to calculate these rates. net prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs. in addition, legislation has been introduced in congress that, if enacted, would permit more widespread importation of drugs from foreign countries into the united states, which may include importation from countries where the drugs are sold at lower prices than in the united states. such legislation, or similar regulatory changes or relaxation of laws that restrict imports of drugs from other countries, could reduce the net price we receive for our marketed drugs. 38 recent federal legislation will increase the pressure to reduce prices of pharmaceutical products paid for by medicare, which could adversely affect our revenues, if any. the medicare prescription drug improvement and modernization act of 2003, or mma, changed the way medicare will cover and pay for pharmaceutical products. the legislation expanded medicare coverage for drug purchases by the elderly and eventually will introduce a new reimbursement methodology based on average sales prices for drugs. in addition, this legislation provides authority for limiting the number of drugs that will be covered in any therapeutic class. as a result of this legislation and the expansion of federal coverage of drug products, we expect that there will be additional pressure to contain and reduce costs. these cost reduction initiatives and other provisions of this legislation could decrease the coverage and price that we receive for any approved products and could seriously harm our business. while the mma applies only to drug benefits for medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates, and any reduction in reimbursement that results from the mma may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. our business has a substantial risk of product liability claims. if we are unable to obtain appropriate levels of insurance, a product liability claim could adversely affect our business. our business exposes us to significant potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, manufacturing and sales and marketing of human therapeutic products. we currently have clinical trial insurance and will seek to obtain product liability insurance prior to the sales and marketing of any of our drug candidates. however, our insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. furthermore, clinical trial and product liability insurance is becoming increasingly expensive. as a result, we may be unable to maintain current amounts of insurance coverage or obtain additional or sufficient insurance at a reasonable cost to protect against losses that could have a material adverse effect on us. if a claim is brought against us, we might be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as uncovered damages awards resulting from a claim brought successfully against us. furthermore, whether or not we are ultimately successful in defending any such claims, we might be required to direct significant financial and managerial resources to such defense, and adverse publicity is likely to result. if we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected. our research and development efforts involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. if an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. we are also subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. although we maintain workers' compensation insurance to cover us for costs we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. due to the small amount of hazardous materials that we generate, we have determined that the cost to secure insurance coverage for environmental liability and toxic tort claims far exceeds the benefits. accordingly, we do not maintain any insurance to cover pollution conditions or other extraordinary or unanticipated events relating to our use and disposal of hazardous materials. additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. we may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations. 39 we have adopted anti-takeover provisions that may frustrate any attempt to remove or replace our current management. our corporate charter and by-law provisions and stockholder rights plan may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change of control of vertex that might be beneficial to us or our security holders. our charter provides for staggered terms for the members of the board of directors. our by-laws grant the directors a right to adjourn annual meetings of stockholders, and certain provisions of the by-laws may be amended only with an 80% stockholder vote. pursuant to our stockholder rights plan, each share of common stock has an associated preferred share purchase right. the rights will not trade separately from the common stock until, and are exercisable only upon, the acquisition or the potential acquisition through tender offer by a person or group of 15% or more of the outstanding common stock. we may issue shares of any class or series of preferred stock in the future without stockholder approval and upon such terms as our board of directors may determine. the rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any class or series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. as a result, stockholders or other parties may find it more difficult to remove or replace our current management. our stock price may fluctuate based on factors beyond our control. market prices for securities of companies such as vertex are highly volatile. within the twelve months ended december 31, 2005, our common stock traded between $8.61 and $29.24 per share. the market for our stock, like that of other companies in the biotechnology field, has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to our operating performance. the future market price of our securities could be significantly and adversely affected by factors such as: announcements of results of clinical trials or nonclinical studies; announcements of financial results and other operating performance measures, or capital structuring activities; technological innovations or the introduction of new products by our competitors; government regulatory action; public concern as to the safety of products developed by others; developments in patent or other intellectual property rights or announcements relating to these matters; developments in domestic and international governmental policy or regulation, for example relating to intellectual property rights; and developments relating specifically to other companies and market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks in general. our outstanding indebtedness may make it more difficult to obtain additional financing or reduce our flexibility to act in our best interests. as of december 31, 2005, we had approximately $42.1 million in aggregate principal amount of 5% convertible subordinated notes due in september 2007 ("2007 notes") and approximately $118.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.75% convertible senior subordinated notes due in february 2011 ("2011 notes") outstanding. the high level of our indebtedness will affect us by: exposing us to fixed rates of interest, which may be in excess of prevailing market rates; making it more difficult to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; 40 constraining our ability to react quickly in an unfavorable economic climate or to changes in our business or the pharmaceutical industry; and requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our expected cash flow to service of our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of expected cash flow available for other purposes. our estimates of our liability under our kendall square lease may be inaccurate. we leased a 290,000 square foot facility in kendall square, cambridge, massachusetts in january 2003 for a 15-year term. under the lease, we are required to complete certain build-outs and improvements of the facility. we currently expect to occupy approximately 120,000 square feet of the facility. we have sublease arrangements in place for the remaining rentable square footage of the facility. in determining our obligations under the lease for the portion of the facility that we do not expect to occupy, we have made certain assumptions relating to the costs that will be incurred to satisfy our build-out commitments under the lease, operating costs, the time necessary to sublease the space after the expiration of the initial subleases, projected future sublease rental rates and the anticipated durations of future subleases. our estimates have changed in the past, and may change in the future, resulting in additional adjustments to the estimate of liability, and the effect of any such adjustments could be material. government investigations or litigation against our collaborators could impact our business. the federal government, certain state governments and private payors are investigating and have begun to file actions against numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies alleging that the reporting of prices for pharmaceutical products has resulted in a false and overstated average wholesale price, or awp, which in turn is alleged to have improperly inflated the reimbursement paid by medicare beneficiaries, insurers, state medicaid programs, medical plans and others to health care providers who prescribed and administered those products. some payors are also alleging that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are not reporting their "best price" to the states under the medicaid program. in addition, recent government litigation against pharmaceutical companies has focused on allegations of off-label promotion in connection with the filing of false claims for government reimbursement. in any awp cases or other cases brought by the government where our collaborators or licensees are named as defendants with respect to any products licensed from us, the outcome of the case could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. sales of additional shares of our common stock could cause the price of our common stock to decline. sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market, or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. in addition, the issuance of common stock upon exercise of any outstanding option or the conversion of any of our outstanding convertible debt would be dilutive, and may cause the market price for a share of our common stock to decline. as of december 31, 2005, we had 108,153,000 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. we also had outstanding options to purchase approximately 14,669,000 shares of common stock with exercise prices as set forth in note n, "common and preferred stock," to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report on form 10-k, and with a weighted average exercise price of $22.84 per share. our outstanding notes were convertible into approximately 8,354,000 shares of common stock with a weighted average conversion price of $19.16 per share. outstanding options and convertible notes may be exercised or converted, as the case may be, if the market price of our common stock exceeds the applicable exercise or conversion price. 41 risk factors quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 65 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk as part of our investment portfolio, we own financial instruments that are sensitive to market risks. the investment portfolio is used to preserve our capital until it is required to fund operations, including our research and development activities. none of these market risk-sensitive instruments are held for trading purposes. we do not have derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. interest rate risk we invest our cash in a variety of financial instruments, principally securities issued by the united states government and its agencies, investment grade corporate bonds and notes and money market instruments. these investments are denominated in united states dollars. all of our interest-bearing securities are subject to interest rate risk, and could decline in value if interest rates fluctuate. substantially all of our investment portfolio consists of marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to help ensure portfolio liquidity, and vertex has implemented guidelines limiting the term-to-maturity of its investment instruments. due to the conservative nature of these instruments, we do not believe that we have a material exposure to interest rate risk. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskrisk factors 30 risk factors risk factors investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk, and you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by 30 reference in this annual report on form 10-k. if any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer, possibly materially. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. we expect to incur future losses, and we may never become profitable. we have incurred significant operating losses each year since our inception, including net losses of $391.3 million, $206.9 million and $203.4 million during 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and expect to incur a significant operating loss in 2008. we believe that operating losses will continue beyond 2008, because we are planning to make significant investments in research and development and in building commercial supply of telaprevir to prepare for the potential launch of telaprevir, and because we will incur significant selling, general and administrative expenses in the course of researching, developing and commercializing our drug candidates, particularly telaprevir. we are investing significant research and development resources across a relatively broad array of therapeutic areas, due in part to the high risks associated with the biotechnology and pharmaceutical business and the relatively high potential for failure of any specific effort. this diversification strategy requires more significant financial resources than would be required if we pursued a more limited approach or focused exclusively on telaprevir. in particular, in 2008 we expect to invest significant resources in order to advance the development of vx-770, vx-809, vx-500, vx-813 and vx-509, and to start clinical trials of one or more additional compounds that are currently emerging from our research activities. our net losses have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on, among other things, our stockholders' equity, total assets and working capital. we expect that losses will fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year, and that such fluctuations may be substantial. we cannot predict when we will become profitable, if at all. we need to raise additional capital that may not be available. we expect to incur substantial research and development and related supporting expenses as we design and develop existing and future compounds, undertake clinical trials of drug candidates resulting from such compounds, and build our drug supply, regulatory, development and commercial capabilities. we also expect to incur substantial administrative and commercialization expenses in the future. in particular, we expect the continuing development and commercialization of telaprevir to require additional capital beyond our current resources. we are making significant capital investments in building our drug product supply chain and creating pre-launch inventory and may need to make additional significant capital investments for one or more of our other drug candidates. we anticipate that we will finance these substantial cash needs with: public offerings or private placements of our debt or equity securities or other methods of financing; cash received from our existing collaborative agreements; cash received from new collaborative agreements or from the sale of existing assets, such as royalty streams from drugs and drug candidates being developed and commercialized by third parties; existing cash reserves, together with interest earned on those reserves; or future product sales to the extent that we market drugs directly. while we believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, together with amounts we expect to receive from our collaborators under existing contractual agreements, would be sufficient to fund our operations through 2008, we will need to raise additional capital in 2008 through public offerings or private placements of our debt or equity securities, agreements with third-parties with respect to certain of our assets or through other methods of financing in order to continue our operations through 2009. any such capital transactions may or may not be similar to transactions in which we have engaged in the past. any equity financings could result in dilution to our then-existing security holders. any debt financing may be on terms that, among other things, restrict our ability to pay interest and dividends although we do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be required to curtail 31 significantly or discontinue one or more of our research, drug discovery or development programs, including clinical trials, incur significant cash exit costs, or attempt to obtain funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, drugs or drug candidates. additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. we depend heavily on the success of our lead drug candidate, telaprevir, which is still under development. if we are unable to commercialize telaprevir, or experience delays in doing so, we could be required to seek additional financing and our business will be materially harmed. we are investing a significant portion of our time, personnel and financial resources in the development of telaprevir, and we expect to commence a phase 3 clinical trial of telaprevir in march 2008. the clinical development and commercial success of telaprevir will depend on several factors, including the following: successful completion and favorable outcomes of clinical trials; ongoing discussions with the fda and comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope and design of our clinical trials, the quality of our manufacturing process for telaprevir and our clinical trial results; receipt and timing of marketing approvals for telaprevir from the fda and similar foreign regulatory authorities; receipt and timing of marketing approvals from the fda and similar foreign regulatory authorities for products being developed for the treatment of hcv by our competitors; our ability to conduct clinical trials with respect to telaprevir in a timely manner to support a potential application for marketing approval; establishing and maintaining commercial manufacturing arrangements for telaprevir with third-party manufacturers that are subject to extensive regulation by the fda; launching commercial sales of telaprevir by us and our collaborators; the efficacy and other characteristics of telaprevir relative to existing and future treatments for hcv; and our ability to increase awareness of the benefits of early treatment for hcv if telaprevir is approved; acceptance of telaprevir, if approved, in the medical community and with third-party payors. if the data from our ongoing clinical trials or non-clinical studies regarding the safety or efficacy of telaprevir are not favorable, we may be forced to delay or terminate the clinical development of telaprevir, which would materially harm our business. further, even if we gain marketing approvals from the fda and comparable foreign regulatory authorities in a timely manner, we cannot be sure that telaprevir will be commercially successful in the pharmaceutical market. even if we obtain marketing approval and successfully commercialized telaprevir, we are investing significant amounts of cash in the development and commercialization process, and any significant delay in realizing a return on the investment would require us to engage in additional financing activities to recoup that investment, which may not be available on satisfactory terms, if at all. if the results of clinical trials of telaprevir, the anticipated or actual timing of marketing approvals for telaprevir, or the market acceptance of telaprevir, if approved, do not meet the expectations of investors or public market analysts, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. 32 many of our drug candidates are still in the early stages of development, and all of our drug candidates remain subject to clinical testing and regulatory approval. if we are unable to successfully develop and test our drug candidates, we will not be successful. the success of our business depends primarily upon our ability, and our collaborators' ability, to develop and commercialize our drug candidates, including telaprevir, successfully. due to the development efforts of our competitors, in order to develop a successful franchise in a therapeutic area it is often necessary to develop follow-on compounds and/or develop new combination therapies. our drug candidates are in various stages of development and must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before they can be approved by the fda or other regulatory authorities for sale. to satisfy these standards, we and/or our collaborators must allocate our resources among our various development programs and must engage in expensive and lengthy testing of our drug candidates. these discovery and development efforts for a new pharmaceutical product, including follow-on compounds, are lengthly and resource-intensive, and may take 10 to 15 years or more. despite our efforts, our drug candidates may not: offer therapeutic or other improvement over existing competitive drugs; be proven safe and effective in clinical trials; meet applicable regulatory standards; be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs; or if approved for commercial sale, be successfully commercialized. positive results in preclinical studies of a drug candidate may not be predictive of similar results in humans during clinical trials, and promising results from earlier clinical trials of a drug candidate may not be replicated in later clinical trials. findings, including toxicology findings, in nonclinical studies conducted concurrently with clinical trials could result in abrupt changes in our development activities, including the possible cessation of development activities associated with a drug candidate. furthermore, results from our clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the fda or other regulatory authorities for approval of a drug candidate. we and many other companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in early-stage development. accordingly, the results from the completed preclinical studies and clinical trials and ongoing clinical trials for our drug candidates may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later stage trials, and may not be predictive of the likelihood of approval of a drug candidate for commercial sale. in addition, from time to time, we report interim data from our clinical trials, including the prove 1 and prove 2 clinical trials of telaprevir. interim data is subject to change as final data are confirmed, and there can be no assurances that interim data will be confirmed upon the analysis of final data. if we are unable to obtain united states and/or foreign regulatory approval, we will be unable to commercialize our drug candidates. our drug candidates are subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to their development, clinical trials, manufacturing and commercialization. rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory approval process are required in the united states and in most other countries prior to the commercial sale of our drug candidates. satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. it is possible that none of the drug candidates we are developing independently, or in collaboration with others, will be approved for marketing. we have limited experience in conducting and managing the late-stage clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals, including approval by the fda. the time required to complete clinical trials and to satisfy the fda and other countries' regulatory review processes is uncertain and typically takes many years. our analysis of data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities is subject to 33 confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. we may also encounter unanticipated delays or increased costs due to government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in fda policy during the period of drug development, clinical trials and fda regulatory review. any delay in obtaining or failure to obtain required approvals could materially adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize any drug candidate. furthermore, any regulatory approval to market a drug may be subject to unexpected limitations on the indicated uses for which we may market the drug. these limitations may limit the size of the market for the drug. we are also subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement. the foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with the fda approval process described above, as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of foreign requirements. approval by the fda does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities outside the united states. foreign jurisdictions may have different approval procedures than those required by the fda and may impose additional testing requirements for our drug candidates. if clinical trials for our drug candidates are prolonged or delayed, we may be unable to commercialize our drug candidates on a timely basis, which would require us to incur additional costs, would delay our receipt of any product revenue and could harm our competitive position. we cannot predict whether or not we will encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause us or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend clinical trials, or delay the analysis of data from our completed or ongoing clinical trials. any of the following could delay the clinical development of our drug candidates: ongoing discussions with the fda or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials and the number of clinical trials we must conduct; delays in receiving or the inability to obtain required approvals from irbs at one or more of the institutions at which a clinical trial is conducted or other reviewing entities at clinical sites selected for participation in our clinical trials; delays in enrolling volunteers or patients into clinical trials; a lower than anticipated retention rate of volunteers or patients in clinical trials; the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive results or unforeseen complications in testing; inadequate supply or deficient quality of drug candidate materials or other materials necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials; unfavorable fda inspection and review of a manufacturing facility for a drug candidate or its relevant manufacturing records or a clinical trial site or records of any clinical or preclinical investigation; serious and unexpected drug-related side effects experienced by participants in our clinical trials; or the placement by the fda of a clinical hold on a trial. our ability to enroll patients in our clinical trials in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis will be subject to a number of factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the number of other clinical trials competing for patients in the same indication and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. in addition, subjects may drop out of our clinical trials or may be lost to follow-up medical evaluation after treatment ends, and this could possibly impair the validity or statistical significance of the trials. delays in patient enrollment or unforeseen drop-out rates may result in increased costs and longer development times. while all or a portion of these additional 34 costs may be covered by payments under our collaborative agreements, we bear all of the costs for our development candidates for which we have no financial support from a collaborator. we, our collaborators, the fda or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a drug candidate at any time if we or they believe the subjects or patients participating in such clinical trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. in november 2007, merck suspended enrollment in clinical trials of mk-0457 (vx-680), pending a full analysis of all efficacy and safety data of mk-0457 (vx-680). any such suspension could materially adversely impact the development of a particular drug candidate and our business. in addition, it is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted, or whether fda regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. if we experience any such problems, we may not have the financial resources to continue development of the drug candidate that is affected or the development of any of our other drug candidates. if our competitors bring superior drugs to market or bring their drugs to market before we do, we may be unable to find a market for our drug candidates. our drug candidates in development may not be able to compete effectively with drugs that are currently on the market or new drugs that may be developed by others. no assurances can be given that telaprevir will be approved for marketing prior to competing therapies, or at all. there are many other companies developing drugs for the same indications that we are pursuing in development in particular for the treatment of hcv infection. in order to compete successfully in these areas, we must demonstrate improved safety, efficacy and ease of manufacturing and gain market acceptance over competing drugs that may receive regulatory approval before or after our drug candidates, and over those that currently are marketed. many of our competitors, including major pharmaceutical companies such as glaxosmithkline, wyeth, pfizer, roche, amgen, novartis, johnson &amp; johnson and schering-plough possess substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we possess. in addition, many of our competitors have significantly greater experience than we have in conducting preclinical and nonclinical testing and human clinical trials of drug candidates, scaling up manufacturing operations and obtaining regulatory approvals of drugs and manufacturing facilities. accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for drugs more rapidly than we do. if we obtain regulatory approval and launch commercial sales of our drug candidates, we also will compete with respect to manufacturing efficiency and sales and marketing capabilities, areas in which we currently have limited experience. we believe that the first company that is able to successfully develop and obtain marketing approval for a new treatment for chronic hcv infection with significant advantages over the current standard of care may have a significant competitive advantage over later-approved therapies for hcv infection. we are aware of a number of companies that are developing new treatments for hcv infection including protease inhibitor compounds like telaprevir, polymerase inhibitor compounds and advanced interferons. even if we are able to obtain marketing approval for telaprevir, it is possible that one or more of these therapies could be approved prior to or shortly after we obtain such approval for telaprevir, which we believe could negatively impact telaprevir sales. if our processes and systems are not compliant with regulatory requirements, we could be subject to delays in filing ndas or restrictions on marketing of drugs after they have been approved. we currently are developing drug candidates for regulatory approval for the first time since our inception, and are in the process of implementing regulated processes and systems required to obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our drug candidates. certain of these processes and systems for conducting clinical trials and manufacturing material must be compliant with regulatory requirements before we can apply for regulatory approval for our drug candidates. these processes and systems will be subject to continual review and periodic inspection by the fda and other regulatory bodies. if we 35 are unable to achieve compliance in a timely fashion, or if compliance issues are identified at any point in the development and approval process, we may experience delays in filing for regulatory approval for our drug candidates, or delays in obtaining regulatory approval after filing. in addition, any later discovery of previously unknown problems or safety issues with approved drugs or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in restrictions on such drugs or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of drugs from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal penalties or a refusal by the fda and/or other regulatory bodies to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we are a party to agreements that transfer responsibility for complying with specified regulatory requirements, such as filing and maintenance of marketing authorizations and safety reporting or compliance with manufacturing requirements, to our collaborators and third-party manufacturers. if our collaborators or third-party manufacturers do not fulfill these regulatory obligations, any drugs for which we or they obtain approval may be withdrawn from the market, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. if we obtain regulatory approvals, our drug candidates will be subject to ongoing regulatory review. if we fail to comply with continuing united states and applicable foreign regulations, we could lose those approvals, and our business would be seriously harmed. if we receive regulatory approval of any drug candidates that we are developing, we will be subject to continuing regulatory review, including the review of clinical results that are reported after our drug candidates become commercially available, approved drugs. since drugs are more widely used by patients once approval has been obtained, side effects and other problems may be observed after approval that were not seen or anticipated during pre-approval clinical trials. in addition, the manufacturers and the manufacturing facilities we engage to make any of our drug candidates will also be subject to periodic review and inspection by the fda. the subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the drug, manufacturers or manufacturing facilities may result in restrictions on the drug, manufacturers or facilities, including withdrawal of the drug from the market or our inability to use the facilities to make our drug. if we fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval, product recalls and seizures, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. our drug development efforts are data-driven and therefore potentially subject to abrupt changes in expected outcomes. small molecule drug discovery and development involve, initially, the identification of chemical compounds that may have promise as treatments for specific diseases. once identified as drug candidates, compounds are subjected to years of testing in a laboratory setting, in animals and in humans. our ultimate objective is to determine whether the drug candidates have physical characteristics, both intrinsically and in animal and human systems, and a toxicological profile, that are compatible with clinical and commercial success in treatment of the disease being targeted. throughout this process, experiments are conducted and data are gathered that could reinforce a decision to move to the next step in the investigation process for a particular drug candidate, could result in uncertainty over the proper course to pursue, or could result in the termination of further drug development efforts with respect to the compound being evaluated. we monitor the results of our discovery research and our nonclinical studies and clinical trials and regularly evaluate and re-evaluate our portfolio investments with the objective of balancing risk and potential return in view of new data and scientific, business and commercial insights. this process can result in relatively abrupt changes in focus and priority as new information comes to light and we gain additional insights into ongoing programs and potential new programs. 36 we depend on our collaborators to work with us to develop, manufacture and commercialize many of our drug candidates. we have granted development and commercialization rights to telaprevir to janssen (worldwide other than north america and far east) and to mitsubishi tanabe (far east). we expect to receive significant financial support under our janssen collaboration agreement, as well as meaningful technical and manufacturing contributions to the telaprevir program. the success of some of our key in-house programs, such as for telaprevir, is dependent upon the continued financial and other support that our collaborators have agreed to provide. for some drug candidates on which we are not currently focusing our development efforts, we have granted worldwide rights to a collaborator, as in our collaborations with merck and avalon. the success of our collaborations depends on the efforts and activities of our collaborators. each of our collaborators has significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that it will apply to the collaboration. our existing collaborations may not be scientifically or commercially successful, and we may fail in our attempts to establish further collaborations to develop our drug candidates on acceptable terms. the risks that we face in connection with these existing and any future collaborations include the following: our collaboration agreements are subject to termination under various circumstances, including, as in the case of our agreements with janssen and merck, termination without cause. any such termination could have an adverse material effect on our financial condition and/or delay the development and commercial sale of our drug candidates, including telaprevir. our collaborators may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts. pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies historically have re-evaluated their development and commercialization priorities following mergers and consolidations, which have been common in recent years in these industries. the ability of some of our drug candidates to reach their potential could be limited if our collaborators decrease or fail to increase development or commercialization efforts related to those drug candidates. our collaboration agreements may have the effect of limiting the areas of research and development that we may pursue, either alone or in collaboration with third parties. our collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, drugs that are similar to or competitive with the drugs or drug candidates that are the subject of the collaboration with us. if we are unable to attract and retain collaborators for the development and commercialization of our drugs and drug candidates, we may not be able to fund our development and commercialization activities. our collaborators have agreed to fund portions of our pharmaceutical development programs and/or to conduct the development and commercialization of specified drug candidates and, if they are approved, drugs. in exchange, we have given them technology, sales and marketing rights relating to those drugs and drug candidates. some of our corporate collaborators have rights to control the planning and execution of drug development and clinical programs including for our aurora kinase inhibitor drug candidates, including mk-0457 (vx-680) and vx-689, and avn-944 (vx-944). our collaborators may exercise their control rights in ways that may negatively affect the timing and success of those programs. our collaborations are subject to termination rights by the collaborators. if any of our collaborators were to terminate its relationship with us, or fail to meet its contractual obligations, that action could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop, manufacture and market any drug candidates being developed under the collaboration. we expect to seek additional collaborative arrangements, which may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all, to develop and 37 commercialize our drug candidates in the future. we plan to seek a collaborator for our oral map kinase inhibitor vx-702 for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and other inflammatory diseases. no assurance can be given that these efforts will be successful. even if we are able to establish acceptable collaborative arrangements in the future, these collaborations may not be successful. our investment in the clinical development and manufacture of a commercial supply of telaprevir may not result in any benefit to us if telaprevir is not approved for commercial sale. we are investing significant resources in the clinical development of telaprevir. in 2006 and 2007, we increased our investment in telaprevir to support our phase 2b clinical development program and in 2008 we will be investing in our global registration program, including our phase 3 clinical trial. telaprevir is the first drug candidate for which we expect to perform all activities related to late stage development, drug supply, registration and commercialization in a major market. we are planning for and investing significant resources now in preparation for application for marketing approval, commercial supply and sales and marketing. we also expect to incur significant costs in 2008 to manufacture registration batches and invest in telaprevir commercial supply. our engagement in these resource-intensive activities could make it more difficult for us to maintain our portfolio focus, and puts significant investment at risk if we do not obtain regulatory approval and successfully commercialize telaprevir in north america. there is no assurance that our development of telaprevir will lead successfully to regulatory approval, or that obtaining regulatory approval will lead to commercial success. if telaprevir is not approved for commercial sale or if its development is delayed for any reason, our full investment in telaprevir may be at risk, we may face significant costs to dispose of unusable inventory, and our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. we depend on third-party manufacturers, including sole source suppliers, to manufacture clinical trial materials for clinical trials and expect to continue to rely on them to meet our commercial supply needs for any drug candidate that is approved for sale. we may not be able to establish or maintain these relationships and could experience disruptions outside of our control. we currently are relying on a worldwide network of third-party manufacturers to manufacture and distribute our drug candidates for clinical trials, and we expect that we will continue to do so to meet our commercial supply needs for these drugs, including telaprevir, if they are approved for sale. as a result of our reliance on these third-party manufacturers and suppliers, including sole source suppliers of certain components of our drug candidates and drugs, we may be subject to significant supply disruptions outside of our control. we will be responsible for supplying telaprevir for sale in north america if we are successful in obtaining marketing approval. establishing the commercial supply chain for telaprevir is a multi-step international endeavor involving the purchase of several raw materials, the application of certain manufacturing processes requiring significant lead times, the conversion of active pharmaceutical ingredient to tablet form and the packaging of tablets for distribution. we expect to source raw materials, drug substance and drug product, including finished packaging, from third parties located in china, the european union, japan and the united states, and we currently are establishing and expanding those third-party relationships. establishing and providing quality assurance for this global supply chain requires a significant financial commitment, experienced personnel and the creation or expansion of numerous third-party contractual relationships. while we believe that there are multiple third parties that are capable of providing the materials and services that we need in order to manufacture and distribute telaprevir, if it is approved for sale, some of these services are in high demand and capacity is constrained. because of the significant lead times involved in the manufacture and supply of telaprevir, we may have less flexibility to adjust our supply in response to changes in demand than if we had shorter lead times. there can be no assurance that we will be able to establish 38 and maintain this commercial supply chain on commercially reasonable terms in order to support a timely launch of telaprevir or at all. we plan to identify and enter into commercial relationships with multiple third-party manufacturers in order to reduce the risk of supply chain disruption by limiting our reliance on any one manufacturer. in addition, we are in the process of transferring technical information regarding the manufacture of telaprevir to janssen so that janssen will be able to manufacture telaprevir, if approved, for sale in janssen's territories and as a secondary source for us. there is no assurance, however, that we will be able to establish second sources for each stage of manufacturing of telaprevir, or any other drug or drug candidate, or that any second source will be able to produce sufficient quantities in the required timeframe to avoid a supply chain disruption if there is a problem with one of our suppliers. even if we successfully establish arrangements with third-party manufacturers, supply disruptions may result from a number of factors including shortages in product raw materials, labor or technical difficulties, regulatory inspections or restrictions, shipping or customs delays or any other performance failure by any third-party manufacturer on which we rely. any supply disruptions could impact the timing of our clinical trials and the commercial launch of any approved pharmaceutical drugs. furthermore, we may be required to modify our production methods to permit us to economically manufacture our drugs for commercial launch and sale. these modifications may require us to reevaluate our resources and the resources of our third-party manufacturers, which could result in abrupt changes in our production methods and supplies. upon approval of a pharmaceutical drug for sale, if any, we similarly may be at risk of supply chain disruption for our commercial drug supply. in the course of its services, a contract manufacturer may develop process technology related to the manufacture of our drug candidates that the manufacturer owns, either independently or jointly with us. this would increase our reliance on that manufacturer or require us to obtain a license from that manufacturer in order to have our products manufactured by other suppliers utilizing the same process. we rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such trials. we do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for our drug candidates, and we rely on third parties such as contract research organizations, medical institutions and clinical investigators to enroll qualified patients and conduct our clinical trials. our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. accordingly, these third-party contractors may not complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our trial design. if these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be required to replace them. although we believe that there are a number of other third-party contractors we could engage to continue these activities, it may result in a delay of the affected trial. accordingly, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize our drug candidates could be delayed. if we are unable to develop independent sales and marketing capabilities or establish third-party relationships for the commercialization of our drug candidates, we will not be able to successfully commercialize our drug candidates even if we are able to obtain regulatory approval. we currently have limited experience as a company in sales and marketing or with respect to pricing and obtaining adequate third-party reimbursement for drugs. glaxosmithkline currently markets lexiva/telzir. we will need to either develop marketing capabilities and an independent sales force or enter into arrangements with third parties to sell and market any of our drug candidates if they are approved for sale by regulatory authorities. 39 in order to market telaprevir in north america if it is approved, we intend to build a marketing organization and a direct sales force, which will require substantial efforts and significant management and financial resources. during 2008, we intend to commit significant personnel and financial resources to this effort, staging our commitments to the extent possible in consideration of the ongoing telaprevir development timeline. we will need to devote significant effort, in particular, to recruiting individuals with experience in the sales and marketing of pharmaceutical products. competition for personnel with these skills is intense and may be particularly difficult for us since telaprevir is still an investigational drug candidate and we will be competing with companies that are currently marketing successful drugs. as a result, we may not be able to successfully develop our own marketing capabilities or independent sales force for telaprevir in north america in order to support an effective launch of telaprevir if it is approved for sale. we have granted commercialization rights to other pharmaceutical companies with respect to certain of our drug candidates in specific geographic locations, including telaprevir (janssen worldwide except for north america and the far east, and mitsubishi tanabe in the far east), aurora kinase inhibitors (merck worldwide) and avn-944 (vx-944) (avalon worldwide). to the extent that our collaborators have commercial rights to our drugs, any revenues we receive from any approved drugs will depend primarily on the sales and marketing efforts of others. we do not know whether we will be able to enter into additional third-party sales and marketing arrangements with respect to any of our other drug candidates on acceptable terms, if at all, or whether we will be able to leverage the sales and marketing capabilities we intend to build for telaprevir in order to market and sell any other drug candidate if it is approved for sale. we do not know whether lexiva/telzir will continue to be competitive in the market for hiv protease inhibitors. we currently receive royalties from net sales of lexiva/telzir under our collaboration with glaxosmithkline. lexiva/telzir's share of the worldwide protease inhibitor market may decrease due to competitive forces and market dynamics. other hiv protease inhibitors including bristol-myers squibbs' reyataz&reg; and abbott laboratories' kaletra&reg;, and a number of other products are on the market for the treatment of hiv infection and aids. other drugs are still in development by our competitors, including bristol-myers squibb, boehringer ingelheim merck, and johnson &amp; johnson, which may have better efficacy, fewer side effects, easier administration and/or lower costs than lexiva/telzir. moreover, the growth in the worldwide market for hiv protease inhibitors has, to a certain extent, occurred as a result of early and aggressive treatment of hiv infection with a protease inhibitor-based regimen. changes in treatment strategy, in which treatment is initiated later in the course of infection, or in which treatment is more often initiated with a regimen that does not include a protease inhibitor, may result in reduced use of hiv protease inhibitors. as a result, the total market for hiv protease inhibitors may decline, decreasing the sales potential of lexiva/telzir. further, glaxosmithkline directs the marketing and sales efforts and the positioning of lexiva/telzir in the overall market, and we have little control over the direction or success of those efforts. glaxosmithkline has the right to terminate its agreement with us without cause upon twelve months' notice, and would have no obligation to pay further royalties to us upon any such termination. risks associated with our international business relationships could materially adversely affect our business. we have manufacturing, collaborative and clinical trial relationships, and we and our collaborators are seeking approval for our drug candidates, outside the united states. in addition, we expect that if telaprevir is approved for commercial sale, a significant portion of our commercial supply chain, including sourcing of raw materials and manufacturing, will be located in china, japan and european union. consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to risks related to operating in foreign countries. risks associated with conducting operations in foreign countries include: differing regulatory requirements for drug approvals in foreign countries; 40 unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements; economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees living or traveling abroad; foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes; foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses or reduced revenues, and other obligations incident to doing business or operating a subsidiary in another country; workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the united states; production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism. these and other risks associated with our international operations could materially adversely affect our business. if we are unable to realize the expected benefits of our drug discovery capabilities and other technologies, we may not be able to compete in the marketplace. the pharmaceutical research field is characterized by rapid technological progress and intense competition. as a result, we may not realize the expected benefits from our integrated drug discovery capabilities and technologies. for example, a large pharmaceutical company, with significantly more resources than we have, could pursue a systematic approach to the discovery of drugs based on gene families, using proprietary drug targets, compound libraries, novel chemical approaches, structural protein analysis and information technologies. such a company might identify broadly applicable compound classes faster and more effectively than we do. further, we believe that interest in the application of structure-based drug design, parallel drug design and related approaches has accelerated as the strategies have become more widely understood. businesses, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations are conducting research to develop technologies that may compete with those we use. it is possible that our competitors could acquire or develop technologies that would render our technology obsolete or noncompetitive. for example, a competitor could develop information technologies that accelerate the atomic-level analysis of potential compounds that bind to the active site of a drug target, and predict the absorption, toxicity, and relative ease-of-synthesis of candidate compounds. if we were unable to access the same technologies at an acceptable price, our business could be adversely affected. if we fail to expand our human resources and manage our growth effectively, our business may suffer. we expect that if our clinical drug candidates continue to progress in development, we continue to build our commercial organization and our drug discovery efforts continue to generate drug candidates, we will require significant additional investment in personnel, management systems and resources. for example, the number of our full-time employees increased by 20% in 2007, and we expect to experience significant growth in 2008. our ability to commercialize our drug candidates, achieve our research and development objectives, and satisfy our commitments under our collaboration agreements depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands and expand our internal organization to accommodate additional anticipated growth. if we are unable to manage our growth effectively, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. 41 the loss of the services of key employees or the failure to hire qualified employees would negatively impact our business and future growth. because our drug discovery and development activities are highly technical in nature, we require the services of highly qualified and trained scientists who have the skills necessary to conduct these activities. in addition, as we attempt to grow our capabilities with respect to clinical development, regulatory affairs, quality control and sales and marketing, we will need to attract and retain employees with experience in these fields. our future success will depend in large part on the continued services of our key scientific and management personnel. we have entered into employment agreements with some individuals and provide compensation-related benefits to all of our key employees that vest over time and therefore induce them to remain with us. however, the employment agreements can be terminated by the employee on relatively short notice. the value to employees of stock-related benefits that vest over time such as options and restricted stock will be significantly affected by movements in our stock price that we cannot control, and may at any point in time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. we face intense competition for our personnel from our competitors, our collaborators and other companies throughout our industry. moreover, the growth of local biotechnology companies and the expansion of major pharmaceutical companies into the boston area have increased competition for the available pool of skilled employees, especially in technical fields, and the high cost of living in the boston and san diego areas makes it difficult to attract employees from other parts of the country to these areas. a failure to retain, as well as hire, train and effectively integrate into our organization a sufficient number of qualified scientists, professionals and sales personnel would negatively affect our business and our ability to grow our business. if our patents do not protect our drugs, or our drugs infringe third-party patents, we could be subject to litigation and substantial liabilities. we have numerous patent applications pending in the united states, as well as foreign counterparts in other countries. our success will depend, in significant part, on our ability to obtain and maintain united states and foreign patent protection for our drugs, their uses and our processes, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. we do not know whether any patents will issue from any of our patent applications or, even if patents issue or have issued, that the issued claims will provide us with any significant protection against competitive products or otherwise be valuable commercially. legal standards relating to the validity of patents and the proper scope of their claims in the pharmaceutical field are still evolving, and there is no consistent law or policy regarding the valid breadth of claims in biopharmaceutical patents or the effect of prior art on them. if we are not able to obtain adequate patent protection, our ability to prevent competitors from making, using and selling similar drugs will be limited. furthermore, our activities may infringe the claims of patents held by third parties. defense and prosecution of infringement or other intellectual property claims, as well as participation in other inter-party proceedings, can be expensive and time-consuming, regardless of whether or not the outcome is favorable to us. if the outcome of any such litigation or proceeding were adverse, we could be subject to significant liabilities to third parties, could be required to obtain licenses from third parties or could be required to cease sales of affected drugs, any of which outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business. if physicians, patients and third-party payors do not accept our future drugs, we may be unable to generate significant revenue, if any. even if our drug candidates obtain regulatory approval, they may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and health care payors. physicians may elect not to recommend our drugs for a variety of reasons including: the timing of the market introduction of competitive drugs; 42 lower demonstrated clinical safety and efficacy compared to other drugs; lack of cost-effectiveness; lack of availability of reimbursement from third-party payors; convenience and ease of administration; prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; other potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; and ineffective marketing and distribution support. if our approved drugs fail to achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to generate significant revenue. if the government and other third-party payors fail to provide coverage and adequate payment rates for our future drugs, our revenue and prospects for profitability will be harmed. in both domestic and foreign markets, our sales of any future drugs will depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. such third-party payors include government health programs such as medicare, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. these third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by demanding price discounts or rebates and limiting both the types and variety of drugs that they will cover and the amounts that they will pay for these drugs. as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our future drugs. we might need to conduct post-marketing studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of any future drugs to such payors' satisfaction. such studies might require us to commit a significant amount of management time and financial and other resources. our future drugs might not ultimately be considered cost-effective. adequate third-party reimbursement might not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on investment in product development. reimbursement rates may vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost products that are already reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other products or services, and may reflect budgetary constraints and/or imperfections in medicare or medicaid data used to calculate these rates. net prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs. in addition, legislation has been introduced in congress that, if enacted, would permit more widespread importation of drugs from foreign countries into the united states, which may include importation from countries where the drugs are sold at lower prices than in the united states. such legislation, or similar regulatory changes or relaxation of laws that restrict imports of drugs from other countries, could reduce the net price we receive for our marketed drugs. our business has a substantial risk of product liability claims. if we are unable to obtain appropriate levels of insurance, a product liability claim could adversely affect our business. our business exposes us to significant potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, manufacturing and sales and marketing of human therapeutic products. we currently have clinical trial insurance and will seek to obtain product liability insurance prior to the sales and marketing of any of our drug candidates. however, our insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. furthermore, clinical trial and product liability insurance is becoming increasingly expensive. as a result, we may be unable to maintain current amounts of insurance coverage or obtain additional or sufficient insurance at a reasonable cost to protect against losses that could have a material adverse effect on us. if a claim is brought against us, we might be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as uncovered damages awards resulting from 43 a claim brought successfully against us. furthermore, whether or not we are ultimately successful in defending any such claims, we might be required to direct significant financial and managerial resources to such defense, and adverse publicity is likely to result. if we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected. our research and development efforts involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. if an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. we are also subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. although we maintain workers' compensation insurance to cover us for costs we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. due to the small amount of hazardous materials that we generate, we have determined that the cost to secure insurance coverage for environmental liability and toxic tort claims far exceeds the benefits. accordingly, we do not maintain any insurance to cover pollution conditions or other extraordinary or unanticipated events relating to our use and disposal of hazardous materials. additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. we may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations. we have adopted anti-takeover provisions and are subject to massachusetts corporate laws that may frustrate any attempt to remove or replace our current management. our corporate charter and by-law provisions, massachusetts state laws, and stockholder rights plan may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change of control of vertex that might be beneficial to us or our security holders. our charter provides for staggered terms for the members of the board of directors. our by-laws grant the directors a right to adjourn annual meetings of stockholders, and certain provisions of the by-laws may be amended only with an 80% stockholder vote. pursuant to our stockholder rights plan, each share of common stock has an associated preferred share purchase right. the rights will not trade separately from the common stock until, and are exercisable only upon, the acquisition or the potential acquisition through tender offer by a person or group of 15% or more of the outstanding common stock. we may issue shares of any class or series of preferred stock in the future without stockholder approval and upon such terms as our board of directors may determine. the rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any class or series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. massachusetts state law prohibits us from engaging in specified business combinations, unless the combination is approved or consummated in a prescribed manner, and prohibits voting by any stockholder who acquires 20% or more of our voting stock without stockholder approval. as a result, stockholders or other parties may find it more difficult to remove or replace our current management. our stock price may fluctuate based on factors beyond our control. market prices for securities of companies such as vertex are highly volatile. from january 1, 2007 to february 8, 2008, our common stock traded between $17.59 and $41.42 per share. the market for our stock, like that of other companies in the biotechnology field, has from time to time experienced 44 significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to our operating performance. the future market price of our securities could be significantly and adversely affected by factors such as: announcements of results of clinical trials or nonclinical studies relating to our drug candidates or those of our competitors; announcements of financial results and other operating performance measures, or capital structuring or financing activities; technological innovations or the introduction of new drugs by our competitors; government regulatory action; public concern as to the safety of drugs developed by others; developments in patent or other intellectual property rights or announcements relating to these matters; developments in domestic and international governmental policy or regulation, for example relating to intellectual property rights; and developments relating specifically to other companies and market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks or stocks in general. our estimates of our liability under our kendall square lease may be inaccurate. we leased a 290,000 square foot facility in kendall square, cambridge, massachusetts in january 2003 for a 15-year term. we currently are occupying approximately 120,000 square feet of the facility. we have sublease arrangements in place for the remaining rentable square footage of the facility. in determining our obligations under the lease for the portion of the facility that we are not occupying, we have made certain assumptions relating to the time necessary to sublease the space after the expiration of the initial subleases, projected future sublease rental rates and the anticipated durations of future subleases. our estimates have changed in the past, and may change in the future, resulting in additional adjustments to the estimate of liability, and the effect of any such adjustments could be material. government investigations or litigation against our collaborators could adversly affect our business. the federal government, certain state governments and private payors are investigating and have begun to file actions against numerous pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies alleging that the reporting of prices for pharmaceutical products has resulted in a false and overstated average wholesale price, or awp, which in turn is alleged to have improperly inflated the reimbursement paid by medicare beneficiaries, insurers, state medicaid programs, medical plans and others to health care providers who prescribed and administered those products. some payors are also alleging that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are not reporting their "best price" to the states under the medicaid program. in addition, recent government litigation against pharmaceutical companies has focused on allegations of off-label promotion in connection with the filing of false claims for government reimbursement. in any awp cases or other cases brought by the government where our collaborators or licensees are named as defendants with respect to any products licensed from us, the outcome of the case could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. sales of additional shares of our common stock could cause the price of our common stock to decline. sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market, or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. in addition, the issuance of restricted common stock or common stock upon exercise of any outstanding option would be dilutive, 45 and may cause the market price for a share of our common stock to decline. as of december 31, 2007, we had approximately 132.9 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. we also had outstanding options to purchase approximately 15.4 million shares of common stock with a weighted-average exercise price of $28.70 per share. outstanding options may be exercised if the market price of our common stock exceeds the applicable exercise price. we may issue additional common stock or restricted securities in the future as part of our financing activities and any such issuances may have a dilutive effect on existing shareholders. special note regarding forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k and, in particular, the description of our business set forth in item 1, the risk factors set forth in this item 1a and our management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations set forth in item 7 contain or incorporate a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding: our expectations regarding clinical trials, development timelines and regulatory authority filings for telaprevir and other drug candidates under development by us and our collaborators; our expectations regarding the number of patients that will be evaluated, the trial design that will be utilized, the anticipated date by which enrollment will commence and/or be completed and the expected date by which svr data and/or interim data will be available for our phase 3 clinical trial of telaprevir, the planned clinical trial to evaluate 48-week telaprevir-based treatment regimens in approximately 400 patients, the prove 1, prove 2 and prove 3 clinical trials, the phase 2b clinical trials of telaprevir being conducted by tibotec, the phase 2a and planned phase 2b clinical trial of vx-770, the phase 1a and planned phase 1b clinical trial of vx-809, the phase 1a clinical trial of vx-500, the planned clinical trial of vx-813, and the clinical trials being conducted by our collaborators of drug candidates for the treatment of cancer; the data that will be generated by ongoing and planned clinical trials, and the ability to use that data for the design and initiation of further clinical trials and to support regulatory filings, including potentially an nda for telaprevir; our expectations regarding the potential of our ongoing and planned clinical trials of telaprevir to meet the anticipated registration requirements with respect to the number and design of the clinical trials and the number of patients that will be part of the safety database of patients that have received 12 weeks of telaprevir; the design of our global clinical program for telaprevir and our ability to potentially register telaprevir across a range of genotypes and patient populations; our expectations regarding the future market demand and medical need for telaprevir and our other drug candidates; our ability to retain greater development control of, and commercial rights to, drug candidates by funding a greater portion of our research programs; our beliefs regarding the support provided by clinical trials and preclinical and nonclinical studies of our drug candidates for further investigation, clinical trials or potential use as a treatment of those drug candidates; our ability to capitalize on the advances in our telaprevir clinical program by building our drug development, supply chain management and commercialization organizations in order to prepare for the potential commercial launch of telaprevir and to support the development of our other drug candidates; 46 our business strategy, including: our plan to invest in our development of telaprevir in order to maintain the time-to-market advantage we believe we have in relation to drug candidates being developed by our competitors; our ability to establish a leadership position with respect to treatment of hcv infection; and our ability to expand the value of our portfolio of drug candidates; the focus of our drug development efforts; the establishment, development and maintenance of collaborative relationships; our ability to use our research programs to identify and develop new drug candidates to address series diseases and significant unmet medical needs; our ability to increase our headcount and scale up our drug development and commercialization capabilities; our estimates regarding obligations associated with a lease of a facility in kendall square, cambridge, massachusetts; the potential for the acquisition of new and complementary technologies, resources and drugs or drug candidates; and our liquidity. any or all of our forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k may turn out to be wrong. they can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. many factors mentioned in this annual report on form 10-k will be important in determining future results. consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. actual future results may vary materially from expected results. we also provide a cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties under "risk factors" in item 1a of this annual report. these are factors that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results. other factors besides those listed there could also adversely affect us. without limiting the foregoing, the words "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "expects" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. there are a number of factors that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control, including the factors set forth under "risk factors" in item 1a of this annual report on form 10-k. in addition, the forward-looking statements contained herein represent our estimate only as of the date of this filing and should not be relied upon as representing our estimate as of any subsequent date. while we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 71 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk as part of our investment portfolio, we own financial instruments that are sensitive to market risks. the investment portfolio is used to preserve our capital until it is required to fund operations, including our research and development activities. none of these market risk-sensitive instruments are held for trading purposes. we do not have derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. interest rate risk we invest our cash in a variety of financial instruments, principally securities issued by the united states government and its agencies, investment grade corporate bonds and notes and money market instruments. these investments are denominated in united states dollars. all of our interest-bearing securities are subject to interest rate risk, and could decline in value if interest rates fluctuate. substantially all of our investment portfolio consists of marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to help ensure portfolio liquidity, and we have implemented guidelines limiting the term-to-maturity of our investment instruments. due to the conservative nature of these instruments, we do not believe that we have a material exposure to interest rate risk. 71risk factors 27 risk factors risk factors investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk, and you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k. if any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer, possibly materially. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. we expect to incur future losses, and we may never become profitable. we have incurred significant operating losses each year since our inception, including net losses of $459.9 million, $391.3 million and $206.9 million during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and expect to incur a significant operating loss in 2009. we expect to continue to incur operating losses until we are able to obtain approval for and successfully commercialize telaprevir, because we are continuing to incur significant operating expenses as we continue the late-stage development of our advanced drug candidates, including telaprevir and vx-770, and continue to invest in research activities. as a result, we believe that it is likely that our expenses will exceed our revenues at least until we begin receiving substantial product revenues. there can be no assurance that any of our drug candidates will be approved or, if approved, will be commercially successful. our net losses have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on, among other things, our stockholders' equity, total assets and working capital. we expect that losses will fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year, and that such fluctuations may be substantial. we cannot predict when we will become profitable, if ever. we depend heavily on the success of our lead drug candidate, telaprevir, which is still under development. if we are unable to commercialize telaprevir, or experience delays in doing so, our business will be materially harmed. we are investing a substantial portion of our personnel and financial resources in the development of telaprevir, and we believe that a significant portion of the value of our company relates to the commercial potential of telaprevir. the clinical development and commercial success of telaprevir will depend on several factors, including the following: successful completion of clinical trials with favorable outcomes relative to current standards of care and future competitive therapies; receipt and timing of marketing approvals for telaprevir from the fda and similar foreign regulatory authorities; receipt and timing of marketing approvals from the fda and similar foreign regulatory authorities for products being developed for the treatment of hcv by our competitors, including schering-plough's boceprevir; additional discussions with the fda and similar foreign authorities regarding the scope and design of our clinical trials, the quality of our manufacturing process for telaprevir and our clinical trial results; establishing and maintaining commercial manufacturing arrangements for telaprevir with third-party manufacturers that are subject to extensive regulation by the fda, and successfully monitoring those manufacturing operations to ensure they meet our standards and those of regulatory authorities, including the fda, that extensively monitor pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities; our ability to establish telaprevir if approved, as a significant component of any oral combination therapies that may be approved as a treatment for hcv; 27 table of contents launching commercial sales of telaprevir by us and our collaborators; the efficacy and other characteristics, including the side effect profile, of telaprevir relative to existing and future treatments for hcv; our ability to increase awareness of the benefits of early treatment for hcv if telaprevir is approved, and to increase the rates of diagnosis of currently undiagnosed patients with hcv infection; and acceptance of telaprevir by patients, and in the medical community and with third-party payors. if the data from our ongoing clinical trials or non-clinical studies regarding the safety or efficacy of telaprevir are not favorable, we may be forced to delay or terminate the clinical development of telaprevir, which would materially harm our business. further, even if we gain marketing approvals from the fda and comparable foreign regulatory authorities in a timely manner, we cannot be sure that telaprevir will be commercially successful in the pharmaceutical market. if the results of clinical trials of telaprevir, the anticipated or actual timing of marketing approvals for telaprevir, or the market acceptance of telaprevir, if approved, including treatment reimbursement levels agreed to by third-party payors, do not meet the expectations of investors or public market analysts, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. we need to raise additional capital that may not be available. we expect to incur substantial expenses as we design and develop existing and future compounds, undertake clinical trials of drug candidates resulting from such compounds, and build our drug supply, regulatory, development and commercial capabilities. we also expect to incur substantial administrative and commercialization expenses in the future. in particular, we expect the continuing development and commercialization of telaprevir to require additional capital beyond our current resources. we anticipate that we will finance these substantial cash needs with some combination of: public offerings or private placements of our debt or equity securities or other methods of financing; cash received from our existing collaborative agreements; cash received from future collaborative agreements; existing cash reserves, together with interest earned on those reserves; and future product sales. while we believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities would be sufficient to fund our operations for the next twelve months, we may raise additional capital in 2009 and thereafter through public offerings or private placements of our debt or equity securities. any such capital transactions may or may not be similar to transactions that we have completed in the past. any equity financings could result in dilution to our then-existing security holders. any debt financing may be on terms that, among other things, restrict our ability to pay interest and dividends although we do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be required to curtail significantly or discontinue one or more of our research, drug discovery or development programs, including clinical trials, incur significant cash exit costs, or attempt to obtain funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, drugs or drug candidates. based on many factors, including general economic conditions, additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. 28 table of contents all of our drug candidates remain subject to clinical testing and regulatory approval. if we are unable to successfully develop and test our drug candidates, we will not be successful. the success of our business depends primarily upon our ability, and our collaborators' ability, to develop and commercialize our drug candidates, including telaprevir, successfully. due to the development efforts of our competitors, in order to be successful in a therapeutic area it is often necessary to develop follow-on compounds and/or develop new combination therapies. our drug candidates are in various stages of development and must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before they can be approved by the fda or other regulatory authorities for sale. to satisfy these standards, we and/or our collaborators must allocate our resources among our various development programs and must engage in expensive and lengthy testing of our drug candidates. these discovery and development efforts for a new pharmaceutical product, including follow-on compounds, are resource-intensive, and may take 10 to 15 years or more. despite our efforts, our drug candidates may not: offer therapeutic or other improvement over existing competitive drugs; be proven safe and effective in clinical trials; meet applicable regulatory standards; be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs; or if approved for commercial sale, be successfully marketed as pharmaceutical products. positive results in preclinical studies of a drug candidate may not be predictive of similar results in humans during clinical trials, and promising results from earlier clinical trials of a drug candidate may not be replicated in later clinical trials. findings, including toxicology findings, in nonclinical studies conducted concurrently with clinical trials could result in abrupt changes in our development activities, including the possible cessation of development activities associated with a particular drug candidate or program. furthermore, results from our clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the fda or other regulatory authorities for approval of a drug candidate. we and many other companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in earlier-stage clinical trials. accordingly, the results from the completed preclinical studies and clinical trials and ongoing clinical trials for our drug candidates may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later stage trials, and may not be predictive of the likelihood of approval of a drug candidate for commercial sale. in addition, from time to time, we report interim data from our clinical trials, including with respect to telaprevir data regarding patients' hcv rna levels during treatment, at the end-of-treatment or 12 weeks after completing treatment. interim data are subject to change, and there can be no assurances that interim data will be confirmed upon the analysis of final data. in addition, interim data with respect to a patient's hcv rna levels may not be predictive of the final svr rates that will be achieved in the clinical trial. if we are unable to obtain united states and/or foreign regulatory approval, we will be unable to commercialize our drug candidates. our drug candidates are subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to their development, clinical trials, manufacturing and commercialization. rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory approval process are required in the united states and in most other countries prior to the commercial sale of our drug candidates. satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. it is possible that none of the drug candidates we are developing independently, or in collaboration with others, will be approved for marketing. 29 table of contents we have limited experience in conducting and managing the late-stage clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals, including approval by the fda. the time required to complete clinical trials and to satisfy the fda and other countries' regulatory review processes is uncertain and typically takes many years. our analysis of data obtained from preclinical and clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. we may also encounter unanticipated delays or increased costs due to government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in fda policy during the period of drug development, clinical trials and fda regulatory review. any delay in obtaining or failure to obtain required approvals could materially adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize any drug candidate. furthermore, any regulatory approval to market a drug may be subject to limitations that we do not currently expect on the indicated uses for which we may market the drug. any such limitations could limit the size of the market for the drug. we are also subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement. the foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with the fda approval process described above, as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of foreign requirements. approval by the fda does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities outside the united states. foreign jurisdictions may have different approval procedures than those required by the fda and may impose additional testing requirements for our drug candidates. we are investing significant resources in our development program for vx-770, based primarily on data from a relatively small clinical trial in which patients received vx-770 over a short duration. if we are unable to show the safety and efficacy of vx-770, or experience delays in doing so, our business could be materially harmed. we are increasing the resources that we are investing in the development of vx-770 and expect to begin a registration program for vx-770 focused on cf patients with the g551d mutation in the first half of 2009. we are initiating this registration program based primarily on data from a phase 2a clinical trial of vx-770 in 39 patients with cf, in which patients received vx-770 over 14-day and 28-day periods. in order to receive approval for vx-770, we will need to show that it is safe and effective in a larger number of patients than were involved in the phase 2a clinical trial over significantly longer dosing periods. in addition, our registration program for vx-770 will include two pediatric patient populations in which vx-770 has not previously been studied. since a substantial portion of the cf population is under age 18, vx-770 potential commercial success will be dependent on not only being able to obtain approval for adult patients, but also for pediatric patients. if we are unable to show the safety and efficacy of vx-770, or experience delays in doing so, our business could be materially harmed. our outstanding indebtedness may make it more difficult to obtain additional financing or reduce our flexibility to act in our best interests. as of december 31, 2008, we had outstanding $287.5 million in aggregate principal amount of 4.75% convertible senior subordinated notes due 2013, or 2013 notes. the level of our indebtedness could affect us by: exposing us to fixed rates of interest, which may be in excess of prevailing market rates; making it more difficult to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; constraining our ability to react quickly in an unfavorable economic climate or to changes in our business or the pharmaceutical industry; or 30 table of contents requiring the dedication of substantial cash to service the semi-annual interest payments on our outstanding debt, thereby reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes. issuances of additional shares of our common stock could cause the price of our common stock to decline. sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market, or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. in addition, the issuance of restricted common stock or common stock upon exercise of any outstanding option would be dilutive, and may cause the market price for a share of our common stock to decline. as of december 31, 2008, we had approximately 151.2 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. we also had outstanding options to purchase approximately 16.5 million shares of common stock with a weighted-average exercise price of $29.16 per share and 12.4 million shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of our outstanding 2013 notes at a conversion price of approximately $23.14 of aggregate principal amount per share. outstanding vested options could be exercised if the market price of our common stock exceeds the applicable exercise price. in addition, we may issue additional common stock or restricted securities in the future as part of our financing activities or business development activities and any such issuances may have a dilutive effect on existing shareholders. the results from our clinical development activities and the clinical development activities of our competitors are released periodically, and have often resulted in significant volatility in the price of our common stock. we, our collaborators and our competitors periodically provide updates regarding drug development programs typically through press releases, conference calls and presentations at medical conferences. these periodic updates often include interim or final results from clinical trials conducted by us, our collaborators or our competitors and/or information about our or our competitor's expectations regarding future clinical development of our drug candidates or potentially competitive drugs or drug candidates. the timing of the release of information by us regarding our drug development programs is often beyond our control and is influenced by when we receive data from our clinical trials and by the general preference among pharmaceutical companies to disclose clinical data during medical conferences. in addition, because clinical trials of drug candidates for the treatment of hcv often occur over two years, the information that we, our collaborators and our competitors disclose is often based on interim data and subject to significant interpretation by investors. any new information regarding drug candidates or potentially competitive drugs or drug candidates, and in particular any new information regarding telaprevir and potentially competitive hcv drug candidates, can substantially affect investors' perceptions regarding our future prospects. if clinical trials for our drug candidates are prolonged or delayed, we may be unable to commercialize our drug candidates on a timely basis, which would require us to incur additional costs, would delay our receipt of any product revenue and could harm our competitive position. we cannot predict whether or not we will encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause us or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend clinical trials, or delay the analysis of data from our completed or ongoing clinical trials. any of the following could delay the clinical development of our drug candidates: ongoing discussions with the fda or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials and the number of clinical trials we must conduct; delays in receiving or the inability to obtain required approvals from irbs at one or more of the institutions at which a clinical trial is conducted or other reviewing entities at clinical sites selected for participation in our clinical trials; 31 table of contents delays in enrolling volunteers or patients into clinical trials, including as a result of low numbers of patients that meet the eligibility criteria for the trial; a lower than anticipated retention rate of volunteers or patients in clinical trials; the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive results or unforeseen complications in testing; inadequate supply or deficient quality of drug candidate materials or other materials necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials; unfavorable fda inspection and review of a manufacturing facility for a drug candidate or its relevant manufacturing records or a clinical trial site or records of any clinical or preclinical investigation; serious and unexpected drug-related side effects experienced by participants in our clinical trials; or the placement by the fda of a clinical hold on a trial. our ability to enroll patients in our clinical trials in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis will be subject to a number of factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the number of other clinical trials competing for patients in the same indication and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. in addition, subjects may drop out of our clinical trials or may be lost to follow-up medical evaluation after treatment ends, and this could possibly impair the validity or statistical significance of the trials. delays in patient enrollment or unforeseen drop-out rates may result in increased costs and longer development times. while all or a portion of these additional costs may be covered by payments under our collaborative agreements, we bear all of the costs for our development candidates for which we have no financial support from a collaborator. we, our collaborators, the fda or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a drug candidate at any time if we or they believe the subjects or patients participating in such clinical trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. any such suspension could materially adversely affect the development of a particular drug candidate and our business. in addition, it is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted, or whether fda regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. if we experience any such problems, we may not have the financial resources to continue development of the drug candidate that is affected or the development of any of our other drug candidates. any delay in the approval of any of our drug candidates, including telaprevir, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to effectively commercialize the drug candidate after approval if one or more of our competitors are able to bring competing therapies to market before or in closer proximity to our drug candidates. if we are unable to develop effective independent sales and marketing capabilities or establish third-party relationships for the commercialization of our drug candidates, we will not be able to successfully commercialize our drug candidates, and in particular telaprevir, even if we are able to obtain regulatory approval. we currently have limited experience as a company in sales and marketing or with respect to pricing and obtaining adequate third-party reimbursement for drugs. we will need to either develop marketing capabilities and an independent sales force or enter into arrangements with third parties to sell and market our drug candidates, if they are approved for sale by regulatory authorities. in order to market telaprevir in north america if it is approved, we intend to build a marketing organization and a specialized sales force, which will require substantial efforts and significant 32 table of contents management and financial resources. in addition, if vx-770 is approved, we would also need to establish a small sales force in north america and europe for vx-770. while we intend to stage our commitments to the extent possible in consideration of the development timelines, in order to support an effective launch of telaprevir, we will need to make significant financial commitments to our marketing organization prior to receiving regulatory approval. we will need to devote significant effort, in particular, to recruiting individuals with experience in the sales and marketing of pharmaceutical products. competition for personnel with these skills is very high and may be particularly difficult for us since telaprevir is still an investigational drug candidate and we will be competing with companies that are currently marketing successful drugs. as a result, we may not be able to successfully develop our own marketing capabilities or independent sales force for telaprevir in north america in order to support an effective launch of telaprevir if it is approved for sale. we have granted commercialization rights to other pharmaceutical companies with respect to certain of our drug candidates in specific geographic locations, including telaprevir, aurora kinase inhibitors and avn-944 (vx-944). to the extent that our collaborators have commercial rights to our drugs, any revenues we receive from any approved drugs will depend primarily on the sales and marketing efforts of others. we do not know whether we will be able to enter into additional third-party sales and marketing arrangements with respect to any of our other drug candidates on acceptable terms, if at all, or whether we will be able to leverage the sales and marketing capabilities we intend to build for telaprevir in order to market and sell any other drug candidate if it is approved for sale. if our competitors bring superior drugs to market or bring their drugs to market before we do, we may be unable to find a market for our drug candidates. our drug candidates in development may not be able to compete effectively with drugs that are currently on the market or new drugs that may be developed by others. no assurances can be given that telaprevir will be approved for marketing prior to competing therapies, including schering-plough's boceprevir, or at all. there are many other companies developing drugs for the same indications that we are pursuing in development in particular for the treatment of hcv infection. in order to compete successfully in these areas, we must demonstrate improved safety, efficacy and ease of manufacturing and gain market acceptance over competing drugs that may receive regulatory approval before or after our drug candidates, and over those that currently are marketed. many of our competitors, including major pharmaceutical companies such as schering-plough, glaxosmithkline, wyeth, pfizer, roche, amgen, novartis and johnson &amp; johnson possess substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we possess. in addition, many of our competitors have significantly greater experience than we have in conducting preclinical and nonclinical testing and human clinical trials of drug candidates, scaling up manufacturing operations and obtaining regulatory approvals of drugs and manufacturing facilities. accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for drugs more rapidly than we do. if we obtain regulatory approval and launch commercial sales of our drug candidates, we also will compete with respect to manufacturing efficiency and sales and marketing capabilities, areas in which we currently have limited experience. we are aware of a number of companies that are developing new treatments for hcv infection including protease inhibitor compounds like telaprevir, such as schering-plough's boceprevir, polymerase inhibitor compounds and advanced interferons. even if we are able to obtain marketing approval for telaprevir, it is possible that one or more of these therapies could be approved prior to or shortly after we obtain such approval for telaprevir, which we believe may negatively impact telaprevir sales. if physicians, patients and third-party payors do not accept our future drugs, we may be unable to generate significant revenue, if any. even if our drug candidates obtain regulatory approval, they may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and health care payors. we believe that effectively marketing telaprevir will 33 table of contents require substantial efforts, both prior to launch and after approval. physicians may elect not to recommend our drugs for a variety of reasons including: the anticipated market introduction of competitive drugs; lower demonstrated clinical safety and efficacy compared to other drugs; lack of cost-effectiveness; lack of availability of reimbursement from third-party payors; convenience and ease of administration; prevalence and severity of adverse side effects; other potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; and ineffective marketing and distribution support. if our approved drugs fail to achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to generate significant revenue. if the government and other third-party payors fail to provide coverage and adequate payment rates for our future drugs, our revenue and prospects for profitability will be harmed. in both domestic and foreign markets, our sales of any future drugs will depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. such third-party payors include government health programs such as medicare, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. these third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by demanding price discounts or rebates and limiting both the types and variety of drugs that they will cover and the amounts that they will pay for these drugs. as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our future drugs. we might need to conduct post-marketing studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of any future drugs to such payors' satisfaction. such studies might require us to commit a significant amount of management time and financial and other resources. our future drugs might not ultimately be considered cost-effective. adequate third-party reimbursement might not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on investment in product development. reimbursement rates may vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost products that are already reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other products or services, and may reflect budgetary constraints and/or imperfections in medicare or medicaid data used to calculate these rates. net prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs. in addition, legislation has been introduced in congress that, if enacted, would permit more widespread importation of drugs from foreign countries into the united states, which may include importation from countries where the drugs are sold at lower prices than in the united states. such legislation, or similar regulatory changes or relaxation of laws that restrict imports of drugs from other countries, could reduce the net price we receive for our marketed drugs. if our processes and systems are not compliant with regulatory requirements, we could be subject to delays in filing ndas or restrictions on marketing of drugs after they have been approved. we currently are developing drug candidates for regulatory approval for the first time since our inception, and are in the process of implementing regulated processes and systems required to obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our drug candidates. certain of these processes and systems for conducting clinical trials and manufacturing material must be compliant with regulatory requirements before we can apply for regulatory approval for our drug candidates. these processes and systems will 34 table of contents be subject to continual review and periodic inspection by the fda and other regulatory bodies. if we are unable to achieve compliance in a timely fashion, or if compliance issues are identified at any point in the development and approval process, we may experience delays in filing for regulatory approval for our drug candidates, or delays in obtaining regulatory approval after filing. in addition, any later discovery of previously unknown problems or safety issues with approved drugs or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in restrictions on such drugs or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of drugs from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal penalties or a refusal by the fda and/or other regulatory bodies to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we are a party to agreements that transfer responsibility for complying with specified regulatory requirements, such as filing and maintenance of marketing authorizations and safety reporting or compliance with manufacturing requirements, to our collaborators and third-party manufacturers. if our collaborators or third-party manufacturers do not fulfill these regulatory obligations, any drugs for which we or they obtain approval may be withdrawn from the market, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. if we obtain regulatory approvals, our drug candidates will be subject to ongoing regulatory review. if we fail to comply with continuing united states and applicable foreign regulations, we could lose those approvals, and our business would be seriously harmed. if we receive regulatory approval of any drug candidates that we are developing, we will be subject to continuing regulatory review, including the review of clinical results that are reported after our drug candidates become commercially available, approved drugs. drugs are more widely used by patients once approval has been obtained, therefore side effects and other problems may be observed after approval that were not seen or anticipated during pre-approval clinical trials. in addition, the manufacturers and the manufacturing facilities we engage to make any of our drug candidates will also be subject to periodic review and inspection by the fda. the subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the drug, manufacturers or manufacturing facilities may result in restrictions on the drug, manufacturers or manufacturing facilities, including withdrawal of the drug from the market or our inability to use the facilities to make our drug. if we fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval, product recalls and seizures, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions. our drug development efforts are data-driven and therefore potentially subject to abrupt changes in expected outcomes. small molecule drug discovery and development involve, initially, the identification of chemical compounds that may have promise as treatments for specific diseases. once identified as drug candidates, compounds are subjected to years of testing in a laboratory setting, in animals and in humans. our ultimate objective is to determine whether the drug candidates have physical characteristics, both intrinsically and in animal and human systems, and a toxicological profile, that are compatible with clinical and commercial success in treatment of the disease being targeted. throughout this process, experiments are conducted and data are gathered that could reinforce a decision to move to the next step in the investigation process for a particular drug candidate, could result in uncertainty over the proper course to pursue, or could result in the termination of further drug development efforts with respect to the compound being evaluated. we monitor the results of our discovery research and our nonclinical studies and clinical trials and regularly evaluate and re-evaluate our portfolio investments with the objective of balancing risk and potential return in view of new data and scientific, business and commercial insights. this process can result in relatively abrupt changes in focus and priority as new information comes to light and we gain additional insights into ongoing programs and potential new programs. 35 table of contents we depend on our collaborators to work with us to develop, manufacture and commercialize many of our drug candidates. we have granted development and commercialization rights to telaprevir to janssen (worldwide other than north america and far east) and to mitsubishi tanabe (far east). we expect to receive significant financial support under our janssen collaboration agreement, as well as meaningful technical and manufacturing contributions to the telaprevir program. the success of some of our key in-house programs, such as for telaprevir, is dependent upon the continued financial and other support that our collaborators have agreed to provide. for some drug candidates on which we are not currently focusing our development efforts, we have granted worldwide rights to a collaborator, as in our collaborations with merck and avalon. the success of our collaborations depends on the efforts and activities of our collaborators. each of our collaborators has significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that it will apply to the collaboration. our existing collaborations may not be scientifically or commercially successful, and we may fail in our attempts to establish further collaborations to develop our drug candidates on acceptable terms. the risks that we face in connection with these existing and any future collaborations include the following: our collaboration agreements are subject to termination under various circumstances, including, as in the case of our agreements with janssen and merck, termination without cause. any such termination could have an adverse material effect on our financial condition and/or delay the development and commercial sale of our drug candidates, including telaprevir. our collaborators may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts or may have insufficient resources to effectively develop our drug candidates. pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies historically have re-evaluated their development and commercialization priorities following mergers and consolidations, which have been common in recent years in these industries. the ability of some of our drug candidates to reach their potential could be limited if our collaborators decrease or fail to increase development or commercialization efforts related to those drug candidates. our collaboration agreements may have the effect of limiting the areas of research and development that we may pursue, either alone or in collaboration with third parties. our collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, drugs that are similar to or competitive with the drugs or drug candidates that are the subject of the collaboration with us. if we acquire or license technologies, resources or drug candidates, we will incur a variety of costs and may never realize benefits from the transaction. if appropriate opportunities become available, we might attempt to license or acquire technologies, resources and drugs or drug candidates, including potentially complimentary hcv therapies. the process of negotiating the license or acquisition might result in operating difficulties and expenditures and whether or not any such transaction is ever consummated, might require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. moreover, even if we complete a license or other transaction, we might never realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction. future licenses or acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, or impairment expenses related to goodwill, and impairment or amortization expenses related to other intangible assets, which could harm our financial condition. 36 table of contents if we are unable to attract and retain collaborators for the development and commercialization of our drugs and drug candidates, we may not be able to fully fund our development and commercialization activities. our collaborators have agreed to fund portions of our pharmaceutical development programs and/or to conduct the development and commercialization of specified drug candidates and, if they are approved, drugs. in exchange, we have given them technology, sales and marketing rights relating to those drugs and drug candidates. some of our corporate collaborators have rights to control the planning and execution of drug development and clinical programs including for our aurora kinase inhibitor drug candidates and avn-944 (vx-944). our collaborators may exercise their control rights in ways that may negatively affect the timing and success of those programs. our collaborations are subject to termination rights by the collaborators. if any of our collaborators were to terminate its relationship with us, or fail to meet its contractual obligations, that action could have a material adverse effect on our ability to develop, manufacture and market any drug candidates being developed under the collaboration and could adversely affect our revenues and net loss. as part of our ongoing strategy, we expect to seek additional collaborative arrangements, which may not be available to us on favorable terms, or at all, to develop and commercialize our drug candidates in the future. we plan to seek a collaborator for our jak3 inhibitors, including vx-509. no assurance can be given that these efforts will be successful. even if we are able to establish acceptable collaborative arrangements in the future, these collaborations may not be successful. our investment in the clinical development and manufacture of a commercial supply of telaprevir may not result in any benefit to us if telaprevir is not approved for commercial sale. we are investing significant resources in the clinical development of telaprevir. telaprevir is the first drug candidate for which we expect to perform all activities related to late-stage development, drug supply, registration and commercialization in a major market. we are planning for and investing significant resources now in preparation for application for marketing approval, commercial supply and sales and marketing. we also are incurring significant costs to obtain telaprevir commercial supply, including $17.4 million in 2008 and $75.4 million in 2007. our engagement in these resource-intensive activities puts significant investment at risk if we do not obtain regulatory approval and successfully commercialize telaprevir in north america. there is no assurance that our development of telaprevir will lead successfully to regulatory approval, or that obtaining regulatory approval will lead to commercial success. if telaprevir is not approved for commercial sale or if its development is delayed for any reason, our full investment in telaprevir may be at risk, we may face significant costs to dispose of unusable inventory, and our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. we depend on third-party manufacturers, including sole source suppliers, to manufacture clinical trial materials for clinical trials and expect to continue to rely on them to meet our commercial supply needs for any drug candidate that is approved for sale. we may not be able to establish or maintain these relationships and could experience supply disruptions outside of our control. we currently rely on a worldwide network of third-party manufacturers to manufacture and distribute our drug candidates for clinical trials, and we expect that we will continue to do so to meet our commercial supply needs for these drugs, including telaprevir, if they are approved for sale. as a result of our reliance on these third-party manufacturers and suppliers, including sole source suppliers of certain components of our drug candidates and drugs, we may be subject to significant supply disruptions outside of our control. our supply chain for sourcing raw materials and manufacturing drug product ready for distribution is a multi-step international endeavor in which we rely on third-party contract manufacturers in asia, for the supply of raw materials, and in the european union and the united states for the application of specific manufacturing processes for the conversion of raw 37 table of contents materials into drug substance and drug substance into final dosage form. establishing and managing this global supply chain requires significant financial commitments, experienced personnel and the creation or expansion of numerous third-party contractual relationships. there can be no assurance that we will be able to establish and maintain commercial supply chains on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, in order to support a timely launch of telaprevir or any of our other drug candidates we currently require for our own use, and are responsible to janssen and mitsubishi tanabe for, a supply of telaprevir for clinical trials in north america and the european union, respectively. we will require a supply of telaprevir for sale in north america if we are successful in obtaining marketing approval. we are in the process of transferring technical information regarding the manufacture of telaprevir to janssen so that janssen will be able to manufacture telaprevir, if approved, for sale in janssen's territories and as a secondary supply source of drug substance for us. while we believe there are multiple third parties capable of providing most of the materials and services we need in order to manufacture and distribute telaprevir, and supply of materials which cannot be second-sourced can be managed with inventory planning, there is a risk that we may underestimate or overestimate demand, and the manufacturing capacity, for which we planned and contracted with third-party manufacturers, may not be sufficient or may result in more inventory than is necessary. in addition, because of the significant lead times involved in our supply chain for telaprevir, we may have less flexibility to adjust our supply in response to changes in demand than if we had shorter lead times. we currently require a supply of vx-770 for clinical trials in north america and europe, and will require a supply of vx-770 for sale in north america and europe, if we are successful in obtaining marketing approval. we are manufacturing vx-770 through our third-party manufacturer network to meet our clinical supply needs and are focused on completing the technical development work and commercial formulation of vx-770. over the next several years, we will need to expand our relationships with the third-party manufacturers that comprise our supply chain for telaprevir or establish new relationships with third-party manufacturers in order to establish a supply chain for vx-770 and support the potential commercial launch and subsequent commercial supply of vx-770. even if we successfully establish arrangements with third-party manufacturers, supply disruptions may result from a number of factors including shortages in product raw materials, labor or technical difficulties, regulatory inspections or restrictions, shipping or customs delays or any other performance failure by any third-party manufacturer on which we rely. any supply disruptions could impact the timing of our clinical trials and the commercial launch of any approved pharmaceutical drugs. furthermore, we may be required to modify our production methods to permit us to economically manufacture our drugs for commercial launch and sale. these modifications may require us to re-evaluate our resources and the resources of our third-party manufacturers, which could result in abrupt changes in our production methods and supplies. upon approval of a pharmaceutical drug for sale, if any, we similarly may be at risk of supply chain disruption for our commercial drug supply. in the course of its services, a contract manufacturer may develop process technology related to the manufacture of our drug candidates that the manufacturer owns, either independently or jointly with us. this would increase our reliance on that manufacturer or require us to obtain a license from that manufacturer in order to have our products manufactured by other suppliers utilizing the same process. we rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such trials. we do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for our drug candidates, and we rely on third parties such as contract research organizations, to help manage our clinical trial process and on medical institutions and clinical investigators to enroll qualified patients and conduct our clinical trials. our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. accordingly, these third-party contractors may not complete activities on schedule, 38 table of contents or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our trial design. if these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be required to replace them. although we believe that there are a number of other third-party contractors we could engage to continue these activities, it may result in a delay of the affected trial. if clinical trials are not conducted in accordance with our contractual expectations or regulatory requirements, action by regulatory authorities might significantly and adversely affect the conduct or progess of these trials. accordingly, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize our drug candidates could be delayed. risks associated with our international business relationships could materially adversely affect our business. we have manufacturing, collaborative and clinical trial relationships, and we and our collaborators are seeking approval for our drug candidates, outside the united states. in addition, we expect that if telaprevir is approved for commercial sale, a significant portion of our commercial supply chain, including sourcing of raw materials and manufacturing, will be located in asia and the european union. consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to risks related to operating in foreign countries. risks associated with conducting operations in foreign countries include: differing regulatory requirements for drug approvals in foreign countries; unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements; economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees living or traveling abroad; foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes; foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses or reduced revenues, and other obligations incident to doing business or operating a subsidiary in another country; workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the united states; production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism. these and other risks associated with our international operations could materially adversely affect our business. if we are unable to realize the expected benefits of our drug discovery capabilities and other technologies, we may not be able to compete in the marketplace. the pharmaceutical research field is characterized by rapid technological progress and intense competition. as a result, we may not realize the expected benefits from our integrated drug discovery capabilities and technologies. for example, a large pharmaceutical company, with significantly more resources than we have, could pursue a systematic approach to the discovery of drugs based on gene families, using proprietary drug targets, compound libraries, novel chemical approaches, structural protein analysis and information technologies. such a company might identify broadly applicable compound classes faster and more effectively than we do. further, we believe that interest in the application of structure-based drug design, parallel drug design and related approaches has accelerated as the strategies have become more widely understood. businesses, academic institutions, governmental 39 table of contents agencies and other public and private research organizations are conducting research to develop technologies that may compete with those we use. it is possible that our competitors could acquire or develop technologies that would render our technology obsolete or noncompetitive. for example, a competitor could develop information technologies that accelerate the atomic-level analysis of potential compounds that bind to the active site of a drug target, and predict the absorption, toxicity, and relative ease-of-synthesis of candidate compounds. if we were unable to access the same technologies at an acceptable price, or at all, our business could be adversely affected. if we fail to expand our human resources and manage our growth effectively, our business may suffer. we expect that if our clinical drug candidates continue to progress in development, we continue to build our commercial organization and our drug discovery efforts continue to generate drug candidates, we will require significant additional investment in personnel, management systems and resources. for example, the number of our full-time employees increased by 16% in 2008, and we expect to experience additional growth in 2009. because our drug discovery and development activities are highly technical in nature, we require the services of highly qualified and trained scientists who have the skills necessary to conduct these activities. in addition, as we attempt to grow our capabilities with respect to clinical development, regulatory affairs, quality control and sales and marketing, we need to attract and retain employees with experience in these fields. we face intense competition for our personnel from our competitors, our collaborators and other companies throughout our industry. moreover, the growth of local biotechnology companies and the expansion of major pharmaceutical companies into the boston area have increased competition for the available pool of skilled employees, especially in technical fields, and the high cost of living in the boston and san diego areas makes it difficult to attract employees from other parts of the country to these areas. our ability to commercialize our drug candidates, achieve our research and development objectives, and satisfy our commitments under our collaboration agreements depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands and expand our internal organization to accommodate additional anticipated growth. if we are unable to manage to hire qualified personnel or manage our growth effectively, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. the loss of the services of key employees or the failure to effectively integrate key employees could negatively impact our business and future growth. our future success will depend in large part on our ability to retain the services of our key scientific and management personnel and to integrate new scientific and management personnel into our business. as we expand our capabilities in anticipation of the possible launch of commercial products, a loss of key personnel or a failure to properly integrate new personnel could be disruptive. we have entered into employment agreements with some individuals and provide compensation-related benefits to all of our key employees that vest over time and therefore induce them to remain with us. however, the employment agreements can be terminated by the employee on relatively short notice. the value to employees of stock-related benefits that vest over time such as options and restricted stock will be significantly affected by movements in our stock price that we cannot control, and may at any point in time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. a failure to retain, as well as hire, train and effectively integrate into our organization a sufficient number of qualified scientists, professionals, sales personnel and senior management would negatively affect our business and our ability to grow our business. if our patents do not protect our drugs, or our drugs infringe third-party patents, we could be subject to litigation and substantial liabilities. we have numerous patent applications pending in the united states, as well as foreign counterparts in other countries. our success will depend, in significant part, on our ability to obtain 40 table of contents and maintain united states and foreign patent protection for our drugs, their uses and our processes, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. we do not know whether any patents will issue from any of our patent applications or, even if patents issue or have issued, that the issued claims will provide us with any significant protection against competitive products or otherwise be valuable commercially. legal standards relating to the validity of patents and the proper scope of their claims in the pharmaceutical field are still evolving, and there is no consistent law or policy regarding the valid breadth of claims in biopharmaceutical patents or the effect of prior art on them. if we are not able to obtain adequate patent protection, our ability to prevent competitors from making, using and selling similar drugs will be limited. furthermore, our activities may infringe the claims of patents held by third parties. defense and prosecution of infringement or other intellectual property claims, as well as participation in other inter-party proceedings, can be expensive and time-consuming, regardless of whether or not the outcome is favorable to us. if the outcome of any such litigation or proceeding were adverse, we could be subject to significant liabilities to third parties, could be required to obtain licenses from third parties or could be required to cease sales of affected drugs, any of which outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business. our business has a substantial risk of product liability claims. if we are unable to obtain appropriate levels of insurance, a product liability claim could adversely affect our business. our business exposes us to significant potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, manufacturing and sales and marketing of human therapeutic products. we currently have clinical trial insurance and will seek to obtain product liability insurance prior to the sales and marketing of any of our drug candidates. however, our insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. furthermore, clinical trial and product liability insurance is becoming increasingly expensive. as a result, we may be unable to maintain current amounts of insurance coverage or obtain additional or sufficient insurance at a reasonable cost to protect against losses that could have a material adverse effect on us. if a claim is brought against us, we might be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as uncovered damages awards resulting from a claim brought successfully against us. furthermore, whether or not we are ultimately successful in defending any such claims, we might be required to direct significant financial and managerial resources to such defense, and adverse publicity is likely to result. if we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected. our research and development efforts involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. if an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. we are also subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. although we maintain workers' compensation insurance to cover us for costs we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. due to the small amount of hazardous materials that we generate, we have determined that the cost to secure insurance coverage for environmental liability and toxic tort claims far exceeds the benefits. accordingly, we do not maintain any insurance to cover pollution conditions or other extraordinary or unanticipated events relating to our use and disposal of hazardous materials. additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. we may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations. 41 table of contents we have adopted anti-takeover provisions and are subject to massachusetts corporate laws that may frustrate any attempt to remove or replace our current management. our corporate charter and by-law provisions, massachusetts state laws, and our stockholder rights plan may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change of control of vertex that might be beneficial to us or our security holders. our charter provides for staggered terms for the members of the board of directors. our by-laws grant the directors a right to adjourn annual meetings of stockholders, and certain provisions of our by-laws may be amended only with an 80% stockholder vote. pursuant to our stockholder rights plan, each share of common stock has an associated preferred share purchase right. the rights will not trade separately from the common stock until, and are exercisable only upon, the acquisition or the potential acquisition through tender offer by a person or group of 15% or more of the outstanding common stock. we may issue shares of any class or series of preferred stock in the future without stockholder approval and upon such terms as our board of directors may determine. the rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any class or series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. massachusetts state law prohibits us from engaging in specified business combinations, unless the combination is approved or consummated in a prescribed manner, and prohibits voting by any stockholder who acquires 20% or more of our voting stock without stockholder approval. as a result, stockholders or other parties may find it more difficult to remove or replace our current management. our stock price may fluctuate based on factors beyond our control. market prices for securities of companies such as vertex are highly volatile. from january 1, 2007 to december 31, 2008, our common stock traded between $13.84 and $41.42 per share. the market for our stock, like that of other companies in the biotechnology field, has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to our operating performance. the future market price of our securities could be significantly and adversely affected by factors such as: announcements of results of clinical trials or nonclinical studies relating to our drug candidates or those of our competitors; announcements of financial results and other operating performance measures, or capital structuring or financing activities; technological innovations or the introduction of new drugs by our competitors; government regulatory action; public concern as to the safety of drugs developed by others; developments in patent or other intellectual property rights or announcements relating to these matters; developments in domestic and international governmental policy or regulation, for example relating to intellectual property rights; developments relating specifically to other companies and market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks or stocks in general; and general worldwide or national economic, political and capital market conditions. our estimates of our liability under our kendall square lease may be inaccurate. we leased a 290,000 square foot facility in kendall square, cambridge, massachusetts in january 2003 for a 15-year term. we currently are not occupying the entire facility. we have sublease arrangements in place for the remaining rentable square footage of the facility. in determining our 42 table of contents obligations under the lease for the part of the facility that we are not occupying, we have made certain assumptions relating to the time necessary to sublease the space after the expiration of the initial subleases, projected future sublease rental rates and the anticipated durations of future subleases. our estimates have changed in the past, and may change in the future, resulting in additional adjustments to the estimate of liability, and the effect of any such adjustments could be material. special note regarding forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k and, in particular, the description of our business set forth in item 1, the risk factors set forth in this item 1a and our management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations set forth in item 7 contain or incorporate a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding: our expectations regarding clinical trials, development timelines and regulatory authority filings for telaprevir, vx-770 and other drug candidates under development by us and our collaborators; our expectations regarding the number of patients that will be evaluated, the trial design that will be utilized, the anticipated date by which enrollment will be completed and the expected date by which svr data, interim data and/or final data will be available and/or publicly announced for our advance, realize and illuminate trials, the other ongoing or planned clinical trials of telaprevir, the registration program for vx-770, the phase 1 clinical trials and phase 2a clinical trials of vx-809, the phase 1 clinical trial of vx-813, and the clinical trials being conducted by our collaborators of drug candidates for the treatment of cancer; expectations regarding trends with respect to our costs and expenses; the data that will be generated by ongoing and planned clinical trials, and the ability to use that data for the design and initiation of further clinical trials and to support regulatory filings, including potentially applications for marketing approval for telaprevir and vx-770; our ability to potentially register telaprevir for marketing across a range of genotypes and patient populations; our intention to work with regulatory authorities in north america and europe to design a registration program for vx-770, which, if approved, could begin the first half of 2009; our expectations regarding the future market demand and medical need for telaprevir and our other drug candidates; our beliefs regarding the support provided by clinical trials and preclinical and nonclinical studies of our drug candidates for further investigation, clinical trials or potential use as a treatment of those drug candidates; our ability to successfully market telaprevir and vx-770 if we are able to obtain regulatory approval; the focus of our drug development efforts and our financial and management resources and our plan to invest significant resources in telaprevir and our other drug candidates; the establishment, development and maintenance of collaborative relationships; potential business development activities, including with respect to our jak3 program and drug candidates that could be complimentary to our hcv protease inhibitors; our ability to use our research programs to identify and develop new drug candidates to address serious diseases and significant unmet medical needs; 43 table of contents our estimates regarding obligations associated with a lease of a facility in kendall square, cambridge, massachusetts; and our liquidity and our expectations regarding our needs for and ability to raise additional capital. any or all of our forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k may turn out to be wrong. they can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. many factors mentioned in this annual report on form 10-k will be important in determining future results. consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. actual future results may vary materially from expected results. we also provide a cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties under "risk factors" above in this item 1a. these are factors and uncertainties that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results. other factors and uncertainties besides those listed there could also adversely affect us. without limiting the foregoing, the words "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "expects" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. there are a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control, including the factors and uncertainties set forth under "risk factors" above in this item 1a. in addition, the forward-looking statements contained herein represent our estimate only as of the date of this filing and should not be relied upon as representing our estimate as of any subsequent date. while we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 67 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk as part of our investment portfolio, we own financial instruments that are sensitive to market risks. the investment portfolio is used to preserve our capital until it is required to fund operations, including our research and development activities. none of these market risk-sensitive instruments are held for trading purposes. we do not have derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. interest rate risk we invest our cash in a variety of financial instruments, principally securities issued by the united states government and its agencies, investment grade corporate bonds and notes and money market instruments. these investments are denominated in united states dollars. all of our interest-bearing securities are subject to interest rate risk, and could decline in value if interest rates fluctuate. substantially all of our investment portfolio consists of marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to help ensure portfolio liquidity, and we have implemented guidelines limiting the term-to-maturity of our investment instruments. due to the conservative nature of these instruments, we do not believe that we have a material exposure to interest rate risk.risk factors 31 risk factors risk factors investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk, and you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k. if any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer, possibly materially. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. risks related to our business we expect to incur future losses, and we may never become profitable. we have incurred significant operating losses each year since our inception, including net losses of $642.2 million, $459.9 million and $391.3 million during the years ended december 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and expect to incur significant operating losses in 2010. we expect to continue to incur operating losses at least until we are able to obtain approval for and successfully commercialize telaprevir, because we are continuing to invest significant amounts in the late-stage development of telaprevir and vx-770, and in clinical development of our earlier-stage drug candidates and research activities. as a result, we believe that it is likely that our expenses will exceed our revenues at least until we begin receiving substantial product revenues. there can be no assurance that any of our drug candidates will be approved or, if approved, will be commercially successful. our net losses have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on, among other things, our stockholders' equity, total assets and working capital. we expect that losses will fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year, and that such fluctuations may be substantial. we cannot provide assurance that we will ever become profitable. we depend heavily on the success of our lead drug candidate, telaprevir, which is still being evaluated in a registration program. if we are unable to commercialize telaprevir, or experience delays in doing so, our business will be materially harmed. we are investing a substantial portion of our personnel and financial resources in the development of telaprevir, and we believe that a significant portion of the value attributed to our company by investors relates to the commercial potential of telaprevir. we expect that we will be making significant additional investments in telaprevir in order to be prepared for the potential commercial launch of telaprevir in the united states in 2011, including the establishment of a sales force and marketing capabilities and additional investment in commercial inventory. the clinical development and commercial success of telaprevir will depend on many factors, including the following: successful completion of clinical trials with favorable outcomes relative to current standards of care and future competitive therapies; receipt and timing of marketing approvals for telaprevir from the fda and comparable foreign regulatory authorities; receipt and timing of marketing approvals from the fda and comparable foreign regulatory authorities for products being developed for the treatment of hcv infection by our competitors, including merck's boceprevir; additional discussions with the fda and similar foreign authorities regarding the quality of our manufacturing process for telaprevir and our clinical trial results, including the results we expect to obtain in the second and third quarters of 2010 from our phase 3 clinical trials of telaprevir; 31 table of contents interactions with regulatory authorities regarding the contents of any nda submission, including the data from our clinical trials and nonclinical studies, any plan setting forth risk evaluation and mitigation strategies and our manufacturing processes; maintaining commercial manufacturing arrangements for telaprevir with third-party manufacturers that are subject to extensive regulation by the fda, and successfully monitoring those manufacturing operations to ensure they meet our standards and those of regulatory authorities, including the fda, that extensively monitor pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities; our ability to establish telaprevir, if approved, as a significant component of any oral combination therapies that may be approved as a treatment for hcv infection; the efficacy and other characteristics, including the side-effect profile, of telaprevir relative to existing and future treatments for hcv infection; the effect of new health care legislation currently being considered in the united states; our ability to increase awareness of the benefits of early treatment for hcv infection if telaprevir is approved, and to increase the rates of diagnosis of currently undiagnosed patients with hcv infection; and the acceptance of telaprevir by patients, the medical community and with third-party payors. if the data from our ongoing clinical trials or nonclinical studies regarding the safety or efficacy of telaprevir are not favorable, we may be forced to delay or terminate the clinical development of telaprevir, which would materially harm our business. further, even if we gain marketing approvals from the fda and comparable foreign regulatory authorities in a timely manner, we cannot be sure that telaprevir will be commercially successful in the pharmaceutical market. if the results of clinical trials of telaprevir, the anticipated or actual timing of marketing approvals for telaprevir, or the market acceptance of telaprevir, if approved, including treatment reimbursement levels agreed to by third-party payors, do not meet the expectations of investors or public market analysts, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. all of our drug candidates remain subject to clinical testing and regulatory approval. if we are unable to successfully develop and test our drug candidates, we will not be successful. the success of our business depends primarily upon our ability, and the ability of our collaborators, if any, to develop and commercialize our drug candidates, including telaprevir and vx-770, successfully. due to the development efforts of our competitors, in order to be successful in a therapeutic area it is often necessary to develop follow-on compounds and/or new combination therapies. our drug candidates are in various stages of development and must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before they can be approved by the fda or comparable foreign regulatory authorities for sale. to satisfy these standards, we and/or our collaborators must allocate resources among our various development programs and must engage in expensive and lengthy testing of our drug candidates. these discovery and development efforts for a new pharmaceutical product, including follow-on compounds, are resource-intensive and may take 10 to 15 years or longer for each drug candidate. despite our efforts, our drug candidates may not: offer therapeutic or other improvement over existing competitive drugs; be proven safe and effective in clinical trials; meet applicable regulatory standards; be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs; or if approved for commercial sale, be successfully marketed as pharmaceutical products. 32 table of contents in addition to our ongoing registration programs for telaprevir and vx-770, we have ongoing and planned phase 2a clinical trials for a number of our earlier-stage drug candidates, including a planned clinical trial of telaprevir in combination with vx-222 in patients infected with hcv, a planned clinical trial of vx-809 in combination with vx-770 in patients with the most common cf mutation, a clinical trial of vx-509 in patients with moderate-to-severe ra and a clinical trial of vx-765 in patients with epilepsy. while we are heavily dependent on the success of our registration programs, the strength of our company's pipeline of drug candidates and potential drug candidates will depend in large part upon the outcomes of these ongoing and planned phase 2a clinical trials. findings, including toxicology findings, in nonclinical studies conducted concurrently with clinical trials as well as results of our clinical trials could lead to abrupt changes in our development activities, including the possible cessation of development activities associated with a particular drug candidate or program, including telaprevir or vx-770. furthermore, results from our clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the fda or other regulatory authorities for approval of a drug candidate. we and many other companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in earlier-stage clinical trials. accordingly, the results from the completed preclinical studies and clinical trials, positive results in preclinical studies and early clinical trials may not be replicated in later clinical trials, and ongoing clinical trials for our drug candidates may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later-stage trials or of the likelihood of approval of a drug candidate for commercial sale. in addition, from time to time we report interim data from our clinical trials, including with respect to our hcv program data regarding patients' hcv rna levels during treatment, at the end-of-treatment or 12 weeks after completion of treatment. interim data are subject to change, and there can be no assurances that interim data will be confirmed upon the analysis of final data. in addition, interim data with respect to patients' hcv rna levels may not be predictive of the final svr rates that will be achieved in the clinical trial. if we are unable to obtain united states and/or foreign regulatory approval, we will be unable to commercialize our drug candidates. our drug candidates are subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to their development, clinical evaluation, manufacturing and commercialization. rigorous nonclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory approval process are required in the united states and in most other countries prior to the commercial sale of drug candidates. satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time-consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. it is possible that none of the drug candidates we are developing independently, or in collaboration with others, will be approved for marketing. we have limited experience in conducting and managing the late-stage clinical trials and nda process necessary to obtain regulatory approvals, including approval by the fda. the time required to complete clinical trials and to satisfy the fda and other countries' regulatory review processes is uncertain and typically takes many years. our analysis of data obtained from nonclinical and clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. we may also encounter unanticipated delays or increased costs due to government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in fda policy during the period of drug development, clinical trials and fda regulatory review. any delay in obtaining or failure to obtain required approvals could materially adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize any drug candidate. furthermore, any regulatory approval to market a drug may be subject to limitations that we do not currently expect on the indicated uses for which we may market the drug. any such limitations could limit the size of the market for the drug. 33 table of contents we are also subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement. the foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with the fda approval process described above, as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of foreign requirements. approval by the fda does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities outside the united states. foreign jurisdictions may have different approval procedures than those required by the fda and may impose additional testing requirements for our drug candidates. if clinical trials for our drug candidates are prolonged or delayed, we will be unable to commercialize our drug candidates as currently planned, which would require us to incur additional costs, would delay our receipt of any product revenue and could harm our competitive position. we cannot predict whether or not we will encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause us or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend clinical trials, or delay the analysis of data from our completed or ongoing clinical trials. any of the following could delay the clinical development of our drug candidates: ongoing discussions with the fda or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials and the number of clinical trials we must conduct; delays in enrolling volunteers or patients into clinical trials, including as a result of low numbers of patients that meet the eligibility criteria for the trial; a lower than anticipated retention rate of volunteers or patients in clinical trials; the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive results, unforeseen complications in testing or clinical investigator error; inadequate supply or deficient quality of drug candidate materials or other materials necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials; unfavorable fda or foreign regulatory authority inspection and review of a manufacturing facility for a drug candidate or its relevant manufacturing records or a clinical trial site or records of any clinical or preclinical investigation; unfavorable results from clinical trials of our drug candidates; serious and unexpected drug-related side-effects experienced by participants in our clinical trials; favorable results in testing of our competitors' drug candidates, or fda or foreign regulatory authority approval of our competitors' products; or action by the fda or a foreign regulatory authority to place a clinical hold on a trial. our ability to enroll patients in our clinical trials in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis will be subject to a number of factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the number of other clinical trials ongoing and competing for patients in the same indication and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. in addition, subjects may drop out of our clinical trials or may be lost to follow-up medical evaluation after treatment ends, and this could possibly impair the validity or statistical significance of the trials. delays in patient enrollment or unforeseen drop-out rates may result in increased costs and longer development times. we are currently investing large amounts of money in research and development, the building of our commercial organization and the building of commercial supplies of telaprevir. our revenues constitute only a small fraction of our total investment, which is being funded from various sources, including the sale of shares and convertible debt and payments from collaborators. any significant delay in our planned timetable for launch of telaprevir, or disappointing sales post-launch would require us to either 34 table of contents seek additional financing, which might not be available, or attempt to reduce costs through terminating existing programs, or the sale of assets, either of which might be difficult or insufficient. we, our collaborators, the fda or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a drug candidate at any time if we or they believe the subjects or patients participating in such clinical trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. any such suspension could materially adversely affect the development of a particular drug candidate and our business. in addition, it is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted, or whether fda or other applicable regulatory authority regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. if we experience any such problems, we may not have the financial resources to continue development of the drug candidate that is affected or the development of any of our other drug candidates. any delay in the approval of any of our drug candidates, including telaprevir, could also have a material adverse impact on our ability to effectively commercialize the drug candidate after approval if one or more of our competitors are able to bring competing therapies to market before or in closer proximity to the launch date for our drug candidates. the results from our and our collaborators' clinical development activities and the clinical development activities of our competitors are released periodically, and have often resulted in significant volatility in the price of our common stock. any new information regarding our drug candidates or potentially competitive drugs or drug candidates, and in particular any new information regarding telaprevir and potentially competitive hcv drug candidates, can substantially affect investors' perceptions regarding our future prospects. we, our collaborators and our competitors periodically provide updates regarding drug development programs, typically through press releases, conference calls and presentations at medical conferences. these periodic updates often include interim or final results from clinical trials conducted by us, our collaborators or our competitors and/or information about our or our competitors' expectations regarding future clinical development of our drug candidates or potentially competitive drugs or drug candidates. the timing of the release of information by us regarding our drug development programs is often beyond our control and is influenced by when we receive data from our clinical trials and by the general preference among pharmaceutical companies to disclose clinical data during medical conferences. in addition, because clinical trials of drug candidates for the treatment of hcv infection often occur over more than one year, the information that we, our collaborators and our competitors disclose may be based on interim rather than final data that may involve interpretation difficulties and may in any event not accurately reflect final results. if our competitors bring superior drugs to market or bring their drugs to market before we do, we may be unable to find a market for our drug candidates. our drug candidates in development may not be able to compete effectively with drugs that are currently on the market or new drugs that may be developed by others. there are many other companies developing drugs for the same indications that we are pursuing in development, in particular for the treatment of hcv infection. in order to compete successfully in these areas, we must demonstrate improved safety, efficacy and ease of manufacturing and gain market acceptance over competing drugs, such as merck's boceprevir, that may receive regulatory approval before or after our drug candidates, and over those that currently are marketed. many of our competitors, including major pharmaceutical companies such as merck, bristol-myers squibb, glaxosmithkline, pfizer, roche, amgen, novartis and johnson &amp; johnson, possess substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we possess. in addition, many of our competitors have significantly greater experience than we have in conducting nonclinical testing and human clinical trials of drug candidates, scaling up manufacturing operations and obtaining regulatory approvals of drugs and manufacturing facilities. accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for drugs more rapidly than 35 table of contents we do. no assurances can be given that telaprevir will be approved for marketing prior to boceprevir. if we obtain regulatory approval and launch commercial sales of our drug candidates, we also will compete with respect to manufacturing efficiency and sales and marketing capabilities, areas in which we currently have limited experience. we are aware of a number of companies that are developing new treatments for hcv infections including protease inhibitor compounds like telaprevir and boceprevir, polymerase inhibitor compounds, ns5a inhibitor compounds and advanced interferons. even if we are able to obtain marketing approval for telaprevir, it is possible that one or more of these competing therapies could be approved prior to or shortly after we obtain such approval for telaprevir, or may be approved later but with an equal or better safety and efficacy profile, which we believe may negatively impact telaprevir sales. if we are unable to develop effective independent sales and marketing capabilities or establish third-party relationships for the commercialization of our drug candidates, we will not be able to successfully commercialize our drug candidates, particularly telaprevir, even if we are able to obtain regulatory approval. we currently have limited experience as a company in sales and marketing or with respect to pricing and obtaining adequate third-party reimbursement for drugs. we are developing marketing capabilities and will need to develop an independent sales force in order to market telaprevir in north america and have entered into collaborations in order to market telaprevir in the rest of the world if it is approved. we will need to expand these capabilities and/or enter into additional arrangements with third parties to sell and market our other drug candidates, if they are approved for sale by regulatory authorities. in order to market telaprevir in north america if it is approved, we are building a marketing organization and will need to build a specialized sales force, which requires substantial efforts and significant management and financial resources. in addition, if vx-770 is approved, we would also need to establish a sales force in north america and europe for vx-770. while we intend to stage our commitments to the extent possible in consideration of the development timelines, in order to support an effective launch of telaprevir, we will need to make significant financial commitments to our marketing organization prior to receiving regulatory approval. we will need to devote significant effort, in particular, to recruiting individuals with experience in the sales and marketing of pharmaceutical products. competition for personnel with these skills is very high and may be particularly difficult for us since telaprevir is still an investigational drug candidate and we will be competing with companies that are currently marketing successful drugs. as a result, difficulties in successfully developing our own marketing capabilities or independent sales force for telaprevir in north america may adversely affect an effective launch of telaprevir if it is approved for sale. we have granted commercialization rights to other pharmaceutical companies with respect to certain of our drug candidates, including telaprevir, in specific geographic locations. to the extent that our collaborators have commercial rights to our drugs, any revenues we receive from sales of any approved drugs in those locations will depend primarily on the sales and marketing efforts of others, which we do not control and may not be able to effectively influence. we are investing significant resources in our development program for vx-770, based primarily on data from a relatively small clinical trial in which patients received vx-770 over a short duration. if we are unable to show the safety and efficacy of vx-770, or experience delays in doing so, our business could be materially harmed. we are increasing the resources that we are investing in the development of vx-770 and began a registration program for vx-770 in the first half of 2009 focused on cf patients with the g551d mutation. we initiated this registration program based primarily on data from a phase 2a clinical trial of vx-770 in 39 patients with cf, in which patients received vx-770 over 14-day and 28-day periods. 36 table of contents this is a relatively small database from which to project the final outcomes of a drug development program. in order to receive approval for vx-770, we will need to show that vx-770 is safe and effective in a larger number of patients than were involved in the phase 2a clinical trial, over significantly longer dosing periods. in addition, our registration program for vx-770 includes pediatric patient populations in which vx-770 has not previously been studied. since a substantial portion of the cf population is under age 18, vx-770's potential commercial success will be dependent not only on marketing approval for adult patients, but also on approval for pediatric patients. if we are unable to show the safety and efficacy of vx-770 in the relevant patient populations, or experience delays in doing so, our business could be materially harmed. if physicians, patients and third-party payors do not accept our future drugs, we may be unable to generate significant revenues, if any. even if we obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates, our approved drugs may not gain market acceptance among physicians and patients. we believe that effectively marketing telaprevir, if it is approved, and our other drug candidates, if any of them are approved, will require substantial efforts, both prior to launch and after approval. physicians may elect not to prescribe our drugs, and patients may elect not to request or take them, for a variety of reasons including: lower demonstrated clinical safety and efficacy compared to other drugs; prevalence and severity of adverse side-effects; lack of cost-effectiveness; lack of reimbursement availability from third-party payors; a decision to wait for the approval of other therapies that have significant perceived advantages over our drug candidates; convenience and ease of administration; other potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; and ineffective marketing and distribution support. if our approved drugs fail to achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to generate significant revenues. government and other third-party payors seek to contain costs of health care through legislative and other means and if they fail to provide coverage and adequate payment rates for our future drugs, our revenues and prospects for profitability will be harmed. in both domestic and foreign markets, our sales of any future drugs will depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. third-party payors include government health programs such as medicare and medicaid, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. governments and other third-party payors generally seek to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means. for example, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of therapeutic and other pharmaceutical products is subject to governmental control. in the united states, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental control. additional and broad health care proposals currently are being considered by the united states congress. while we cannot predict whether any legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, the adoption of such proposals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and potential profitability. in addition, these third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by demanding price discounts or rebates and limiting both the types and variety of drugs that they will 37 table of contents cover and the amounts that they will pay for these drugs. as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our future drugs. we might need to conduct post-marketing studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of any future drugs to such payors' satisfaction. such studies might require us to commit a significant amount of management time and financial and other resources. our future drugs might not ultimately be considered cost-effective. adequate third-party reimbursement might not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. reimbursement rates may vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost products that are already reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other products or services, and may reflect budgetary constraints and/or imperfections in medicare or medicaid data used to calculate these rates. net prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs. such legislation, or similar regulatory changes or relaxation of laws that restrict imports of drugs from other countries, could reduce the net price we receive for our marketed drugs. if our processes and systems are not compliant with regulatory requirements, we could be subject to delays in submitting ndas or restrictions on marketing of drugs after they have been approved. we currently are developing drug candidates for regulatory approval for the first time since our inception, and are in the process of implementing regulated processes and systems required to obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our drug candidates. certain of these processes and systems for conducting clinical trials and manufacturing material must be compliant with regulatory requirements before we can apply for regulatory approval for our drug candidates. these processes and systems will be subject to continual review and periodic inspection by the fda and other regulatory bodies. if we are unable to achieve compliance in a timely fashion, or if compliance issues are identified at any point in the development and approval process, we may experience delays in filing for regulatory approval for our drug candidates, or delays in obtaining regulatory approval after filing. in addition, any later discovery of previously unknown problems or safety issues with approved drugs or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in restrictions on such drugs or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of drugs from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal penalties or a refusal by the fda and/or other regulatory bodies to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we are a party to agreements that transfer responsibility for complying with specified regulatory requirements, such as filing and maintenance of marketing authorizations and safety reporting or compliance with manufacturing requirements, to our collaborators and third-party manufacturers. if our collaborators or third-party manufacturers do not fulfill these regulatory obligations, any drugs for which we or they obtain approval may be subject to later restrictions on manufacturing or sale, or may even risk withdrawal, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we depend on our collaborators to work with us to develop, manufacture and commercialize many of our drug candidates. we have granted development and commercialization rights for telaprevir to janssen (worldwide other than north america and far east) and to mitsubishi tanabe (far east). we expect to receive significant financial support under our janssen collaboration agreement, as well as meaningful technical and manufacturing contributions to the telaprevir program. the success of some of our key programs, such as for telaprevir, is dependent upon the continued financial and other support that our collaborators have agreed to provide. each of our collaborators has significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that it will apply to the collaboration. 38 table of contents the risks that we face in connection with these existing and any future collaborations include the following: our collaboration agreements are subject to termination under various circumstances, including, as in the case of our agreement with janssen, termination without cause. any such termination by janssen could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and/or delay the development and commercial sale of telaprevir. our collaborators may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts or may have insufficient resources to effectively develop our drug candidates. pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies historically have re-evaluated their development and commercialization priorities following mergers and consolidations, which have been common in recent years in these industries. the ability of some of our drug candidates to reach their potential could be limited if our collaborators decrease or fail to increase development or commercialization efforts related to those drug candidates. our collaboration agreements may have the effect of limiting the areas of research and development that we may pursue, either alone or in collaboration with third parties. our collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, drugs that are similar to or competitive with the drugs or drug candidates that are the subject of their collaborations with us. our investment in the clinical development and manufacture of a commercial supply of telaprevir may not result in any benefit to us if telaprevir is not approved for commercial sale. we are investing significant resources in the clinical development of telaprevir. telaprevir is the first drug candidate for which we expect to perform all activities related to late-stage development, drug supply, registration and commercialization in a major market. we are planning for and investing significant resources now in preparation for submitting an application for marketing approval, continuing to build our commercial supply inventories of drug product, and completing our scale-up of sales and marketing capacity. our costs to obtain a commercial supply of telaprevir have included approximately $20 million, $17 million and $75 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and we expect these costs to increase as we near the potential launch of telaprevir. our engagement in these resource-intensive activities puts significant investment at risk if we do not obtain regulatory approval and successfully commercialize telaprevir in north america. there is no assurance that our development of telaprevir will lead successfully to regulatory approval, or that obtaining regulatory approval will lead to commercial success of telaprevir. if telaprevir is not approved for commercial sale or if its development is delayed for any reason, our full investment in telaprevir may be at risk, we may face significant costs to dispose of unusable inventory, and our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. we depend on third-party manufacturers, including sole source suppliers, to manufacture materials for clinical trials and expect to continue to rely on them to meet our commercial supply needs for any drug candidate that is approved for sale. we may not be able to maintain these relationships and could experience supply disruptions outside of our control. we currently rely on a worldwide network of third-party manufacturers to manufacture and distribute our drug candidates for clinical trials, and we expect that we will continue to rely on third parties for the foreseeable future to meet our commercial supply needs for any of our drug candidates that are approved for sale. as a result of our reliance on these third-party manufacturers and suppliers, including sole source suppliers of certain components of our drug candidates, we may be subject to significant supply disruptions outside of our control. our supply chain for sourcing raw materials and manufacturing drug product ready for distribution is a multi-step international endeavor. third-party 39 table of contents contract manufacturers, including some in asia, supply us with raw materials, and contract manufacturers in the european union and the united states convert these raw materials into drug substance and convert the drug substance into final dosage form. establishing and managing this global supply chain requires a significant financial commitment and the creation and maintenance of numerous third-party contractual relationships. although we attempt to effectively manage the business relationships with companies in our supply chain, we do not have control over their operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to establish and maintain commercial supply chains on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, in order to support a timely launch of telaprevir or any of our other drug candidates. we require a supply of telaprevir for our clinical trials, and have agreed to exercise our contractual rights from our third-party manufacturers to provide a supply of telaprevir to janssen and mitsubishi tanabe for their clinical trials. we will require a supply of telaprevir for sale in north america if we are successful in obtaining marketing approval. we have completed the transfer of technical information regarding the manufacture of telaprevir to janssen so that janssen will be able to manufacture telaprevir, if approved, for sale in janssen's territories and as a secondary supply source of drug substance for us. we believe there are multiple third parties capable of providing most of the materials and services we need in order to manufacture and distribute telaprevir. we also believe that supply of materials which cannot be second-sourced can be managed with inventory planning. however, there is a risk that we may underestimate or overestimate demand, and the manufacturing capacity for which we planned and contracted with third-party manufacturers may not be sufficient or may result in more inventory than is necessary. in addition, because of the significant lead times involved in our supply chain for telaprevir, we may have less flexibility to adjust our supply in response to changes in demand than if we had shorter lead times. we require a supply of vx-770 for clinical trials in north america and europe, and will require a supply of vx-770 for sale in north america and europe if we obtain marketing approval. we obtain vx-770 to meet our clinical supply needs through a third-party manufacturer network and are focused on completing the technical development work to produce vx-770 at a commercial scale. we are in the process of expanding our existing relationships with our third-party manufacturers and establishing new relationships with third-party manufacturers, in order to establish the supply chain for vx-770 that would be required to support the potential commercial launch of vx-770. even if we successfully establish arrangements with third-party manufacturers, supply disruptions may result from a number of factors, including shortages in product raw materials, labor or technical difficulties, regulatory inspections or restrictions, shipping or customs delays or any other performance failure by any third-party manufacturer on which we rely. any supply disruptions could impact the timing of our clinical trials and the commercial launch of any approved drugs. furthermore, we may be required to modify our production methods to permit us to economically manufacture our drugs for commercial launch and sale. these modifications may require us to re-evaluate our resources and the resources of our third-party manufacturers, which could result in abrupt changes in our production methods and supplies. upon approval of a drug for sale, if any, we similarly may be at risk of supply chain disruption for our commercial drug supply. in the course of its services, a contract manufacturer may develop process technology related to the manufacture of our drug candidates that the manufacturer owns, either independently or jointly with us. this would increase our reliance on that manufacturer or require us to obtain a license from that manufacturer in order to have our products manufactured by other suppliers utilizing the same process. 40 table of contents we may need to raise additional capital that may not be available. we expect to incur substantial expenses as we design and develop existing and future compounds, undertake clinical trials, and build our drug supply, regulatory, development and commercial capabilities. we also expect to incur substantial administrative and commercialization expenses. as a result, we may raise additional capital in order to maintain adequate working capital and cash reserves to continue our diversified research, discovery and development efforts and expect we would need additional capital if the development of telaprevir were materially delayed. we anticipate that we would finance any additional cash needs with some combination of: public offerings or private placements of our debt or equity securities or other methods of financing; cash received from existing and future collaborative agreements; and future product sales. while we believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, will be sufficient to fund our operations for the next twelve months, we may raise additional capital through public offerings or private placements of our debt or equity securities. any such capital transactions may or may not be similar to the transactions that we have completed in the past. any debt financing may be on terms that, among other things, include conversion features that could result in dilution to our then-existing security holders and restrict our ability to pay interest and dividends although we do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. any equity financings would result in dilution to our then-existing security holders. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be required to curtail significantly or discontinue one or more of our research, drug discovery or development programs, including clinical trials, incur significant cash exit costs, or attempt to obtain funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, drugs or drug candidates. based on many factors, including general economic conditions, additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. we may not be successful in developing any of the drug candidates we acquired in our march 2009 acquisition of virochem and, as a result, we may not realize any benefits from this acquisition and could be subject to significant impairment charges in future periods. in march 2009, we acquired virochem for $100.0 million in cash and 10.7 million shares of our common stock. we acquired virochem primarily in order to secure rights to two hcv polymerase inhibitors, vx-222 and vx-759, as part of our strategy to pursue drug candidates that could potentially be developed in combination with telaprevir and/or our earlier-stage drug candidates. vx-222 and vx-759 were still in phase 1 clinical development at the time of the acquisition and have only been evaluated in nonclinical studies and in a limited number of patients infected with hcv. while we believe the data from the clinical trials to date, together with studies in animal models and in vitro data, support the development of combination therapies, there are numerous reasons why we may not be able to successfully develop a combination therapy involving either vx-222 or vx-759, including: data from trials involving drug candidates evaluated separately may not predict possible outcomes, such as unforeseen drug interactions, from drug candidates dosed in combination, which could negatively impact the efficacy and safety profile of the combination product candidate; positive results in small clinical trials and nonclinical studies may not be predictive of results in clinical trials involving large numbers of patients; and favorable results of testing or earlier fda or foreign regulatory approval of competitors' products. 41 table of contents there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop either vx-222 or vx-759 alone or in combination with telaprevir or our other hcv protease inhibitors, and if we are not successful in developing vx-222 or vx-759, we may not realize any benefits from our march 2009 acquisition of virochem. at the time of acquisition, we allocated $525.9 million to intangible assets related to the in-process research and development associated with the virochem drug candidates. in the fourth quarter of 2009, we recorded expense of $7.2 million in connection with an impairment of the intangible assets related to vch-286, a drug candidate for the treatment of hiv infection that we acquired from virochem. at december 31, 2009, our consolidated balance sheet included $518.7 million of intangible assets related to in-process research and development, approximately 80% of which related to vx-222 and approximately 20% of which related to vx-759. if the value of these drug candidates, and in particular vx-222, becomes impaired, we may incur significant impairment charges, including potentially the entire amount of the intangible assets reflected on our consolidated balance sheet associated with the drug candidate, in the period in which the impairment becomes known. an impairment could result from, among other things, unfavorable safety or efficacy results from clinical trials or nonclinical studies or competitive factors affecting the potential market for the drug candidate. vx-759, which is considered a backup compound to vx-222, could be impaired by data pertaining to the potential successful development of vx-222, which could result in a significant impairment charge in the period in which that determination is made. if we incur a significant impairment charge in a future period related to the intangible assets acquired in the virochem transaction, the value of our common stock could decrease. we rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such trials. we do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for our drug candidates, and we rely on third parties such as contract research organizations to help manage our clinical trial process and on medical institutions and clinical investigators to enroll qualified patients and conduct our clinical trials. our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. accordingly, these third-party contractors may not complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our trial design. if these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be required to replace them. although we believe that there are a number of other third-party contractors we could engage to continue these activities, it may result in a delay of the affected trial. if clinical trials are not conducted in accordance with our contractual expectations or regulatory requirements, action by regulatory authorities might significantly and adversely affect the conduct or progress of these trials or in specific circumstances might result in a requirement that a trial be redone. accordingly, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize our drug candidates could be delayed. issuances of additional shares of our common stock could cause the price of our common stock to decline. as of december 31, 2009, we had 200.0 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. as of december 31, 2009, we also had outstanding options to purchase 19.2 million shares of common stock with a weighted-average exercise price of $31.38 per share. outstanding vested options are likely to be exercised if the market price of our common stock exceeds the applicable exercise price. in addition, we may issue additional common stock or restricted securities in the future as part of our financing activities or business development activities and any such issuances may have a dilutive effect on existing shareholders. sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market, or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. in addition, the issuance of restricted common stock or common stock upon exercise of any outstanding options would be dilutive, and may cause the market price for a share of our common stock to decline. 42 table of contents outstanding indebtedness may make it more difficult to obtain additional financing or reduce our flexibility to act in our best interests. as of december 31, 2009, we had outstanding $32.1 million in aggregate principal amount of our 4.75% convertible senior subordinated notes due 2013, or 2013 notes. in february 2010, we announced that we will redeem the 2013 notes on march 19, 2010 and will be obligated to redeem the 2013 notes at the redemption price if the 2013 notes are not earlier converted by the holders, as expected, into shares of our common stock. we also are obligated to repay an aggregate of $155.0 million no later than october 31, 2012 as a result of our issuance of our secured notes due 2012, or the 2012 notes. we have issued significant amounts of convertible debt in the past and may issue additional convertible debt or incur other types of indebtedness in the future. the level of our indebtedness could affect us by: making it more difficult to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; constraining our ability to react quickly in an unfavorable economic climate or to changes in our business or the pharmaceutical industry; or requiring the dedication of substantial cash to service the repayment of any outstanding debt, including periodic interest payments, thereby reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes. if we acquire or license technologies, resources or drug candidates, we will incur a variety of costs and may never realize benefits from the transaction. if appropriate opportunities become available, we might attempt to license or acquire technologies, resources and drugs or drug candidates, including potentially complimentary hcv therapies. the process of negotiating the license or acquisition might result in operating difficulties and expenditures and, whether or not any such transaction is ever consummated, might require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. moreover, even if we complete a license or other transaction, we might never realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction or we may incur impairment charges related to assets acquired in any such transaction. for example, in the fourth quarter of 2009, we recorded expense of $7.2 million in connection with an impairment of the intangible assets related to vch-286, a drug candidate for the treatment of hiv infection that we acquired from virochem. future licenses or acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, the creation of contingent liabilities, impairment expenses related to goodwill, and impairment or amortization expenses related to other intangible assets, which could harm our financial condition. if we obtain regulatory approvals, our drug candidates will be subject to ongoing regulatory review. if we fail to comply with continuing united states and applicable foreign regulations, we could lose those approvals, and our business would be seriously harmed. if we receive regulatory approval of any drug candidates that we are developing, we will be subject to continuing regulatory review, including the review of clinical results that are reported after our drug candidates become commercially available. drugs are more widely used by patients once approval has been obtained, and therefore side-effects and other problems may be observed after approval that were not seen or anticipated during pre-approval clinical trials. in addition, the manufacturers and the manufacturing facilities we engage to make any of our drug candidates will also be subject to periodic review and inspection by the fda. the subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the drug, manufacturers or manufacturing facilities may result in restrictions on the drug, manufacturers or manufacturing facilities, including withdrawal of the drug from the market, our inability to use the facilities to make our drug or a determination that drug inventories are not safe for commercial sale. if 43 table of contents we fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval, product recalls and seizures, operating restrictions and/or criminal prosecutions. our drug development efforts are data-driven and therefore potentially subject to abrupt changes in expected outcomes. small molecule drug discovery and development involve, initially, the identification of chemical compounds that may have promise as treatments for specific diseases. once identified as drug candidates, compounds are subjected to years of testing in a laboratory setting, in animals and in humans. our ultimate objective is to determine whether the drug candidates have physical characteristics, both intrinsically and in animal and human systems, and a toxicological profile, that are compatible with clinical and commercial success in the treatment of the disease being targeted. throughout this process, experiments are conducted and data are gathered that could reinforce a decision to move to the next step in the investigation process for a particular drug candidate, could result in uncertainty over the proper course to pursue or could result in the termination of further drug development efforts with respect to the compound being evaluated. we monitor the results of our discovery research and our nonclinical studies and clinical trials and regularly evaluate and re-evaluate our portfolio investments with the objective of balancing risk and potential return in view of new data and scientific, business and commercial insights. this process can result in relatively abrupt changes in focus and priority as new information comes to light and we gain additional insights into ongoing programs and potential new programs. we may not have the resources to develop and commercialize all the drug candidates for which we have rights and we may not be able to attract collaborators for the development and commercialization of these drug candidates as part of our ongoing strategy, we expect to seek additional collaborative arrangements. we have a number of research programs and early-stage and mid-stage clinical development programs. depending on how these programs progress, we may not have the funding and/or the personnel to continue the development and commercialization of all of these programs internally. at any time, we may make the determination that in order to continue development of a drug candidate or program we need to identify a collaborator. potentially, and depending on the circumstances, we may desire that a collaborator either agree to fund portions of a drug development program led by us, or agree to provide all the funding and directly lead the development and commercialization of a program. no assurance can be given that any efforts we make to seek additional collaborative arrangements will be successfully completed on a timely basis or at all. if we are unable to enter into acceptable collaborative relationships, one or more of our development programs could be delayed or terminated, and the possibility of our receiving a return on our investment in the program could be impaired. risks associated with our international business relationships could materially adversely affect our business. we have manufacturing, collaborative and clinical trial relationships, and we and our collaborators are seeking approval for our drug candidates, outside the united states. in addition, we expect that if telaprevir is approved for commercial sale, a significant portion of our commercial supply chain, including sourcing of raw materials and manufacturing, will be located in asia and the european union. consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to risks related to operating in foreign countries. risks associated with conducting operations in foreign countries include: differing regulatory requirements for drug approvals in foreign countries; unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements; 44 table of contents economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees living or traveling abroad; foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes; foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses or reduced revenues, and other obligations incident to doing business or operating a subsidiary in another country; workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the united states; production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism. these and other risks associated with our international operations could materially adversely affect our business. if we fail to expand our human resources, and in particular our commercial organization, and manage our growth effectively, our business may suffer. we expect that if our clinical drug candidates continue to progress in development and our drug discovery efforts continue to generate drug candidates, we will require significant additional investment in personnel, management systems and resources, particularly in the build out of our commercial capabilities. in advance of the potential approval of telaprevir we will need to build the commercial organization that will be responsible for the commercial launch of telaprevir, if it receives marketing approval, in the united states. the number of our full-time employees increased by 6% in 2009 and 18% in 2008, and we expect to experience additional growth in 2010. because our drug discovery and development activities are highly technical in nature, we require the services of highly qualified and trained scientists who have the skills necessary to conduct these activities. in addition, as we attempt to grow our capabilities with respect to clinical development, regulatory affairs, quality control and sales and marketing, we need to attract and retain employees with experience in these fields. we face intense competition for our personnel from our competitors, our collaborators and other companies throughout our industry. moreover, the growth of local biotechnology companies and the expansion of major pharmaceutical companies into the boston area have increased competition for the available pool of skilled employees, especially in technical fields, and the high cost of living in the boston and san diego areas makes it difficult to attract employees from other parts of the country to these areas. our ability to commercialize our drug candidates, achieve our research and development objectives, and satisfy our commitments under our collaboration agreements depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands and expand our internal organization to accommodate additional anticipated growth. if we are unable to hire qualified personnel or manage our growth effectively, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. the loss of the services of key employees or the failure to effectively integrate key employees could negatively impact our business and future growth. our future success will depend in large part on our ability to retain the services of our key scientific and management personnel and to integrate new scientific and management personnel into our business. as we expand our capabilities in anticipation of the possible launch of commercial products, a loss of key personnel or a failure to properly integrate new personnel could be disruptive. 45 table of contents we have entered into employment agreements with some individuals and provide compensation-related benefits to all of our key employees that vest over time and therefore induce them to remain with us. however, the employment agreements can be terminated by the employee on relatively short notice. the value to employees of stock-related benefits that vest over time such as options and restricted stock will be significantly affected by movements in our stock price that we cannot control, and may at any point in time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. a failure to retain, as well as hire, train and effectively integrate into our organization a sufficient number of qualified scientists, professionals, sales personnel and senior management would negatively affect our business and our ability to grow our business. if our patents do not protect our drugs, or our drugs infringe third-party patents, we could be subject to litigation and substantial liabilities. we have numerous issued patents and patent applications pending in the united states, as well as foreign counterparts in other countries. our success will depend, in significant part, on our ability to obtain and maintain united states and foreign patent protection for our drugs, their uses and our processes, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. in particular, we believe that composition-of-matter claims are generally the most significant patent claims for companies in our segment of the pharmaceutical industry that focus on small molecule drug candidates that are new chemical compounds. while we currently have patents or patent applications with composition-of-matter claims for each of our more advanced clinical drug candidates, only a portion of these patents have been granted at this time. we cannot be certain that any patents will issue from our patent applications or, even if patents issue or have issued, that the issued claims will provide us with any significant protection against competitive products or otherwise be valuable commercially. legal standards relating to the validity of patents and the proper scope of their claims in the pharmaceutical field are still evolving, and there is no consistent law or policy regarding the valid breadth of claims in biopharmaceutical patents or the effect of prior art on them. if we are not able to obtain adequate patent protection, our ability to prevent competitors from making, using and selling similar drugs will be limited. furthermore, our activities may infringe the claims of patents held by third parties. defense and prosecution of infringement or other intellectual property claims, as well as participation in other inter-party proceedings, can be expensive and time-consuming, regardless of whether or not the outcome is favorable to us. if the outcome of any such litigation or proceeding were adverse, we could be subject to significant liabilities to third parties, could be required to obtain licenses from third parties or could be required to cease sales of affected drugs, any of which outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business. our business has a substantial risk of product liability claims. if we are unable to obtain appropriate levels of insurance, a product liability claim could adversely affect our business. our business exposes us to significant potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, clinical testing, manufacturing and sales and marketing of human therapeutic products. we currently have clinical trial insurance and will seek to obtain product liability insurance prior to the sales and marketing of any of our drug candidates. however, our insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. furthermore, clinical trial and product liability insurance is becoming increasingly expensive. as a result, we may be unable to maintain current amounts of insurance coverage or obtain additional or sufficient insurance at a reasonable cost to protect against losses that could have a material adverse effect on us. if a claim is brought against us, we might be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as uncovered damages awards resulting from a claim brought successfully against us. furthermore, whether or not we are ultimately 46 table of contents successful in defending any such claims, we might be required to direct significant financial and managerial resources to such defense, and adverse publicity is likely to result. if we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected. our research and development efforts involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. if an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. we are also subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. although we maintain workers' compensation insurance to cover us for costs we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. due to the small amount of hazardous materials that we generate, we have determined that the cost to secure insurance coverage for environmental liability and toxic tort claims far exceeds the benefits. accordingly, we do not maintain any insurance to cover pollution conditions or other extraordinary or unanticipated events relating to our use and disposal of hazardous materials. additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. we may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations. we have adopted anti-takeover provisions and are subject to massachusetts corporate laws that may frustrate any attempt to remove or replace our current management or effectuate a business combination involving vertex. our corporate charter and by-law provisions, massachusetts state laws and our stockholder rights plan may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change of control of vertex that might be beneficial to us or our security holders. our charter provides for staggered terms for the members of the board of directors. our by-laws grant the directors a right to adjourn annual meetings of stockholders, and certain provisions of our by-laws may be amended only with an 80% stockholder vote. pursuant to our stockholder rights plan, each share of common stock has an associated preferred share purchase right. the rights will not trade separately from the common stock until, and are exercisable only upon, the acquisition or the potential acquisition through tender offer by a person or group of 15% or more of the outstanding common stock. we may issue shares of any class or series of preferred stock in the future without stockholder approval and upon such terms as our board of directors may determine. the rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any class or series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. massachusetts state law prohibits us from engaging in specified business combinations, unless the combination is approved or consummated in a prescribed manner, and prohibits voting by any stockholder who acquires 20% or more of our voting stock without stockholder approval. as a result, stockholders or other parties may find it more difficult to remove or replace our current management. our stock price may fluctuate based on factors beyond our control. market prices for securities of companies such as ours are highly volatile. from january 1, 2008 to december 31, 2009, our common stock traded between $13.84 and $44.04 per share. the market for our stock, like that of other companies in the biotechnology field, has from time to time experienced 47 table of contents significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to our operating performance. the future market price of our securities could be significantly and adversely affected by factors such as: announcements of results of clinical trials or nonclinical studies relating to our drug candidates or those of our competitors; announcements of financial results and other operating performance measures, or capital structuring or financing activities; technological innovations or the introduction of new drugs by our competitors; government regulatory action; public concern as to the safety of drugs developed by others; developments in patent or other intellectual property rights or announcements relating to these matters; developments in domestic and international governmental policy or regulation, for example relating to intellectual property rights; developments relating specifically to other companies and market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks or stocks in general; and general worldwide or national economic, political and capital market conditions. our estimates of our liability under our kendall square lease may be inaccurate. we leased a 290,000 square foot facility in kendall square, cambridge, massachusetts in january 2003 for a 15-year term. we currently are not occupying the entire facility. we have sublease arrangements in place for the remaining rentable square footage of the facility. in determining our obligations under the lease for the part of the facility that we are not occupying, we have made certain assumptions relating to the time necessary to sublease the space after the expiration of the initial subleases, projected future sublease rental rates and the anticipated durations of future subleases. our estimates have changed in the past, and may change in the future, resulting in additional adjustments to the estimate of liability, and the effect of any such adjustments could be material. special note regarding forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k and, in particular, the description of our business set forth in item 1, the risk factors set forth in this item 1a and our management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations set forth in item 7 contain or incorporate a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding: our expectations regarding clinical trials, development timelines and regulatory authority filings and submissions for telaprevir, vx-770, vx-809, vx-509, vx-222, vx-765 and other drug candidates under development by us and our collaborators, including our intention to submit an nda for telaprevir in the united states in the second half of 2010, the potential of submitting an nda for vx-770 in the second half of 2011 and the potential commercial launch of telaprevir in the united states in 2011; our expectations regarding the expected date by which svr data will be available and/or publicly announced for our advance, realize and illuminate trials, and our expectations regarding the number of patients that will be evaluated, the trial design that will be utilized, the anticipated date by which enrollment will be completed and the expected date 48 table of contents interim data and/or final data will be available and/or publicly announced for our ongoing clinical trials in the endeavor registration program for vx-770, including the strive, envision and discover trials, and for the planned and ongoing clinical trials of vx-809, vx-222, vx-509, vx-765 and other drug candidates under development by us; expectations regarding the amount of, timing of and trends with respect to our revenues, our costs and expenses and other gains and losses, including those related to the intangible assets associated with the virochem acquisition and to the liabilities we recorded in connection with the financial transactions that we entered into in september 2009; our belief that if we are able to successfully commercialize telaprevir in accordance with current development timelines, we will begin receiving cash flows from the sale of telaprevir in 2011; the data that will be generated by ongoing and planned clinical trials, and the ability to use that data for the design and initiation of further clinical trials and to support regulatory filings, including potentially applications for marketing approval for telaprevir and vx-770; our plan to begin clinical evaluation of novel combination regimens of telaprevir with vx-222 in the first quarter of 2010, and the possibility that we will begin evaluation of combination regimens of vx-770 and vx-809 in patients with cf in the second half of 2010; our expectations regarding the future market demand and medical need for telaprevir and our other drug candidates; our beliefs regarding the support provided by clinical trials and preclinical and nonclinical studies of our drug candidates for further investigation, clinical trials or potential use as a treatment of those drug candidates; our ability to successfully market telaprevir and vx-770 or any of our other drug candidates if we are able to obtain regulatory approval; the focus of our drug development efforts and our financial and management resources and our plan to invest significant resources in telaprevir and our other drug candidates; the establishment, development and maintenance of collaborative relationships; potential business development activities, including with respect to our jak3 program; our ability to use our research programs to identify and develop new drug candidates to address serious diseases and significant unmet medical needs; our expectation that holders of our 2013 notes will convert the 2013 notes into shares of our common stock; our estimates regarding obligations associated with a lease of a facility in kendall square, cambridge, massachusetts; and our liquidity and our expectations regarding our needs for and ability to raise additional capital. any or all of our forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k may turn out to be wrong. they can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. many factors mentioned in this annual report on form 10-k will be important in determining future results. consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. actual future results may vary materially from expected results. we also provide a cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties under "risk factors" above in this item 1a. these are factors and uncertainties that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results. other factors and uncertainties besides those listed there could also adversely affect us. 49 table of contents without limiting the foregoing, the words "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "expects" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. there are a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control, including the factors and uncertainties set forth under "risk factors" above in this item 1a. in addition, the forward-looking statements contained herein represent our estimate only as of the date of this filing and should not be relied upon as representing our estimate as of any subsequent date. while we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 75 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk as part of our investment portfolio, we own financial instruments that are sensitive to market risks. the investment portfolio is used to preserve our capital until it is required to fund operations, including our research and development activities. none of these market risk-sensitive instruments are held for trading purposes. we do not have derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. interest rate risk we invest our cash in a variety of financial instruments, principally securities issued by the united states government and its agencies, investment grade corporate bonds and commercial paper, and money market funds. these investments are denominated in united states dollars. all of our interest-bearing securities are subject to interest rate risk, and could decline in value if interest rates fluctuate. substantially all of our investment portfolio consists of marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to help ensure portfolio liquidity, and we have implemented guidelines limiting the term-to-maturity of our investment instruments. due to the conservative nature of these instruments, we do not believe that we have a material exposure to interest rate risk. 75 table of contentsrisk factors 30 risk factors risk factors investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk, and you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k. if any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer, possibly materially. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. risks related to our business we depend heavily on the success in the united states of our lead drug candidate, telaprevir, which has not yet been approved by the fda. if we experience material delays in obtaining or are unable to obtain marketing approval for telaprevir our business will be materially harmed. we believe that a significant portion of the value attributed to our company by investors is based on the commercial potential of telaprevir, which has not yet been approved by the fda. the fda has substantial discretion in deciding whether or not telaprevir should be granted approval based on the benefits and risks of telaprevir-based therapies in the treatment of genotype 1 hcv infection. in november 2010, we submitted our nda for telaprevir to the fda. in january 2011, we were granted priority review designation for the telaprevir nda from the fda. although the fda's goal is to complete its review of nda submissions granted priority review designation in the six-month period following the initial submission of the nda, or by may 23, 2011 in the case of the telaprevir, the fda is not under any legal obligation to complete its review within this timeframe. the granting of priority review designation for our nda does not ensure that our nda for telaprevir will be approved. obtaining approval to market telaprevir in a timely manner will depend on many factors, including the following: whether or not the fda determines that the evidence gathered in well-controlled clinical trials, other clinical trials and nonclinical studies of telaprevir demonstrates that telaprevir is safe and effective as a treatment for genotype 1 hcv infection; whether or not the fda is satisfied that the manufacturing facilities, processes and controls for telaprevir are adequate, that the labeling is satisfactory and that plans for post-marketing studies, safety monitoring and risk evaluation and mitigation are sufficient; and the timing and nature of the fda's comments and questions regarding the nda for telaprevir, the scheduling and recommendations of any advisory committee meeting to consider telaprevir, the time required to respond to the fda's comments and questions and to obtain the final labeling for telaprevir and any other delays that may be associated with the nda review process. if we experience material delays in obtaining marketing approval for telaprevir in the united states, we will not receive product revenues during the delay and may be at a competitive disadvantage if merck's potentially competitive hcv protease inhibitor boceprevir is approved significantly before telaprevir. any such delay may materially harm our product revenues and cash flows. if we do not obtain approval to market telaprevir in the united states, our business will be materially harmed. in order to execute our business plan and achieve profitability, we need to effectively commercialize telaprevir. we can not be sure that telaprevir will be commercially successful in the pharmaceutical market even if we and janssen gain marketing approval for telaprevir in a timely manner. in addition to the other challenges related to a company launching its first commercial drug, we may face competition from merck &amp; co., inc., which is developing boceprevir, a potentially competitive hcv protease inhibitor. in january 2011, merck announced that it had received priority review designation from the 30 table of contents fda for its nda for boceprevir. as a result, we expect that boceprevir will be reviewed by the fda on a very similar timeline to telaprevir and may be approved prior to telaprevir. we expect that the initial commercial success of telaprevir will depend on many factors, including the following: the efficacy, cost, breadth of approved use, side-effect profile and cost of co-therapies of telaprevir-based treatment regimens relative to competitive treatment regimens, including boceprevir-based treatment regimens if boceprevir is approved; the relative timing of marketing approvals from the fda and comparable foreign regulatory authorities for telaprevir and boceprevir; the effectiveness of our commercial strategy for the launch and marketing of telaprevir, including our pricing strategy and the effectiveness of our efforts to obtain adequate third-party reimbursements; the number of patients with genotype 1 hcv infection, including treatment-na&iuml;ve patients and patients who did not achieve an svr with prior treatment, who seek treatment; maintaining and successfully monitoring commercial manufacturing arrangements for telaprevir with third-party manufacturers to ensure they meet our standards and those of regulatory authorities, including the fda, which extensively regulate and monitor pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities; our ability to meet the demand for commercial supplies of telaprevir; our ability to increase awareness of the benefits of early treatment of hcv infection and to increase the rates of diagnosis and subsequent treatment of currently undiagnosed patients with genotype 1 hcv infection; the acceptance of telaprevir by patients, the medical community and third-party payors; and the effect of new health care legislation currently being implemented in the united states. while we believe that telaprevir will have a commercially competitive profile, we cannot accurately predict the amount of revenue that will be generated if telaprevir receives regulatory approval. if we do not effectively commercialize telaprevir, we will not be able to execute our business plan and may not be able to achieve profitability. if our revenues, market share and/or other indicators of market acceptance of telaprevir do not meet the expectations of investors or public market analysts, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. even if we or our collaborators gain regulatory approval for any of our drug candidates, if our recently established sales and marketing capabilities or our third-party relationships for the commercialization of our drug candidates are not effective, our drug candidates may not be successfully commercialized. we have no experience as a company in marketing drugs or with respect to pricing and obtaining adequate third-party reimbursement for drugs. in 2010, we significantly expanded our commercial organization in the united states in order to prepare to market telaprevir and are establishing a commercial organization in canada. we have entered into collaborations that provide our collaborators the right to market telaprevir outside of north america. we will need to expand our capabilities and/or enter into additional arrangements with third parties to sell and market our other drug candidates if they are approved for sale. to the extent that our collaborators have commercial rights to our drugs, any revenues we receive from sales of any approved drugs in locations where our collaborators have rights will depend primarily on the sales and marketing efforts of these collaborators, which we do not control and may not be able to effectively influence. if our recently established sales and marketing 31 table of contents capabilities or our third-party relationships for the commercialization of our drug candidates are not effective, our business could be materially harmed. we are investing significant resources in our development program for vx-770, based primarily on data from a relatively small clinical trial in which patients received vx-770 over a short duration. if we are unable to show the safety and efficacy of vx-770, or experience delays in doing so, our business could be materially harmed. we have increased the resources that we are investing in the development of vx-770 and are conducting a registration program for vx-770 focused on patients with cf who have the g551d mutation. we initiated this registration program based primarily on data from a phase 2a clinical trial of vx-770 in 39 patients with cf, in which patients received vx-770 over 14-day and 28-day periods. this is a relatively small number of patients from which to project the final outcomes of a drug development program. in order to receive approval for vx-770, we will need to show that vx-770 is safe and effective in a larger number of patients than were involved in the phase 2a clinical trial, over significantly longer dosing periods. in addition, our registration program for vx-770 includes pediatric patient populations in which vx-770 has not previously been studied. since a substantial portion of the cf population is under age 18, vx-770's potential commercial success will be dependent not only on marketing approval for adult patients, but also on approval for pediatric patients. if we are unable to show the safety and efficacy of vx-770 in the relevant patient populations, or experience delays in doing so, our business could be materially harmed. we expect to incur future losses, and we may never become profitable. we have incurred significant operating losses each year since our inception, including net losses of $754.6 million, $642.2 million and $459.9 million during the years ended december 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. we expect to continue to incur operating losses at least until we are able to obtain approval in the united states for telaprevir and begin generating product revenues, because we are continuing to invest significant amounts in telaprevir and vx-770, in clinical development of our earlier-stage drug candidates and in research activities. as a result, we believe it is likely that our expenses will exceed our revenues at least until we begin receiving substantial product revenues. there can be no assurance that any of our drug candidates will be approved or, if approved, will be commercially successful. there also can be no assurance that we will begin generating earnings as a cashflow positive company during 2012. our net losses have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on, among other things, our stockholders' equity, total assets and working capital. we expect that our results of operations will fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year, and that such fluctuations may be substantial. we can not provide assurance that we will ever become profitable. if any of our drug candidates receive regulatory approval, the approved drug will be subject to ongoing regulatory review. if we or our collaborators fail to comply with continuing united states and applicable foreign regulations, any approved drug could lose its approval or sales could be suspended, and our business would be seriously harmed. if we or our collaborators receive regulatory approval for any of our drug candidates in development including telaprevir and vx-770, we and our collaborators will be subject to continuing regulatory review, including the review of clinical results reported after approval. drugs are more widely used by patients once approval has been obtained and therefore side-effects and other problems may be observed after approval that were not seen or anticipated during pre-approval clinical trials or nonclinical studies. in addition, the manufacturers and the manufacturing facilities we engage to make any of our approved drugs also will be subject to periodic review and inspection by the fda and applicable foreign regulatory authorities. the subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with the drug, a manufacturer or manufacturing facility may result in restrictions on the drug, a 32 table of contents manufacturer or manufacturing facility, including withdrawal of the drug from the market, inability to use the facility to make our drug or a determination that drug inventories are not safe for commercial sale. if we or our collaborators fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we or our collaborators may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval, product recalls and seizures, operating restrictions and/or criminal prosecutions. our drug candidates remain subject to clinical testing and regulatory approval. if we are unable to successfully develop and test our drug candidates, we will not be successful. the success of our business depends primarily upon successful development and commercialization of our drug candidates. our drug candidates are in various stages of development and must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before they can be approved by the fda or comparable foreign regulatory authorities for sale. to satisfy these standards, we must allocate resources among our various development programs and must engage in expensive and lengthy testing of our drug candidates. these discovery and development efforts for new pharmaceutical products, including follow-on compounds and/or new combination therapies, are resource-intensive and may take 10 to 15 years or longer for each drug candidate. despite our efforts, our drug candidates may not: offer therapeutic or other improvement over existing competitive drugs; be proven safe and effective in clinical trials; meet applicable regulatory standards; be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs; or if approved for commercial sale, be successfully marketed as pharmaceutical products. in addition to our registration program for vx-770, we have ongoing phase 2a clinical trials for a number of our earlier-stage drug candidates, including a clinical trial of telaprevir/vx-222-based treatment regimens in patients with genotype 1 hcv infection, a clinical trial of vx-809 in combination with vx-770 in patients with the most common cf mutation, a clinical trial of vx-509 in patients with moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis and a clinical trial of vx-765 in patients with epilepsy. while we are heavily dependent on obtaining approval for telaprevir and the success of our registration program for vx-770, the strength of our company's pipeline of drug candidates, including drug candidates that could potentially be complementary to telaprevir and/or vx-770, will depend in large part upon the outcomes of these ongoing phase 2a clinical trials. findings, including toxicology findings, in nonclinical studies conducted concurrently with clinical trials as well as results of our clinical trials could lead to abrupt changes in our development activities, including the possible cessation of development activities associated with a particular drug candidate or program. furthermore, results from our clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the fda or other regulatory authorities for approval of a drug candidate. we and many other companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in later-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in earlier-stage clinical trials. accordingly, the results from the completed preclinical studies and clinical trials may not be replicated in later clinical trials, and ongoing clinical trials for our drug candidates may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later-stage trials or of the likelihood of approval of a drug candidate for commercial sale. in addition, from time to time we report interim data from our clinical trials, including, with respect to our hcv drug candidates, data regarding patients' hcv rna levels during treatment, at the completion of treatment or 12 weeks after completion of treatment. interim data are subject to change, and there can be no assurances that interim data will be confirmed upon the analysis of final data. 33 table of contents if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval, we will be unable to commercialize our drug candidates. our drug candidates are subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to their development, clinical evaluation, manufacturing and commercialization. rigorous nonclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory approval process are required in the united states and in most other countries prior to the commercial sale of drug candidates. satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time-consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. it is possible that none of the drug candidates we are developing will be approved for marketing. we have limited experience in conducting and managing the late-stage clinical trials and nda process necessary to obtain regulatory approvals, including approval by the fda. the time required to complete clinical trials and to satisfy the fda and other countries' regulatory review processes is uncertain and typically takes many years. our analysis of data obtained from nonclinical and clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. we may also encounter unanticipated delays or increased costs due to government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in fda policy during the period of drug development, clinical trials and fda regulatory review. any delay in obtaining or failure to obtain required approvals could materially adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize a drug candidate. furthermore, any regulatory approval to market a drug may be subject to limitations that we do not expect on the indicated uses for which we may market the drug. any such limitations could reduce the size of the market for the drug. we also are subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement. the foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with the fda approval process described above, as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of foreign requirements. approval by the fda does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities outside the united states and approval by a foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by the fda. foreign jurisdictions may have different approval procedures than those required by the fda and may impose additional testing requirements for our drug candidates. we depend on third-party manufacturers, including sole source suppliers, to manufacture materials for clinical trials and expect to continue to rely on them to meet our commercial supply needs for any drug candidate that is approved for sale, including telaprevir. we may not be able to maintain these relationships and could experience supply disruptions outside of our control. we rely on a worldwide network of third-party manufacturers to manufacture and distribute our drug candidates for clinical trials, and we expect that we will continue to rely on third parties for the foreseeable future to meet our commercial supply needs for any of our drug candidates that are approved for sale, including telaprevir. as a result of our reliance on these third-party manufacturers and suppliers, including sole source suppliers of certain components of our drug candidates, we could be subject to significant supply disruptions outside of our control. our supply chain for sourcing raw materials and manufacturing drug product ready for distribution is a multi-step international endeavor. third-party contract manufacturers, including some in china, supply us with raw materials, and contract manufacturers in the european union and the united states convert these raw materials into drug substance and convert the drug substance into final dosage form. establishing and managing this global supply chain requires a significant financial commitment and the creation and maintenance of numerous third-party contractual relationships. although we attempt to effectively manage the business relationships with companies in our supply chain, we do not have control over their operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to establish and maintain commercial supply chains on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, in order to support the launch of telaprevir or any of our other drug candidates. 34 table of contents we will require a supply of telaprevir for sale in north america if we are successful in obtaining marketing approval. we currently are exercising our contractual rights from our third-party manufacturers to provide a supply to janssen and mitsubishi tanabe of telaprevir and/or materials required to manufacture telaprevir. we have completed the transfer of technical information regarding the manufacture of telaprevir to janssen so that janssen will be able to manufacture telaprevir for sale in janssen's territories, if telaprevir is approved in any of these territories, and as a secondary supply source of drug substance for us. we believe there are multiple third parties capable of providing most of the materials and services we need in order to manufacture and distribute telaprevir. we also believe that supply of materials that can not be second-sourced can be managed with inventory planning. however, there is a risk that we may underestimate or overestimate demand, and the manufacturing capacity for which we planned and contracted with third-party manufacturers may not be sufficient or may result in more inventory than is necessary. in addition, because of the significant lead times involved in our supply chain for telaprevir, we may have less flexibility to adjust our supply in response to changes in demand than if we had shorter lead times. we require a supply of vx-770 for clinical trials in north america and europe, and we will require a supply of vx-770 for sale in north america and international markets if we obtain marketing approval for this drug candidate. we obtain vx-770 to meet our clinical supply needs through a third-party manufacturing network and are in the process of validating the manufacturing processes that will be required to produce vx-770, if approved, at a commercial scale. we are in the process of expanding our existing relationships with our third-party manufacturers and establishing new relationships with third-party manufacturers, in order to establish the supply chain for vx-770 that would be required to support a commercial launch of vx-770. even if we successfully establish arrangements with third-party manufacturers, supply disruptions may result from a number of factors, including shortages in product raw materials, labor or technical difficulties, regulatory inspections or restrictions, shipping or customs delays or any other performance failure by any third-party manufacturer on which we rely. any supply disruptions could disrupt the timing of our clinical trials and the commercial launch of any approved drugs. furthermore, we may be required to modify our production methods to permit us to economically manufacture our drugs for commercial launch and sale. these modifications may require us to re-evaluate our resources and the resources of our third-party manufacturers, which could result in abrupt changes in our production methods and supplies. if any of our drug candidates are approved for sale, we similarly may be at risk of supply chain disruption for our commercial drug supply. in addition, holders of exclusivity for orphan drugs, which we expect to hold for vx-770 if it is approved, are expected to assure the availability of sufficient quantities of their orphan drugs to meet the needs of patients. failure to do so could result in the withdrawal of marketing exclusivity for the orphan drug. in the course of providing its services, a contract manufacturer may develop process technology related to the manufacture of our drug candidates that the manufacturer owns, either independently or jointly with us. this would increase our reliance on that manufacturer or require us to obtain a license from that manufacturer in order to have our products manufactured by other suppliers utilizing the same process. if clinical trials for a drug candidate are prolonged or delayed, our development timelines for the affected drug candidate could be extended, our costs to develop the drug candidate could increase and the competitive position of the drug candidate could be adversely affected. we can not predict whether or not we will encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause us or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend clinical trials, 35 table of contents or delay the analysis of data from our completed or ongoing clinical trials. any of the following could delay the clinical development of our drug candidates: ongoing discussions with the fda or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials and the number of clinical trials we must conduct; delays in enrolling volunteers or patients into clinical trials, including as a result of low numbers of patients that meet the eligibility criteria for the trial; a lower than anticipated retention rate of volunteers or patients in clinical trials; the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive results, unforeseen complications in testing or clinical investigator error; inadequate supply or deficient quality of drug candidate materials or other materials necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials; unfavorable fda or foreign regulatory authority inspection and review of a manufacturing facility for a drug candidate or its relevant manufacturing records or a clinical trial site or records of any clinical or preclinical investigation; unfavorable scientific results from clinical trials of our drug candidates; serious and unexpected drug-related side-effects experienced by participants in our clinical trials; favorable results in testing of our competitors' drug candidates, or fda or foreign regulatory authority approval of our competitors' drug candidates; or action by the fda or a foreign regulatory authority to place a clinical hold on a trial. our ability to enroll patients in our clinical trials in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis will be subject to a number of factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the number of other clinical trials ongoing and competing for patients in the same indication and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. in addition, subjects may drop out of our clinical trials or may be lost to follow-up medical evaluation after treatment ends, and this could possibly impair the validity or statistical significance of the trials. delays in patient enrollment or unforeseen drop-out rates may result in increased costs and longer development times. we, our collaborators, the fda or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a drug candidate at any time if we or they believe the subjects or patients participating in such clinical trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. any such suspension could materially adversely affect the development of a particular drug candidate and our business. in addition, it is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted, or whether fda or other applicable regulatory authority regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. if we experience any such problems, we may not continue development of the drug candidate that is affected. 36 table of contents government and other third-party payors seek to contain costs of health care through legislative and other means. if they fail to provide coverage and adequate payment rates for our future drugs, our revenues and prospects for profitability will be harmed. in both domestic and foreign markets, our sales of any future drugs will depend in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. third-party payors include government health programs such as medicare and medicaid, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. governments and other third-party payors generally seek to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means. for example, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of therapeutic and other pharmaceutical products is subject to governmental control. in the united states, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental control. in the united states, the recently enacted ppaca will significantly affect the pharmaceutical industry. the ppaca will require discounts under the medicare drug benefit program and increases the rebates paid by pharmaceutical companies on drugs covered by medicaid. in addition, the ppaca imposes an annual fee, which will increase annually, on sales by branded pharmaceutical manufacturers starting in 2011. the financial impact of these discounts, increased rebates and fees and the other provisions of the ppaca on our business is unclear and there can be no assurance that our business will not be materially adversely affected by the ppaca. in addition, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by demanding price discounts or rebates and limiting both the types and variety of drugs that they will cover and the amounts that they will pay for drugs. as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our future drugs. we might need to conduct post-marketing studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of any future drugs to such payors' satisfaction. such studies might require us to commit a significant amount of management time and financial and other resources. our future drugs might not ultimately be considered cost-effective. adequate third-party reimbursement might not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. reimbursement rates may vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost products that are already reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other products or services, and may reflect budgetary constraints and/or imperfections in medicare or medicaid data used to calculate these rates. net prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs. while we are implementing policies in an effort to comply with mandated reimbursement rates, the federal government, state governments and private payors frequently pursue actions against pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies alleging that the companies have overstated prices in order to inflate reimbursement rates. any such action could adversely affect the pricing of and the commercial success of any of our drug candidates approved for sale. any legislation, or similar regulatory changes or relaxation of laws that restrict imports of drugs from other countries, also could reduce the net price we receive for our marketed drugs. we have no experience as a company with respect to pricing and obtaining adequate third-party reimbursement for drugs. if our capabilities and policies in this are not effective, any future drugs may not be commercially successful and our business could be materially harmed. healthcare reform measures could hinder or prevent our drug candidates' commercial success. the united states federal government and other governments have shown significant interest in pursuing healthcare reform. any additional government-adopted reform measures could adversely affect the pricing of healthcare products, including any of our drug candidates approved for sale, in the united states or internationally and the amount of reimbursement available from governmental agencies or other third party payors. the continuing efforts of governments, insurance companies, 37 table of contents managed care organizations and other payors for healthcare products to contain or reduce healthcare costs may adversely affect our ability to set prices we believe are fair for any drugs we may develop and commercialize. new laws, regulations and judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations and decisions, relating to healthcare availability, methods of delivery or payment for drugs, or sales, marketing or pricing, may limit our potential revenues, and we may need to revise our research and development or commercialization programs. the pricing and reimbursement environment may change in the future and become more challenging due to several reasons, including policies advanced by the u.s. government, new healthcare legislation or fiscal challenges faced by government health administration authorities. specifically, in both the united states and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals and initiatives to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell any of our drug candidates that are approved for sale. some of these proposed and implemented reforms could result in reduced reimbursement rates for our drug candidates, which would adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. for example, in march 2010, the ppaca, a legislative overhaul of the u.s. healthcare system, was enacted into law, which may have far reaching consequences for biopharmaceutical companies like us. as a result of this new legislation, substantial changes could be made to the current system for paying for healthcare in the united states, including changes made in order to extend medical benefits to those who currently lack insurance coverage. extending coverage to a large population could substantially change the structure of the health insurance system and the methodology for reimbursement. if reimbursement for our approved drug candidates, if any, is substantially less than we expect in the future, or rebate obligations associated with them are substantially increased, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. further federal and state proposals and healthcare reforms could limit the prices that can be charged for the drug candidates that we develop and may further limit our commercial opportunity. our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the ppaca, by the medicare prescription drug coverage legislation, by the possible effect of such current or future legislation on amounts that private insurers will pay and by other healthcare reforms that may be enacted or adopted in the future. we expect that results from our and our collaborators' clinical development activities and the clinical development activities of our competitors will continue to be released periodically, and may result in significant volatility in the price of our common stock. any new information regarding our drug candidates or potentially competitive drugs or drug candidates, and in particular any new information regarding telaprevir and potentially competitive hcv drug candidates, can substantially affect investors' perceptions regarding our future prospects. we, our collaborators and our competitors periodically provide updates regarding drug development programs, typically through press releases, conference calls and presentations at medical conferences. these periodic updates often include interim or final results from clinical trials conducted by us, our collaborators or our competitors and/or information about our or our competitors' expectations regarding regulatory filings and submissions as well as future clinical development of our drug candidates or potentially competitive drugs or drug candidates. the timing of the release of information by us regarding our drug development programs is often beyond our control and is influenced by when we receive data from our clinical trials and by the general preference among pharmaceutical companies to disclose clinical data and other information during medical conferences. in addition, because clinical trials of drug candidates for the treatment of hcv infection often occur over more than one year, the information that we, our collaborators and our competitors disclose about these trials may be based on interim rather than final data that may involve interpretation difficulties and may in any event not accurately reflect final results. 38 table of contents if our competitors bring superior drugs to market or bring their drugs to market before we do, we may be unable to find a market for our drug candidates. any drug we develop may not be able to compete effectively with drugs that are currently on the market or new drugs that may be developed by others. there are many other companies developing drugs for the same indications that we are pursuing. in order to compete successfully in these areas, we must demonstrate improved safety, efficacy and ease of manufacturing and gain market acceptance over competing drugs that may receive regulatory approval before or after our drug candidates, and over those that currently are marketed. many of our competitors, including major pharmaceutical companies such as merck, bristol-myers squibb, glaxosmithkline, pfizer, roche, amgen, novartis and johnson &amp; johnson, possess substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we possess. in addition, many of our competitors have significantly greater experience than we have in conducting nonclinical testing and human clinical trials of drug candidates, scaling up manufacturing operations and obtaining regulatory approvals of drugs and manufacturing facilities. accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for drugs more rapidly than we do. if we obtain regulatory approval and launch commercial sales of our drug candidates, we also will compete with respect to manufacturing efficiency and sales and marketing capabilities, areas in which we currently have limited experience. in particular, a significant number of companies are focused on developing treatments for genotype 1 hcv infection. in addition to the initial competition that we may face from merck's boceprevir, we are aware of a number of companies that are developing new treatments for hcv infection including hcv protease inhibitors, hcv polymerase inhibitors, hcv ns5a inhibitors and advanced interferons. although drug development is a lengthy process and involves a high degree of risk, at some point during the next several years one or more of these earlier-stage drug candidates may be approved by the fda. as a result, the longer-term commercial prospects for telaprevir will depend on, among other factors: the efficacy, safety and other characteristics of telaprevir relative to future treatments for hcv infection; our ability to establish telaprevir as a significant component of any oral combination or shorter duration therapies that may be approved as a treatment for hcv infection; and the timing of marketing approvals for drugs being developed by our competitors, including in particular any other protease inhibitors, including merck's boceprevir, and any oral combination or shorter duration therapies. as a result, even if we are initially successful in commercializing telaprevir, it is possible that one or more competing therapies could be approved with a better safety and efficacy profile, which we believe could negatively impact telaprevir sales. if physicians, patients and third-party payors do not accept our future drugs, we may be unable to generate significant revenues, if any. even if we obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates, our approved drugs may not gain market acceptance among physicians and patients. we believe that effectively marketing telaprevir, if it is approved, and our other drug candidates, if any of them are approved, will require substantial efforts, both prior to launch and after approval. physicians may elect not to prescribe our drugs, and patients may elect not to request or take them, for a variety of reasons including: lower demonstrated clinical safety and efficacy compared to other drugs; prevalence and severity of adverse side-effects; lack of cost-effectiveness; 39 table of contents lack of reimbursement availability from third-party payors; a decision to wait for the approval of other therapies that have significant perceived advantages over our drug candidates; convenience and ease of administration; other potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; and ineffective marketing and distribution support. if our approved drugs fail to achieve market acceptance, we will not be able to generate significant revenues. if our processes and systems are not compliant with regulatory requirements, we could be subject to delays in submitting ndas or restrictions on marketing of drugs after they have been approved. we are developing drug candidates for regulatory approval for the first time since our inception, and have been implementing regulated processes and systems required to obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our drug candidates. certain of these processes and systems for conducting clinical trials and manufacturing material were required to be compliant with regulatory requirements before we applied for regulatory approval for telaprevir. these processes and systems will be subject to continual review and periodic inspection by the fda and other regulatory bodies. if compliance issues are identified at any point in the development and approval process, we may experience delays in filing for regulatory approval for our drug candidates, or delays in obtaining regulatory approval after filing. in addition, any later discovery of previously unknown problems or safety issues with approved drugs or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in restrictions on such drugs or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of drugs from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal penalties or a refusal by the fda and/or other regulatory bodies to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we are a party to agreements that transfer responsibility for complying with specified regulatory requirements, such as filing and maintenance of marketing authorizations and safety reporting or compliance with manufacturing requirements, to our collaborators and third-party manufacturers. if our collaborators or third-party manufacturers do not fulfill these regulatory obligations, any drugs for which we or they obtain approval may be subject to later restrictions on manufacturing or sale, or may even risk withdrawal, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we depend on our collaborators to work with us to develop, manufacture and commercialize some of our drug candidates. we have granted development and commercialization rights for telaprevir to janssen (worldwide other than north america and far east) and to mitsubishi tanabe (far east). we expect to receive meaningful regulatory, technical, manufacturing and commercial contributions to the telaprevir program from janssen and will be entitled to royalties from any sales of telaprevir, if approved, in janssen's territories. the success of our telaprevir program is dependent upon the continued support that janssen has agreed to provide, and janssen has significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that it will apply to the collaboration. the risks that we face in connection with these existing and any future collaborations include the following: our collaboration agreements are subject to termination under various circumstances, including, as in the case of our agreement with janssen, termination without cause. any such termination by janssen could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and/or delay the development and commercial sale of telaprevir in janssen's territories. 40 table of contents our collaborators may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts or may have insufficient resources to effectively develop our drug candidates. pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies historically have re-evaluated their development and commercialization priorities following mergers and consolidations, which have been common in recent years in these industries. the ability of some of our drug candidates to reach their potential could be limited if collaborators decrease or fail to increase development or commercialization efforts related to those drug candidates. any future collaboration agreements may have the effect of limiting the areas of research and development that we may pursue, either alone or in collaboration with third parties. collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, drugs that are similar to or competitive with the drugs or drug candidates that are the subject of their collaborations with us. janssen is seeking approval from the ema to market telaprevir in the european union. the regulatory process in the european union is similar to the process in the united states, but typically takes longer to complete. if janssen experiences material delays in obtaining marketing approval for telaprevir in its territories, we will not receive royalty revenues during the delay. if janssen is unable to obtain approvals to market telaprevir in its territory, we will not receive royalty payments from telaprevir sales in janssen's territories, which could materially harm our cash flows. our investment in the clinical development and manufacture of a commercial supply of telaprevir may not result in any benefit to us if telaprevir is not approved for commercial sale. telaprevir is the first drug candidate that we expect to commercialize in a major market. we are planning for and investing significant resources in order to seek marketing approval for telaprevir, to build our commercial supply inventories of drug product, and to complete our scale-up of sales and marketing capacity. our costs to obtain a commercial supply of telaprevir have included approximately $63 million, $20 million and $17 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. our engagement in these resource-intensive activities puts significant investment at risk if we do not obtain regulatory approval and successfully commercialize telaprevir in north america. there is no assurance that our development of telaprevir will lead successfully to regulatory approval, or that obtaining regulatory approval will lead to commercial success of telaprevir. if telaprevir is not approved for commercial sale or if its development is delayed for any reason, our full investment in telaprevir may be at risk, we may face significant costs to dispose of unusable inventory, and our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. we may need to raise additional capital that may not be available. we expect to incur substantial expenses as we design and develop existing and future compounds, undertake clinical trials, seek regulatory approvals and build our drug supply, regulatory, development and commercial capabilities. we also expect to incur substantial administrative and commercialization expenses. as a result, we may raise additional capital beyond our current resources. we anticipate that we would finance any additional cash needs with some combination of: public offerings or private placements of our debt or equity securities, asset-backed borrowings or other methods of financing; cash received from existing and future collaborative agreements; and future product sales. we believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next twelve months. we may, however, raise additional capital through public offerings or private placements of our debt or equity securities. any such capital 41 table of contents transactions may or may not be similar to the transactions that we have completed in the past. any debt financing may be on terms that, among other things, include conversion features that could result in dilution to our then-existing security holders and restrict our ability to pay interest and dividends although we do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. any equity financings would result in dilution to our then-existing security holders. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be required to curtail significantly or discontinue one or more of our research, drug discovery or development programs, including clinical trials, incur significant cash exit costs, or attempt to obtain funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, drugs or drug candidates. based on many factors, including general economic conditions, additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. we may not be successful in developing either of the hcv polymerase inhibitors we acquired in our acquisition of virochem and, as a result, we may not realize any benefits from this acquisition and could be subject to significant impairment charges in future periods. in march 2009, we acquired virochem pharma inc., or virochem, for $100.0 million in cash and 10.7 million shares of our common stock. we acquired virochem primarily in order to secure rights to two hcv polymerase inhibitors, vx-222 and vx-759, as part of our strategy to pursue drug candidates that could potentially be developed in combination with telaprevir and/or our earlier- stage drug candidates. vx-222 and vx-759 were still in phase 1 clinical development at the time of the acquisition and have only been evaluated in nonclinical studies and in a limited number of patients infected with hcv. while we believe the data from the clinical trials and nonclinical studies to date support the development of combination therapies, there are numerous reasons why we may not be able to successfully develop a combination therapy involving either vx-222 or vx-759, including: data from trials involving drug candidates evaluated separately may not predict possible outcomes, such as unforeseen drug interactions, from drug candidates dosed in combination, which could negatively impact the efficacy and safety profile of the combination product candidate; positive results in small clinical trials and nonclinical studies may not be predictive of results in clinical trials involving large numbers of patients; and favorable results of testing or earlier fda or foreign regulatory approval of competitors' products. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop either vx-222 or vx-759 alone or in combination with telaprevir or our other hcv protease inhibitors, and if we are not successful in developing vx-222 or vx-759, we may not realize any benefits from our acquisition of virochem. at the time of acquisition, we allocated $525.9 million to intangible assets related to the in-process research and development associated with the virochem drug candidates. in the fourth quarter of 2009, we recorded expense of $7.2 million in connection with an impairment of the intangible assets related to vch-286, a drug candidate for the treatment of hiv infection that we acquired from virochem. at december 31, 2010, our consolidated balance sheet included $518.7 million of intangible assets related to in-process research and development, approximately 80% of which related to vx-222 and approximately 20% of which related to vx-759. if the value of these drug candidates, and in particular vx-222, becomes impaired, we may incur significant impairment charges, including potentially the entire amount of the intangible assets reflected on our consolidated balance sheet associated with the drug candidate, in the period in which the impairment becomes known. an impairment could result from, among other things, unfavorable safety or efficacy results from clinical trials or nonclinical studies or competitive factors affecting the potential market for the drug candidate. vx-759, which is considered a backup compound to vx-222, could be impaired by data pertaining to the potential successful development of vx-222, which could result in a significant impairment charge 42 table of contents in the period in which that determination is made. if we incur a significant impairment charge in a future period related to the intangible assets acquired in the virochem transaction, the value of our common stock could decrease. we rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such trials. we do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for our drug candidates, and we rely on third parties such as contract research organizations to help manage our clinical trial process and on medical institutions and clinical investigators to enroll qualified patients and conduct our clinical trials. our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. accordingly, these third-party contractors may not complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our trial design. if these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be required to replace them. although we believe that there are a number of other third-party contractors we could engage to continue these activities, it may result in a delay of the affected trial. if clinical trials are not conducted in accordance with our contractual expectations or regulatory requirements, action by regulatory authorities might significantly and adversely affect the conduct or progress of these trials or in specific circumstances might result in a requirement that a trial be redone. accordingly, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize our drug candidates could be delayed. issuances of additional shares of our common stock could cause the price of our common stock to decline. as of december 31, 2010, we had 203.5 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. as of december 31, 2010, we also had outstanding options to purchase 21.3 million shares of common stock with a weighted-average exercise price of $30.50 per share and 8.2 million shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of our outstanding convertible senior subordinated notes due 2015, or 2015 notes, at a conversion price of approximately $48.83 per share. outstanding vested options are likely to be exercised if the market price of our common stock exceeds the applicable exercise price. in addition, we may issue additional common stock or restricted securities in the future as part of our financing activities or business development activities and any such issuances may have a dilutive effect on existing shareholders. sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market, or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. in addition, the issuance of restricted common stock or common stock upon exercise of any outstanding options would be dilutive, and may cause the market price for a share of our common stock to decline. outstanding indebtedness may make it more difficult to obtain additional financing or reduce our flexibility to act in our best interests. we are obligated to repay an aggregate of $155.0 million for our secured notes due 2012, or the 2012 notes, no later than october 31, 2012, and an aggregate of $400.0 million for our 2015 notes no later than october 1, 2015. we also are obligated to make semi-annual interest payments on the outstanding principal amount of the 2015 notes. we may issue additional convertible debt or incur other types of indebtedness in the future. the level of our indebtedness could affect us by: making it more difficult to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; constraining our ability to react quickly in an unfavorable economic climate or to changes in our business or the pharmaceutical industry; or requiring the dedication of substantial cash to service the repayment of any outstanding debt, including periodic interest payments, thereby reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes. 43 table of contents if we acquire or license technologies, resources or drug candidates, we will incur a variety of costs and may never realize benefits from the transaction. if appropriate opportunities become available, we might attempt to license or acquire technologies, resources and drugs or drug candidates, including potentially complimentary hcv therapies. even if we complete a license or other transaction, we might never realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction or we may incur impairment charges related to assets acquired in any such transaction. future licenses or acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, the creation of contingent liabilities, impairment expenses related to goodwill, and impairment or amortization expenses related to other intangible assets, which could harm our financial condition. our drug development efforts are data-driven and therefore potentially subject to abrupt changes in expected outcomes. small molecule drug discovery and development involve, initially, the identification of chemical compounds that may have promise as treatments for specific diseases. once identified as drug candidates, compounds are subjected to years of testing in a laboratory setting, in animals and in humans. our ultimate objective is to determine whether the drug candidates have physical characteristics, both intrinsically and in animal and human systems, and a toxicological profile, that are compatible with clinical and commercial success in the treatment of the disease being targeted. throughout this process, experiments are conducted and data are gathered that could reinforce a decision to move to the next step in the investigation process for a particular drug candidate, could result in uncertainty over the proper course to pursue or could result in the termination of further drug development efforts with respect to the compound being evaluated. we monitor the results of our discovery research and our nonclinical studies and clinical trials and regularly evaluate and re-evaluate our portfolio investments with the objective of balancing risk and potential return in view of new data and scientific, business and commercial insights. this process can result in relatively abrupt changes in focus and priority as new information comes to light and we gain additional insights into ongoing programs and potential new programs. we may not have the resources to develop and commercialize all the drug candidates for which we have rights, and we may not be able to attract collaborators for the development and commercialization of these drug candidates. as part of our ongoing strategy, we may seek additional collaborative arrangements. we have a number of research programs and early-stage and mid-stage clinical development programs. depending on how these programs progress, we may not have the funding and/or the personnel to continue the development and commercialization of all of these programs internally. we will need to expand our internal capabilities and/or enter into new arrangements with third parties to sell and market any of our drug candidates, other than telaprevir, if the are approval for sale. at any time, we may make the determination that in order to continue development of a drug candidate or program or successfully commercialize a future approved drug we need to identify a collaborator. potentially, and depending on the circumstances, we may desire that a collaborator either agree to fund portions of a drug development program led by us, or agree to provide all the funding and directly lead the development and commercialization of a program. no assurance can be given that any efforts we make to seek additional collaborative arrangements will be successfully completed on a timely basis or at all. if we are unable to enter into acceptable collaborative relationships, one or more of our development programs could be delayed or terminated, and any future drug may not be commercially successful and the possibility of our receiving a return on our investment in the program could be impaired. 44 table of contents risks associated with our international business relationships could materially adversely affect our business. we have manufacturing, collaborative and clinical trial relationships, and we and our collaborators are seeking approval for our drug candidates, outside the united states. in addition, we expect that if telaprevir is approved for commercial sale, a significant portion of our commercial supply chain, including sourcing of raw materials and manufacturing, will be located in china, japan and the european union. we are planning to expand our operations in canada in order to market telaprevir, if approved, in that country, and may seek to expand our commercial operations in europe in order to market vx-770 internationally, if approved. consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to risks related to operating in foreign countries. risks associated with conducting operations in foreign countries include: differing regulatory requirements for drug approvals in foreign countries; unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements; economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees living or traveling abroad; foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes; foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses or reduced revenues, and other obligations incident to doing business or operating a subsidiary in another country; workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the united states; production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism. these and other risks associated with our international operations could materially adversely affect our business. if we fail to expand our human resources, and manage our growth effectively, our business may suffer. we expect we may require significant additional investment in personnel, management systems and resources. recently we have built out the commercial organization that will be responsible for the commercial launch of telaprevir in the united states, if it receives marketing approval. the number of our employees increased by 18% in 2010 and 6% in 2009, and we expect to experience additional growth in 2011. because our drug discovery and development activities are highly technical in nature, we require the services of highly qualified and trained scientists who have the skills necessary to conduct these activities. in addition, we need to attract and retain employees with experience in these fields. we face intense competition for our personnel from our competitors, our collaborators and other companies throughout our industry. moreover, the growth of local biotechnology companies and the expansion of major pharmaceutical companies into the boston area have increased competition for the available pool of skilled employees, especially in technical fields, and the high cost of living in the boston and san diego areas makes it difficult to attract employees from other parts of the country to these areas. our ability to commercialize our drug candidates, and achieve our research and development objectives, depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands and expand our internal organization to accommodate additional anticipated growth. if we are unable to hire qualified personnel or manage our growth effectively, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. 45 table of contents the loss of the services of key employees or the failure to effectively integrate key employees could negatively impact our business and future growth. our future success will depend in large part on our ability to retain the services of our key scientific and management personnel and to integrate new scientific and management personnel into our business. as we expand our capabilities in anticipation of the possible launch of commercial products, a loss of key personnel or a failure to properly integrate new personnel could be disruptive. we have entered into employment agreements with some individuals and provide compensation-related benefits to all of our key employees that vest over time and therefore induce them to remain with us. however, the employment agreements can be terminated by the employee on relatively short notice. the value to employees of stock-related benefits that vest over time such as options and restricted stock will be significantly affected by movements in our stock price that we can not control, and may at any point in time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. a failure to retain, as well as hire, train and effectively integrate into our organization a sufficient number of qualified scientists, professionals, sales personnel and senior management would negatively affect our business and our ability to grow our business. if our patents do not protect our drugs, or our drugs infringe third-party patents, we could be subject to litigation and substantial liabilities. we have numerous issued patents and patent applications pending in the united states, as well as foreign counterparts in other countries. our success will depend, in significant part, on our ability to obtain and maintain united states and foreign patent protection for our drugs, their uses and our processes, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. in particular, we believe that composition-of-matter claims are generally the most significant patent claims for companies in our segment of the pharmaceutical industry that focus on small molecule drug candidates that are new chemical compounds. while we have patents or patent applications with composition-of-matter claims for each of our more advanced clinical drug candidates, only a portion of these patents have been granted at this time. we can not be certain that any patents will issue from our patent applications or, even if patents issue or have issued, that the issued claims will provide us with any significant protection against competitive products or otherwise be valuable commercially. legal standards relating to the validity of patents and the proper scope of their claims in the pharmaceutical field are still evolving, and there is no consistent law or policy regarding the valid breadth of claims in biopharmaceutical patents or the effect of prior art on them. if we are not able to obtain adequate patent protection, our ability to prevent competitors from making, using and selling similar drugs will be limited. furthermore, our activities may infringe the claims of patents held by third parties. defense and prosecution of infringement or other intellectual property claims, as well as participation in other inter-party proceedings, can be expensive and time-consuming, regardless of whether or not the outcome is favorable to us. if the outcome of any such litigation or proceeding were adverse, we could be subject to significant liabilities to third parties, could be required to obtain licenses from third parties or could be required to cease sales of affected drugs, any of which outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our business. our business has a substantial risk of product liability claims. if we are unable to obtain appropriate levels of insurance, a product liability claim could adversely affect our business. our business exposes us to significant potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, clinical testing, manufacturing and sales and marketing of human therapeutic products. we have clinical trial insurance and will seek to obtain product liability insurance prior to the sales and marketing of any of our drug candidates. however, our insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. furthermore, clinical trial and product liability insurance is becoming 46 table of contents increasingly expensive. as a result, we may be unable to maintain current amounts of insurance coverage or obtain additional or sufficient insurance at a reasonable cost to protect against losses that could have a material adverse effect on us. if a claim is brought against us, we might be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as uncovered damages awards resulting from a claim brought successfully against us. furthermore, whether or not we are ultimately successful in defending any such claims, we might be required to direct significant financial and managerial resources to such defense, and adverse publicity is likely to result. if we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected. our research and development efforts involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials can not be eliminated. if an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. we also are subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. although we maintain workers' compensation insurance to cover us for costs we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. due to the small amount of hazardous materials that we generate, we have determined that the cost to secure insurance coverage for environmental liability and toxic tort claims far exceeds the benefits. accordingly, we do not maintain any insurance to cover pollution conditions or other extraordinary or unanticipated events relating to our use and disposal of hazardous materials. additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. we may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations. we have adopted anti-takeover provisions and are subject to massachusetts corporate laws that may frustrate any attempt to remove or replace our current management or effectuate a business combination involving vertex. our corporate charter and by-law provisions, massachusetts state laws and our shareholder rights plan may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change of control of vertex that might be beneficial to us or our security holders. our charter provides for staggered terms for the members of the board of directors. our by-laws grant the directors a right to adjourn annual meetings of shareholders, and certain provisions of our by-laws may be amended only with an 80% shareholder vote. pursuant to our shareholder rights plan, each share of common stock has an associated preferred share purchase right. the rights will not trade separately from the common stock until, and are exercisable only upon, the acquisition or the potential acquisition through tender offer by a person or group of 15% or more of the outstanding common stock. we may issue shares of any class or series of preferred stock in the future without shareholder approval and upon such terms as our board of directors may determine. the rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any class or series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. massachusetts state law prohibits us from engaging in specified business combinations, unless the combination is approved or consummated in a prescribed manner, and prohibits voting by any shareholder who acquires 20% or more of our voting stock without shareholder approval. as a result, shareholders or other parties may find it more difficult to remove or replace our current management. 47 table of contents our stock price may fluctuate based on factors beyond our control. market prices for securities of companies such as ours are highly volatile. from january 1, 2009 to december 31, 2010, our common stock traded between $25.94 and $44.24 per share. the market for our stock, like that of other companies in the biotechnology field, has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to our operating performance. the future market price of our securities could be significantly and adversely affected by factors such as: announcements of fda actions with respect to regulatory filings for our drug candidates or those of our competitors or of results of clinical trials or nonclinical studies relating to our drug candidates or those of our competitors; announcements of financial results and other operating performance measures, including, if we obtain approval for telaprevir, product revenues during the initial period after telaprevir's commercial launch, or capital structuring or financing activities; technological innovations or the introduction of new drugs by our competitors; government regulatory action; public concern as to the safety of drugs developed by others; developments in patent or other intellectual property rights or announcements relating to these matters; developments in domestic and international governmental policy or regulation, for example relating to intellectual property rights; developments relating specifically to other companies and market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks or stocks in general; and general worldwide or national economic, political and capital market conditions. special note regarding forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k and, in particular, the description of our business set forth in item 1, the risk factors set forth in this item 1a and our management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations set forth in item 7 contain or incorporate a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding: our expectations regarding clinical trials, development timelines and regulatory authority filings and submissions for telaprevir, vx-770, vx-222, vx-809, vx-509, vx-765, including our expectations regarding regulatory authorities' timelines for review of our nda submission for telaprevir in the united states, our new drug submission for telaprevir in canada, and janssen's maa for telaprevir in the european union, and the possibility that we could submit an nda and an maa for vx-770 in the second half of 2011; our belief that if we are successful in obtaining approval for telaprevir by the may 23, 2011 target date for the fda to complete its review, we would be able to begin marketing telaprevir in the united states in mid-2011; our statements regarding the possibility that could begin generating earnings as a cashflow positive company in 2012; our ability to successfully market telaprevir and vx-770 or any of our other drug candidates if we are able to obtain regulatory approval; 48 table of contents our expectations regarding the timing and structure of clinical trials of our drug candidates, including telaprevir, vx-770, vx-222, vx-509 and vx-765 and combinations of telaprevir with vx-222 and vx-770 with vx-809, and the timing of our receipt of data from our vx-770 registration program and of data from our other clinical trials; expectations regarding the amount of, timing of and trends with respect to our revenues, costs and expenses and other gains and losses, including those related to potential product revenues and royalty revenues from sales of telaprevir, to potential milestone payments from janssen, to the intangible assets associated with the virochem acquisition and to the liabilities we recorded in connection with the september 2009 financial transactions; the data that will be generated by ongoing and planned clinical trials and the ability to use that data to support regulatory filings, including potential applications for marketing approval for vx-770; our beliefs regarding the support provided by clinical trials and preclinical and nonclinical studies of our drug candidates for further investigation, clinical trials or potential use as a treatment; the focus of our drug development efforts and our financial and management resources and our plan to continue investing in our research and development programs and to develop and commercialize selected drug candidates that emerge from those programs, alone or with third-party collaborators; the establishment, development and maintenance of collaborative relationships; potential business development activities; our ability to use our research programs to identify and develop new drug candidates to address serious diseases and significant unmet medical needs; statements regarding the letter of intent that we entered into in january 2011 with respect to the potential lease of a facility to be built in boston, massachusetts; our estimates regarding obligations associated with a lease of a facility in kendall square, cambridge, massachusetts; and our liquidity and our expectations regarding the possibility of raising additional capital. any or all of our forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k may turn out to be wrong. they can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. many factors mentioned in this annual report on form 10-k will be important in determining future results. consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. actual future results may vary materially from expected results. we also provide a cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties under "risk factors" above in this item 1a. these are factors and uncertainties that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results. other factors and uncertainties besides those listed there could also adversely affect us. without limiting the foregoing, the words "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "expects" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. there are a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control, including the factors and uncertainties set forth under "risk factors" above in this item 1a. in addition, the forward-looking statements contained herein represent our estimate only as of the date of this filing and should not be relied upon as representing our estimate as of any subsequent date. while we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim 49 table of contents any obligation to do so to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 75 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk as part of our investment portfolio, we own financial instruments that are sensitive to market risks. the investment portfolio is used to preserve our capital until it is required to fund operations, including our research and development activities. none of these market risk-sensitive instruments are held for trading purposes. we do not have derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. interest rate risk we invest our cash in a variety of financial instruments, principally securities issued by the united states government and its agencies, investment grade corporate bonds and commercial paper, and money market funds. these investments are denominated in united states dollars. all of our interest-bearing securities are subject to interest rate risk, and could decline in value if interest rates fluctuate. substantially all of our investment portfolio consists of marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to help ensure portfolio liquidity, and we have implemented guidelines limiting the term-to-maturity of our investment instruments. due to the conservative nature of these instruments, we do not believe that we have a material exposure to interest rate risk.risk factors 32 risk factors risk factors investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk, and you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below in addition to the other information included or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k. if any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer, possibly materially. in that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. risks related to commercialization of our products we depend heavily on our revenues from sales of incivek (telaprevir) in the united states, and our future revenues from incivek are uncertain. we obtained approval to sell incivek (telaprevir) in the united states in may 2011. prior to the launch of incivek we had not sold or marketed a therapeutic product. as a result, a majority of our total revenues in 2011 were attributable to sales of incivek in the united states. incivek competes with victrelis (boceprevir), a protease inhibitor that also was approved in 2011 and is being marketed by merck &amp; co., inc. we expect that, starting in late 2013, one or more additional competitive products currently in late-stage development for the treatment of hcv infection may become available. our future revenues from sales of incivek depend on numerous factors, including: the number of patients with genotype 1 hcv infection, including treatment-na&iuml;ve patients and patients who did not achieve a sustained viral response with prior treatment, who seek treatment. although the number of patients with genotype 1 hcv infection is significant, it is estimated that less than half of those patients are aware that they are infected, and many of the patients that are aware of their infection have not historically sought treatment. competition from victrelis-based treatment regimens, which compete with incivek-based treatment regimens on the basis of, among other things, efficacy, cost, breadth of approved use, side-effect profile and cost of co-therapies. competitive pressures from development-stage drug candidates, including potential all-oral, interferon-free combination therapies, which may influence some physicians and patients with hcv infection to defer treatment until these drug candidates or other treatment options become available. competition from any additional products for the treatment of hcv infection that are approved by the fda in the future. the safety profile of incivek, including whether previously unknown side-effects or increased incidence or severity of side-effects as compared to those seen during development are identified with the increased use of incivek after approval. the effectiveness of our commercial strategy for marketing incivek and our execution of that strategy, including our pricing strategy and the effectiveness of our efforts to obtain adequate third-party reimbursements. the capacity of physicians and health care providers to provide treatment to patients with hcv infection. our ability to maintain and successfully monitor commercial manufacturing arrangements for incivek with third-party manufacturers to ensure they meet our standards and those of regulatory authorities, including the fda, which extensively regulate and monitor pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities. 32 table of contents while incivek has established a competitive commercial profile, we cannot accurately predict the amount of revenues incivek will generate in future periods. if our revenues, market share and/or other indicators of market acceptance of incivek do not meet the expectations of investors or public market analysts, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. in addition, if one or more of the factors above negatively affects incivek sales, our business and financial condition could be materially harmed. janssen began marketing incivo (telaprevir) at the end of the third quarter of 2011, and we cannot predict the royalty revenues we will receive based on incivo sales by janssen in its territories. janssen obtained approval to market incivo (telaprevir) from the european commission in september 2011, and we earned $16.5 million in royalty revenues on net sales of incivo by janssen in the fourth quarter of 2011. in addition to the factors that contribute to the uncertainty of sales of incivek (telaprevir) by us in the united states discussed above, which apply equally to janssen's sales in its territory, sales in janssen's territory are dependent upon janssen's sales and marketing efforts, which we do not control and may not be able to effectively influence, and the actions and decisions of foreign regulatory authorities. while we expect our royalty revenues on net sales of incivo to increase in future periods as compared to the fourth quarter of 2011, we cannot predict the royalty revenues that we will recognize in future periods from sales of incivo by janssen or the timing of such revenues. we cannot accurately predict future revenues from kalydeco (ivacaftor), which will be dependent on, among other factors, our ability to obtain adequate reimbursement and whether or not we are able obtain additional regulatory approvals for kalydeco. we have obtained approval to market kalydeco (ivacaftor) in the united states for the treatment of patients with cf six years of age and older with the g551d mutation in the cftr gene, but have not yet obtained approval for kalydeco in any other population or jurisdiction. we believe that the total number of patients with cf who have this mutation in the united states is approximately 1,200. kalydeco was approved for marketing in january 2012, and we do not yet know how many patients with cf will receive treatment with kalydeco or the adequacy of the extent of coverage, pricing and level of reimbursement from governmental agencies and third-party payors that will be available for kalydeco. over the next several years our revenues from kalydeco also will depend on our ability to obtain regulatory approval in europe, canada and australia. we are seeking approval from the european commission to market kalydeco for the treatment of patients with cf six years of age and older with the g551d mutation in the cftr gene and with certain other mutations in the cftr gene that result in gating defects. there can be no assurance that ivacaftor will be approved by the european commission or that the european commission will not limit any such approval to patients with cf who have the g551d mutation in the cftr gene. we are planning to conduct several additional clinical trials to evaluate kalydeco as a monotherapy in additional patient populations, including patients younger than six years of age with gating mutations and patients with other mutations in the cftr gene, which may result in additional revenues if successful. these clinical trials are subject to many of the same risks and uncertainties as the clinical trials for our drug candidates. even if these clinical trials are successful, we do not expect that we would obtain approval for the use of kalydeco in additional populations until 2013 or later. 33 table of contents if our competitors bring drugs with superior product profiles to market, our drugs may not be competitive and our revenues could decline. incivek, kalydeco and any drugs we develop in the future may not be able to compete effectively with drugs that are currently on the market or new drugs that may be developed by others. there are many other companies developing drugs for the same indications that we are pursuing. in order to compete successfully in these areas, we must demonstrate improved safety, efficacy and/or tolerability, and ease of manufacturing, and gain and maintain market acceptance over competing drugs that may receive regulatory approval before or after our products and drug candidates, and over those that currently are marketed. many of our competitors, including major pharmaceutical companies such as merck, bristol-myers squibb, gilead, johnson &amp; johnson, novartis, pfizer, abbott, sanofi and roche, possess substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we possess. in addition to the initial competition from merck's victrelis, we are aware of a number of companies that are developing new treatments for hcv infection including hcv protease inhibitors, hcv nucleotide analogues, non-nucleoside hcv polymerase inhibitors, hcv ns5a inhibitors and advanced interferons. although drug development is a lengthy process and involves a high degree of risk, we expect that over the next several years one or more of these competitive hcv drug candidates may be approved for marketing in the united states and elsewhere in the world. as a result, the longer-term commercial prospects for incivek and vx-222, als-2200 and als-2158, if approved, will depend on, among other factors: the efficacy, safety, tolerability and other characteristics of incivek and vx-222, als-2200 and als-2158, if approved, relative to existing and future treatments for hcv infection; our ability to establish incivek and/or vx-222, als-2200 and/or als-2158, if approved, as a significant component of any approved all-oral therapy or shorter-duration therapy for the treatment of hcv infection; and the clinical data obtained and timing of marketing approvals for drug candidates being developed by our competitors, including any all-oral therapy or shorter-duration therapy for the treatment of hcv infection. it is possible that one or more competing therapies for the treatment of hcv infection could be developed with a better efficacy, safety and/or tolerability profile than our telaprevir-based treatment regimens, which would negatively affect incivek and incivo sales and could negatively affect our business and financial condition. if we discover safety issues with our products that were not known at the time of approval or if we fail to comply with continuing united states and applicable foreign regulations, commercialization efforts for our products could be negatively affected, approved products could lose their approval or sales could be suspended, and our business could be materially harmed. our products are subject to continuing regulatory oversight, including the review of additional safety information. drugs are more widely used by patients once approval has been obtained and therefore side-effects and other problems may be observed after approval that were not seen or anticipated, or were not as prevalent or severe, during pre-approval clinical trials or nonclinical studies. the subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a product could negatively affect commercial sales of the product, result in restrictions on the product or lead to the withdrawal of the product from the market. the reporting of adverse safety events involving our products or public speculation about such events could cause our stock price to decline or experience periods of volatility. if we or our collaborators fail to comply with applicable continuing regulatory requirements, we or our collaborators may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals for specific drugs, product recalls and seizures, operating restrictions and/or criminal prosecutions. in addition, the 34 table of contents manufacturers we engage to make our products and the manufacturing facilities in which our products are made are subject to periodic review and inspection by the fda and foreign regulatory authorities. if problems are identified during the review or inspection of these manufacturers or manufacturing facilities, it could result in our inability to use the facility to make our product or a determination that inventories are not safe for commercial sale. if physicians, patients and third-party payors do not accept our drugs, we may be unable to generate significant revenues in future periods. our drugs may not gain or maintain market acceptance among physicians and patients. effectively marketing incivek and kalydeco, and any of our other drug candidates, if approved, requires substantial efforts, both prior to launch and after approval. physicians may elect not to prescribe our drugs, and patients may elect not to request or take them, for a variety of reasons including: lower demonstrated efficacy, safety and/or tolerability compared to other drugs; prevalence and severity of adverse side-effects; lack of cost-effectiveness; lack of reimbursement availability from third-party payors; a decision to wait for the approval of other therapies in development that have significant perceived advantages over our applicable drug; convenience and ease of administration; other potential advantages of alternative treatment methods; and ineffective marketing and/or distribution support. if our drugs fail to achieve and maintain market acceptance, we will not be able to generate significant revenues in future periods. government and other third-party payors seek to contain costs of health care through legislative and other means. if they fail to provide coverage and adequate reimbursement rates for our products, our revenues will be harmed. in both domestic and foreign markets, our sales of products depends in part upon the availability of reimbursement from third-party payors. third-party payors include government health programs such as medicare and medicaid, managed care providers, private health insurers and other organizations. governments and other third-party payors seek to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means. for example, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of therapeutic and other pharmaceutical products is subject to governmental control. in the united states, there have been, and we expect that there will continue to be, a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar governmental control. the recently enacted aca will require discounts under the medicare drug benefit program and increases the rebates paid by pharmaceutical companies on drugs covered by medicaid. in addition, the aca imposes an annual fee, which will increase annually, on sales by branded pharmaceutical manufacturers. the financial impact of these discounts, increased rebates and fees and the other provisions of the aca on our business is unclear, and there can be no assurance that our business will not be materially harmed by future implementation of the aca. in addition, third-party payors are increasingly attempting to contain health care costs by demanding price discounts or rebates and limiting both the types and variety of drugs that they will cover and the amounts that they will pay for drugs. as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our products. we might need to conduct post-marketing studies in order to demonstrate the cost-effectiveness of our drugs or any other future drugs to such payors' satisfaction. 35 table of contents such studies might require us to commit a significant amount of management's time and financial and other resources. our products might not ultimately be considered cost-effective. adequate third-party reimbursement might not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. reimbursement rates may vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on payments allowed for lower-cost products that already are reimbursed, may be incorporated into existing payments for other products or services, and may reflect budgetary constraints and/or imperfections in medicare or medicaid data used to calculate these rates. net prices for products are reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government health care programs and privately-negotiated discounts. while we have implemented policies in an effort to comply with mandated reimbursement rates, the united states federal government, state governments and private payors frequently pursue actions against pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies alleging that the companies have overstated prices in order to inflate reimbursement rates. any such action could adversely affect the pricing of and the commercial success of our products. any legislation or regulatory changes or relaxation of laws that restrict imports of drugs from other countries also could reduce the net price we receive for our products. if we market any of our products in a manner that violates federal or state health care laws, including fraud and abuse laws, laws prohibiting off-label promotion, disclosure laws or other similar laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. we are subject to health care "fraud and abuse" laws, such as the federal false claims act and the anti-kickback provisions of the federal social security act, laws prohibiting off-label product promotion and other similar state and federal laws and regulations. while we have a corporate compliance program designed to actively identify, prevent and mitigate risk through the implementation of compliance policies and systems and the promotion of a culture of compliance, if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws our business could be materially harmed. the federal anti-kickback law prohibits knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the ordering, furnishing, arranging for or recommending of an item or service that is reimbursable, in whole or in part, by a federal health care program, such as medicare or medicaid. the federal statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, patients, purchasers and formulary managers on the other hand, and therefore constrains our marketing practices and our various service arrangements with physicians, including physicians who make clinical decisions to use our products. although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchasing, or recommending may be subject to scrutiny or penalty if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in promotion for uses that the fda has not approved, known as "off-label" uses, that caused claims to be submitted to medicaid for non-covered off-label uses; and submitting inflated "best price" information to the medicaid rebate program. 36 table of contents although physicians are permitted to, based on their medical judgment, prescribe products for indications other than those cleared or approved by the fda, manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products for such off-label uses. we market incivek for adults with genotype 1 hcv infection and kalydeco for patients six years of age or older with cf who have the g551d mutation in the cftr gene, and provide promotional materials and training programs to physicians regarding the use of incivek and kalydeco in these patient populations. if the fda determines that our promotional materials, training or other activities constitute off-label promotion, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or other activities or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. it also is possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they believe that the alleged improper promotion led to the submission and payment of claims for an off-label use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. even if it is later determined we were not in violation of these laws, we may be faced with negative publicity, incur significant expenses defending our actions and have to divert significant management resources from other matters. also applicable to some of our practices is hipaa and its implementing regulations, which created federal criminal laws that prohibit executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program or making false statements relating to health care matters and which also imposes certain regulatory and contractual requirements regarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. the majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. in addition, certain states have laws governing the privacy of certain health information, which may differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by hipaa, complicating compliance efforts. sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a pharmaceutical manufacturer's products from reimbursement under government programs and criminal fines. even if we are not determined to have violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could harm our business. in recent years, several states and localities, including california, the district of columbia, maine, minnesota, nevada, new mexico, vermont and west virginia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, hcp payments and other activities. similar legislation is being considered in other states. additionally, as part of the aca, the federal government has enacted the physician payment sunshine provisions. the physician payment sunshine provisions will require pharmaceutical manufacturers to publicly report gifts and payments made to physicians and teaching hospitals. on december 14, 2011, cms published a proposed rule and postponed the statute's january 1, 2012 start date for pharmaceutical manufacturers to collect data to be used in fulfilling their reporting requirements. when the final rules are issued, many of these requirements will be new and uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements will be significant. if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement action, fines and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity. the aca also includes various provisions designed to strengthen significantly fraud and abuse enforcement, such as increased funding for enforcement efforts and the lowering of the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback statute and criminal health care fraud statute such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. 37 table of contents if our past or present operations are found to be in violation of any such laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from federal health care programs and/or the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. the risk of our being found in violation of these laws is increased by the fact that many of them have not been fully interpreted by the regulatory authorities or the courts, and their provisions are subject to a variety of interpretations. any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. the sales and marketing practices of our industry have been the subject of increased scrutiny from federal and state government agencies, and we believe that this trend will continue. we have in place policies to govern how we may retain health care professionals as consultants that reflect the current climate on this issue and are providing training on these policies. any action against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against them, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management's attention from the operation of our business. future health care reform measures could hinder or prevent commercial success of our drugs and drug candidates. the united states federal government and other governments have shown significant interest in pursuing health care reform. any government-adopted reform measures could adversely affect the pricing of health care products, including our approved products and/or any future drug candidates approved for sale. the continuing efforts of governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors for health care products to contain or reduce health care costs may adversely affect our ability to set prices we believe are fair for our products or any drugs we may develop and commercialize. new laws, regulations and judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations and decisions, relating to health care availability, methods of delivery or payment for drugs, or sales, marketing or pricing, may limit our potential revenues, and we may need to revise our research and development or commercialization programs. the pricing and reimbursement environment may change in the future and become more challenging for any of several reasons, including policies advanced by the u.s. government, new health care legislation or fiscal challenges faced by government health administration authorities. specifically, in the united states and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals and initiatives to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell products. some of these proposed and implemented reforms could result in reduced reimbursement rates for our current or future products, which would adversely affect our business, operations and financial results. as discussed above, the recently enacted aca may have far reaching consequences for biopharmaceutical companies like us. as a result of this new legislation, substantial changes could be made to the current system for paying for health care in the united states, including changes made in order to extend medical benefits to those who currently lack health insurance coverage. extending coverage to a large population could substantially change the structure of the health insurance system and the methodology for reimbursement. if reimbursement for our products is substantially less than we expect in the future, or rebate obligations associated with them are substantially increased, our business could be materially and adversely affected. further federal and state proposals and health care reforms in and outside of the united states could limit the prices that can be charged for our products and may further limit our commercial opportunity. our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the aca, by the medicare prescription drug coverage legislation, by the possible effect of such current or future legislation on amounts that private insurers will pay and by other health care reforms that may be enacted or adopted in the future. 38 table of contents risks related to development, clinical testing and regulation of our products and drug candidates our drug candidates remain subject to clinical testing and regulatory approval. if we are unable to successfully develop and test our drug candidates, we will not be successful. in addition to the successful commercialization of incivek and kalydeco, our business depends upon the successful development and commercialization of additional drug candidates. our drug candidates are in various stages of development and must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before they can be approved by the fda or comparable foreign regulatory authorities for sale. to satisfy these standards, we must allocate resources among our various development programs and must engage in expensive and lengthy testing of our drug candidates. discovery and development efforts for new pharmaceutical products, including new combination therapies, are resource-intensive and may take 10 to 15 years or longer for each drug candidate. despite our efforts, our drug candidates may not: offer therapeutic or other improvement over existing competitive drugs; be proven safe and effective in clinical trials; meet applicable regulatory standards; be capable of being produced in commercial quantities at acceptable costs; or if approved for commercial sale, be successfully marketed as pharmaceutical products. we have ongoing or planned phase 2 clinical trials for a number of our drug candidates. the strength of our company's pipeline of drug candidates, including drug candidates that could potentially be complementary to incivek (telaprevir) and/or kalydeco (ivacaftor), will depend in large part upon the outcomes of these phase 2 clinical trials. findings, including toxicology findings, in nonclinical studies conducted concurrently with clinical trials as well as results of our clinical trials could lead to abrupt changes in our development activities, including the possible cessation of development activities associated with a particular drug candidate or program. furthermore, results from our clinical trials may not meet the level of statistical significance required by the fda or other regulatory authorities for approval of a drug candidate. we and many other companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in later-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in earlier-stage clinical trials. accordingly, the results from the completed preclinical studies and clinical trials may not be replicated in later clinical trials, and ongoing clinical trials for our drug candidates may not be predictive of the results we may obtain in later-stage clinical trials or of the likelihood of approval of a drug candidate for commercial sale. in addition, from time to time we and our competitors report interim data from our clinical trials, including, with respect to our hcv drug candidates, data regarding patients' hcv rna levels during treatment or at the completion of treatment. interim data from a clinical trial, and in particular interim on-treatment data, may not be predictive of final results from the clinical trial. if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval, we will be unable to commercialize our drug candidates. our drug candidates are subject to extensive governmental regulations relating to their development, clinical evaluation, manufacturing and commercialization. rigorous nonclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory approval process are required in the united states and in most other countries prior to the commercial sale of drug candidates. satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time-consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. it is possible that none of the drug candidates we are developing will be approved for marketing. 39 table of contents the time required to complete clinical trials and to satisfy the fda and other countries' regulatory review processes is uncertain and typically takes many years. our analysis of data obtained from nonclinical and clinical activities is subject to confirmation and interpretation by regulatory authorities, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. we also may encounter unanticipated delays or increased costs due to government regulation from future legislation or administrative action or changes in governmental policy during the period of drug development, clinical trials and governmental regulatory review. any failure to obtain regulatory approvals for a drug candidate would prevent us from commercializing that drug candidate. any delay in obtaining required regulatory approvals could materially adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize a drug candidate. furthermore, any regulatory approval to market a drug may be subject to limitations that we do not expect on the indicated uses for which we may market the drug. any such limitations could reduce the size of the market for the drug. we also are subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement. the foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with the fda approval process described above, as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of foreign requirements. approval by the fda does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities outside the united states and approval by a foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by the fda. in addition, the fda may not favorably consider data from clinical trials conducted in foreign jurisdictions. foreign jurisdictions have different approval procedures than those required by the fda and may impose additional testing requirements for our drug candidates. if clinical trials for a drug candidate are prolonged or delayed, our development timelines for the affected drug candidate could be extended, our costs to develop the drug candidate could increase and the competitive position of the drug candidate could be adversely affected. we cannot predict whether or not we will encounter problems with any of our completed, ongoing or planned clinical trials that will cause us or regulatory authorities to delay or suspend clinical trials, or delay the analysis of data from our completed or ongoing clinical trials. any of the following could delay the clinical development of our drug candidates: ongoing discussions with the fda or comparable foreign authorities regarding the scope or design of our clinical trials and the number of clinical trials we must conduct; delays in enrolling volunteers or patients into clinical trials, including as a result of low numbers of patients that meet the eligibility criteria for the trial; a lower than anticipated retention rate of volunteers or patients in clinical trials; the need to repeat clinical trials as a result of inconclusive results, unforeseen complications in testing or clinical investigator error; inadequate supply or deficient quality of drug candidate materials or other materials necessary for the conduct of our clinical trials; unfavorable fda or foreign regulatory authority inspection and review of a manufacturing facility for a drug candidate or its relevant manufacturing records or a clinical trial site or records of any clinical or preclinical investigation; unfavorable scientific results from clinical trials of our drug candidates; serious and unexpected drug-related side-effects experienced by participants in our clinical trials; 40 table of contents favorable results in testing of our competitors' drug candidates, or fda or foreign regulatory authority approval of our competitors' drug candidates; or action by the fda or a foreign regulatory authority to place a clinical hold on a trial. our ability to enroll patients in our clinical trials in sufficient numbers and on a timely basis is subject to a number of factors, including the size of the patient population, the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the availability of effective treatments for the relevant disease, the number of other clinical trials ongoing and competing for patients in the same indication and the eligibility criteria for the clinical trial. in addition, patients may drop out of our clinical trials or may be lost to follow-up medical evaluation after treatment ends, and this could impair the validity or statistical significance of the trials. delays in patient enrollment or unforeseen drop-out rates may result in increased costs and longer development times. we, our collaborators, the fda or other applicable regulatory authorities may suspend clinical trials of a drug candidate at any time if we or they believe the healthy volunteers or patients participating in such clinical trials are being exposed to unacceptable health risks or for other reasons. any such suspension could materially adversely affect the development of a particular drug candidate and our business. we may not successfully develop vx-222 and/or either of the hcv nucleotide analogues we license from alios and, as a result, we could be subject to significant impairment charges in future periods. in march 2009, we acquired virochem pharma inc., or virochem, for $100.0 million in cash and 10.7 million shares of our common stock. we acquired virochem primarily in order to secure rights to two non-nucleoside hcv polymerase inhibitors, vx-222 and vx-759, as part of our strategy to pursue drug candidates that could potentially be developed in combination with incivek and/or our earlier-stage drug candidates. at the time of acquisition, we allocated $525.9 million to intangible assets related to the in-process research and development associated with the virochem drug candidates. in the third quarter of 2011, we determined that the fair value of vx-759 was zero dollars, which resulted in a $105.8 million impairment charge in the third quarter of 2011. in 2011, we licensed two hcv nucleotide analogues, als-2200 and als-2158, from alios and recorded $250.6 million as an intangible asset on our consolidated balance sheet. as of december 31, 2011, our consolidated balance sheet included intangible assets of $412.9 million related to vx-222 and $250.6 million related to als-2200 and als-2158. while we believe the data from the clinical trials and nonclinical studies to date support the continued development of vx-222, als-2200 and als-2158 for the treatment of hcv infection, there are numerous reasons why we may not be able to successfully develop a combination therapy for the treatment of hcv infection that includes vx-222, als-2200, als-2158 or a combination of any of them, including: data from clinical trials involving compounds evaluated separately may not predict possible outcomes, such as unforeseen drug interactions, from compounds dosed in combination, which could negatively affect the efficacy and safety profile of the combination therapy; positive results in small clinical trials and nonclinical studies may not be predictive of results in clinical trials involving large numbers of patients; and favorable results of testing or earlier fda or foreign regulatory approval of competitors' products with a better product profile. there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop vx-222, als-2200 or als-2158 alone or in combination, and if we do not successfully develop these drug candidates we will incur additional impairment charges in future periods related to vx-222 or the hcv nucleotide 41 table of contents analogues licensed from alios. if we incur a significant impairment charge, the value of our common stock could decrease. if our processes and systems are not compliant with regulatory requirements, we could be subject to restrictions on marketing our drugs or could be delayed in submitting regulatory filings seeking approvals for our drug candidates. we have a number of regulated processes and systems that are required to obtain and maintain regulatory approval for our drugs and drug candidates. these processes and systems are subject to continual review and periodic inspection by the fda and other regulatory bodies. if compliance issues are identified at any point in the development and approval process, we may experience delays in filing for regulatory approval for our drug candidates, or delays in obtaining regulatory approval after filing. any later discovery of previously unknown problems or safety issues with approved drugs or manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in restrictions on such drugs or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of drugs from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal penalties or a refusal by the fda and/or other regulatory bodies to approve pending applications for marketing approval of new drugs or supplements to approved applications, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we are a party to agreements that transfer responsibility for complying with specified regulatory requirements, such as filing and maintenance of marketing authorizations and safety reporting or compliance with manufacturing requirements, to our collaborators and third-party manufacturers. if our collaborators or third-party manufacturers do not fulfill these regulatory obligations, any drugs for which we or they obtain approval may be subject to later restrictions on manufacturing or sale, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. risks related to collaborators, manufacturing and reliance on third parties we depend on our collaborators to work with us to develop, manufacture and commercialize our products and some of our drug candidates. we have granted development and commercialization rights for telaprevir to janssen (worldwide other than north america and far east) and to mitsubishi tanabe (far east). we are entitled to royalties from any sales of incivo (telaprevir) in janssen's territories. the success of the commercialization of incivo in janssen's territories is dependent upon janssen's sales and marketing efforts, which we do not control and may not be able to effectively influence. if janssen does not effectively commercialize incivo, our anticipated cash flows from royalties on net sales of incivo would be materially harmed. we also in-license als-2200 and als-2158 from alios and any loss of this license could materially harm our efforts to develop an all-oral, interferon-free treatment regimen for hcv infection. the risks that we face in connection with these existing and any future collaborations include the following: our collaborators may change the focus of their development and commercialization efforts or may have insufficient resources to effectively develop our drug candidates. pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies historically have re-evaluated their development and commercialization priorities following mergers and consolidations, which have been common in recent years in these industries. the ability of some of our products and drug candidates to reach their potential could be limited if collaborators decrease or fail to increase development or commercialization efforts related to those products or drug candidates. any future collaboration agreements may have the effect of limiting the areas of research and development that we may pursue, either alone or in collaboration with third parties. 42 table of contents collaborators may develop and commercialize, either alone or with others, drugs that are similar to or competitive with the drugs or drug candidates that are the subject of their collaborations with us. for example, janssen is evaluating a potentially competitive hcv protease inhibitor in phase 3 clinical trials, which could increase the likelihood that janssen would terminate our collaboration or apply fewer resources to the commercialization of incivo. our collaboration agreements are subject to termination under various circumstances, including, as in the case of our agreement with janssen, termination without cause. any such termination by janssen could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and/or disrupt the commercial sale of incivo in janssen's territories. we depend on third-party manufacturers, including sole source suppliers, to manufacture our products and the materials we require for our clinical trials. we may not be able to maintain these relationships and could experience supply disruptions outside of our control. we rely on a worldwide network of third-party manufacturers to manufacture and distribute incivek (telaprevir) and kalydeco (ivacaftor) for commercial sale and post-approval clinical trials, and our drug candidates for clinical trials. as a result of our reliance on these third-party manufacturers and suppliers, including sole source suppliers of certain components of our products and drug candidates, we could be subject to significant supply disruptions outside of our control. our supply chain for sourcing raw materials and manufacturing drug product ready for distribution is a multi-step international endeavor. third-party contract manufacturers, including some in china, supply us with raw materials, and contract manufacturers in the european union and the united states convert these raw materials into drug substance and convert the drug substance into final dosage form. establishing and managing this global supply chain requires a significant financial commitment and the creation and maintenance of numerous third-party contractual relationships. although we attempt to effectively manage the business relationships with companies in our supply chain, we do not have control over their operations. we require a supply of incivek for sale in north america. we believe there are multiple third parties capable of providing most of the materials and services we need in order to manufacture and distribute incivek. it is also possible that supply of materials that can not be second-sourced can be managed with inventory planning. if we underestimate demand, our manufacturing capacity through third-party manufacturers may not be sufficient. also, while we believe we can effectively forecast demand for incivek, we have limited flexibility to adjust our supply in response to changes in demand, due to the significant lead times required to manufacture incivek. we require a supply of kalydeco in the united states, and we will require a supply of ivacaftor for sale in international markets if we obtain marketing approvals outside of the united states. we are in the process of establishing secondary sources for our kalydeco supply needs. holders of market exclusivity for orphan drugs such as kalydeco are expected to assure the availability of sufficient quantities of their orphan drugs to meet the needs of patients. supply disruptions may result from a number of factors, including shortages in product raw materials, labor or technical difficulties, regulatory inspections or restrictions, shipping or customs delays or any other performance failure by any third-party manufacturer on which we rely. any supply disruptions could disrupt sales of our products and/or the timing of our clinical trials. furthermore, we may be required to modify our production methods to permit us to economically manufacture our drugs for sale and our drug candidates for clinical trials. these modifications may require us to re-evaluate our resources and the resources of our third-party manufacturers, which could result in abrupt changes in our production methods and supplies. in the course of providing its services, a contract manufacturer may develop process technology related to the manufacture of our products or drug candidates that the manufacturer owns, either independently or jointly with us. this would increase our reliance on that manufacturer or require us to 43 table of contents obtain a license from that manufacturer in order to have our products or drug candidates manufactured by other suppliers utilizing the same process. we may not be able to attract collaborators for the development and commercialization of our drug candidates. as part of our ongoing strategy, we may seek additional collaborative arrangements. we have a number of research programs and early-stage and mid-stage clinical development programs. at any time, we may determine that in order to continue development of a drug candidate or program or successfully commercialize a drug we need to identify a collaborator. potentially, and depending on the circumstances, we may desire that a collaborator either agree to fund portions of a drug development program led by us, or agree to provide all the funding and directly lead the development and commercialization of a program. no assurance can be given that any efforts we make to seek additional collaborative arrangements will be successfully completed on a timely basis or at all. if we are unable to enter into acceptable collaborative relationships, one or more of our development programs could be delayed or terminated and the possibility of our receiving a return on our investment in the program could be impaired. we rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such trials or regulatory requirements. we rely on third parties such as contract research organizations to help manage our clinical trial process and on medical institutions and clinical investigators to enroll qualified patients and conduct our clinical trials. our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. accordingly, these third-party contractors may not complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our trial design. if these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may be required to replace them. although we believe that there are a number of other third-party contractors we could engage to continue these activities, it may result in a delay of the affected trial. if clinical trials are not conducted in accordance with our contractual expectations or regulatory requirements, action by regulatory authorities might significantly and adversely affect the conduct or progress of these trials or in specific circumstances might result in a requirement that a trial be redone. accordingly, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize our drug candidates could be delayed. risks related to intellectual property if our patents do not protect our drugs, or our drugs infringe third-party patents, we could be subject to litigation and substantial liabilities. we have numerous issued patents and patent applications pending in the united states, as well as counterparts in other countries. our success will depend, in significant part, on our ability to obtain and maintain united states and foreign patent protection for our drugs, their uses and our processes, to preserve our trade secrets and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. in particular, we believe that composition-of-matter claims are the most significant patent claims for companies in our segment of the pharmaceutical industry that focus on small molecule drug candidates that are new chemical compounds. while we have patents or patent applications with composition-of-matter claims for each of our products and clinical drug candidates, only a portion of these patents have been granted. we cannot be certain that any patents will issue from our patent applications or, even if patents issue or have issued, that the issued claims will provide us with any significant protection against competitive products or otherwise be valuable commercially. due to evolving legal standards relating to the patentability, validity and enforceability of patents covering pharmaceutical inventions and the scope of claims made under these patents, our ability to 44 table of contents maintain, obtain and enforce patents is uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions. u.s. and foreign patent applications typically are maintained in confidence for a period of time after they initially are filed with the applicable patent office. similarly, publication of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind actual discoveries. consequently, we cannot be certain that we or our licensors were the first to invent, or the first to file patent applications on, our products or drug candidates or their use. if a third party also has filed a u.s. patent application relating to our products or drug candidates or a similar invention, we may have to participate in interference proceedings to determine priority of invention and could lose our patent position. furthermore, we may not have identified all u.s. and foreign patents or published applications that affect our business by blocking our ability to commercialize our drugs or drug candidates. our patents may be challenged by third parties, resulting in the patent being deemed invalid, unenforceable or narrowed in scope, or the third party may circumvent any such issued patents. also, our pending patent applications may not issue, and we may not receive any additional patents. our patents might not contain claims that are sufficiently broad to prevent others from utilizing our technologies. for instance, the issued patents relating to our products or drug candidates may be limited to a particular molecule or molecules and may not cover similar molecules that have similar clinical properties. consequently, our competitors may independently develop competing products that do not infringe our patents or other intellectual property. the laws of many foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the united states and many companies have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. if we encounter such difficulties in protecting or are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions, our business could be substantially harmed. because of the extensive time required for development, testing and regulatory review of a drug candidate, it is possible that, before any of our drug candidates can be commercialized, any related patent may expire or remain in force for only a short period following commercialization of our drug candidates, thereby reducing any advantages of the patent. to the extent our drug candidates are not commercialized significantly ahead of the expiration date of any applicable patent, or to the extent we have no other patent protection on such drug candidates, those drug candidates would not be protected by patents, and we would then rely solely on other forms of exclusivity, such as regulatory exclusivity provided by the fdca. risks related to our operations our business has a substantial risk of product liability claims. if we are unable to obtain appropriate levels of insurance, product liability claims could adversely affect our business. our business exposes us to significant potential product liability risks that are inherent in the development, clinical testing, manufacturing and sales and marketing of human therapeutic products. we have product liability insurance and clinical trial insurance in amounts that we believe are adequate to cover this risk. however, our insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. if a claim is brought against us, we might be required to pay legal and other expenses to defend the claim, as well as pay uncovered damages awards resulting from a claim brought successfully against us and these damages could be significant and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. furthermore, whether or not we are ultimately successful in defending any such claims, we might be required to direct significant financial and managerial resources to such defense, and adverse publicity is likely to result. 45 table of contents risks associated with operating in foreign countries could materially adversely affect our business. we have expanded our operations in canada in order to market incivek (telaprevir) and ivacaftor, if approved, in that country, and in europe in order to market ivacaftor internationally, if approved. a significant portion of our commercial supply chain, including sourcing of raw materials and manufacturing, is located in china, japan and the european union. consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to risks related to operating in foreign countries. risks associated with conducting operations in foreign countries include: differing regulatory requirements for drug approvals and regulation of approved drugs in foreign countries; unexpected changes in tariffs, trade barriers and regulatory requirements; economic weakness, including inflation, or political instability in particular foreign economies and markets; compliance with tax, employment, immigration and labor laws for employees living or traveling abroad; foreign taxes, including withholding of payroll taxes; foreign currency fluctuations, which could result in increased operating expenses or reduced revenues, and other obligations incident to doing business or operating in another country; workforce uncertainty in countries where labor unrest is more common than in the united states; production shortages resulting from any events affecting raw material supply or manufacturing capabilities abroad; and business interruptions resulting from geo-political actions, including war and terrorism. these and other risks associated with our international operations could materially adversely affect our business. in addition, our international operations are subject to regulation under united states law. for example, the foreign corrupt practices act prohibits united states companies and their representatives from offering, promising, authorizing or making payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad. in many countries, the health care professionals we regularly interact with may meet the definition of a foreign government official for purposes of the foreign corrupt practices act. we also are subject to import/export control laws. failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including the possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls, seizures, withdrawal of an approved product from the market, the imposition of civil or criminal sanctions, the prosecution of executives overseeing our international operations and corresponding bad publicity and negative perception of our company in foreign countries. if we acquire or license technologies, resources or drug candidates, we will incur a variety of costs and may never realize benefits from the transaction. if appropriate opportunities become available, we might license or acquire technologies, resources, drugs or drug candidates. we might never realize the anticipated benefits of such a transaction or we may later incur impairment charges related to assets acquired in any such transaction. in particular, due to the risks inherent in drug development, we may not successfully develop or obtain marketing approval for the drug candidates we acquire. for example, we incurred a $105.8 million impairment charge in the third quarter of 2011 in connection with vx-759, which we obtained through our 2009 acquisition of virochem. future licenses or acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of 46 table of contents equity securities, the incurrence of debt, the creation of contingent liabilities, impairment expenses related to goodwill, and impairment or amortization expenses related to other intangible assets, which could harm our financial condition. if we fail to manage our growth effectively, our business may suffer. the number of our employees increased by approximately 18% in each of 2011 and 2010, and we expect to experience additional growth in 2012. because our drug discovery and development activities are highly technical in nature, we require the services of highly qualified and trained scientists who have the skills necessary to conduct these activities. in addition, we need to attract and retain employees with experience in marketing and commercialization of medicines. we are planning to move from cambridge, massachusetts to boston, massachusetts, and this move must be managed successfully to avoid disruption to our business. while we do not expect the move to result in significant turnover, we cannot be sure that we will be able to retain all our key scientific, commercial and management employees. we face intense competition for our personnel from our competitors and other companies throughout our industry. moreover, the growth of local biotechnology companies and the expansion of major pharmaceutical companies into the boston area have increased competition for the available pool of skilled employees, especially in technical fields, and the high cost of living in the boston and san diego areas makes it difficult to attract employees from other parts of the country to these areas. our ability to commercialize our products, and achieve our research and development objectives, depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands and expand our internal organization to accommodate anticipated growth. if we are unable to hire qualified personnel or manage our growth effectively, there could be a material adverse effect on our business. the loss of the services of key employees or the failure to effectively integrate key employees could negatively affect our business and future growth. our future success will depend in large part on our ability to retain the services of our key scientific and management personnel and to integrate new scientific and management personnel into our business. a loss of key personnel or a failure to properly integrate new personnel could be disruptive. we have entered into employment agreements with some executives and provide compensation-related benefits to all of our key employees that vest over time and therefore induce them to remain with us. however, the employment agreements can be terminated by the executive on relatively short notice. the value to employees of stock-related benefits that vest over time such as options and restricted stock is significantly affected by movements in our stock price, and may at any point in time be insufficient to counteract more lucrative offers from other companies. a failure to retain, as well as hire, train and effectively integrate into our organization a sufficient number of qualified scientists, professionals, sales personnel and senior management would negatively affect our business and our ability to grow our business. if we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected. our research and development efforts involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards prescribed by state, federal and foreign regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials can not be eliminated. if an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. we also are subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. although we maintain workers' compensation insurance to cover us for costs we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of these materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. we maintain insurance to cover 47 table of contents pollution conditions or other extraordinary or unanticipated events relating to our use and disposal of hazardous materials that we believe is appropriate based on the small amount of hazardous materials we generate. additional federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting our operations may be adopted in the future. we may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate, any of these laws or regulations. risks related to holding our common stock and potential financing activities our stock price may fluctuate. market prices for securities of companies such as ours are highly volatile. from january 1, 2010 to december 31, 2011, our common stock traded between $26.50 and $58.87 per share. the market for our stock, like that of other companies in the pharmaceuticals industry, has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. the future market price of our securities could be significantly and adversely affected by factors such as: the information contained in our quarterly earnings releases, including our net product revenues, royalty revenues and operating expenses for completed periods and guidance regarding future periods; prescription data and other information disclosed by third-parties regarding our business or products; announcements of fda actions with respect to our drugs or our competitors' drugs, or regulatory filings for our drug candidates or those of our competitors or of results of clinical trials or nonclinical studies relating to our drugs, drug candidates or those of our competitors; technological innovations or the introduction of new drugs by our competitors; government regulatory action; public concern as to the safety of drugs developed by us or our competitors; developments in patent or other intellectual property rights or announcements relating to these matters; developments in domestic and international governmental policy or regulation, for example relating to intellectual property rights; developments relating specifically to other companies and market conditions for pharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks or stocks in general; business development, capital structuring or financing activities; and general worldwide or national economic, political and capital market conditions. our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuation. our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past, and we expect that they will continue to do so in the future. factors that have caused quarterly fluctuations in the past include variable amounts of product revenues and collaboration revenues, impairment charges and changes in the fair value of derivative instruments. we cannot accurately predict our future revenues from our products and our revenues from our products could vary on a quarterly basis. our revenues from our products, and in particular incivek (telaprevir), may be affected by, among other factors, seasonality and the timing of orders from our significant distributors. our quarterly results also could be significantly affected by any future impairment charges we take with respect to intangible assets and changes in the fair value of contingent milestone and royalty payments pursuant to our collaboration agreement with alios. most of our operating expenses relate to our research and development activities, do not vary directly with the amount of revenues and are difficult to adjust in the short term. as a result, if revenues in a particular quarter are below expectations, we are unlikely to proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter. 48 table of contents these examples are only illustrative and other risks, including those discussed in these "risk factors," could also cause fluctuations in our reported financial results. our operating results during any one period do not necessarily suggest the results of future periods. we expect that results from our clinical development activities and the clinical development activities of our competitors will continue to be released periodically, and may result in significant volatility in the price of our common stock. any new information regarding our products and drug candidates or competitive products or potentially competitive drug candidates, and in particular any new information regarding incivek and competitive hcv products or potentially competitive hcv drug candidates, can substantially affect investors' perceptions regarding our future prospects. we, our collaborators and our competitors periodically provide updates regarding drug development programs, typically through press releases, conference calls and presentations at medical conferences. these periodic updates often include interim or final results from clinical trials conducted by us or our competitors and/or information about our or our competitors' expectations regarding regulatory filings and submissions as well as future clinical development of our products or drug candidates, competitive products or potentially competitive drug candidates. the timing of the release of information by us regarding our drug development programs is often beyond our control and is influenced by the timing of receipt of data from our clinical trials and by the general preference among pharmaceutical companies to disclose clinical data during medical conferences. in addition, the information that we and our competitors disclose about these trials may be based on interim rather than final data that may involve interpretation difficulties and may in any event not accurately predict final results. we may need to raise additional capital that may not be available. although we do not have any plans to do so in the near term, we may in the future need to raise additional capital. any potential public offering or private placement may or may not be similar to the transactions that we have completed in the past. any debt financing may be on terms that, among other things, include conversion features that could result in dilution to our then-existing security holders and restrict our ability to pay interest and dividends although we do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. any equity financings would result in dilution to our then-existing security holders. if adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, or at all, we may be required to curtail significantly or discontinue one or more of our research, drug discovery or development programs, including clinical trials, incur significant cash exit costs, or attempt to obtain funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to certain of our technologies, drugs or drug candidates. based on many factors, including general economic conditions, additional financing may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. outstanding indebtedness may make it more difficult to obtain additional financing or reduce our flexibility to act in our best interests. we are obligated to repay an aggregate of $400.0 million for our convertible senior subordinated notes due 2015, or 2015 notes, no later than october 1, 2015. we also are obligated to make semi-annual interest payments on the outstanding principal amount of the 2015 notes. we may issue additional convertible debt or incur other types of indebtedness in the future. the level of our indebtedness could affect us by: making it more difficult to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; shortening the duration of available revolving credit because lenders may seek to avoid conflicting maturity dates; 49 table of contents constraining our ability to react quickly in an unfavorable economic climate or to changes in our business or the pharmaceutical industry; or potentially requiring the dedication of substantial amounts to service the repayment of outstanding debt, including periodic interest payments, thereby reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes. issuances of additional shares of our common stock could cause the price of our common stock to decline. as of december 31, 2011, we had 209.3 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. as of december 31, 2011, we also had outstanding options to purchase 20.9 million shares of common stock with a weighted-average exercise price of $34.23 per share and 8.2 million shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of our 2015 notes, at a conversion price of approximately $48.83 per share. outstanding vested options are likely to be exercised if the market price of our common stock exceeds the applicable exercise price, and, in the future, we expect to issue additional options and restricted stock to employees. in addition, we may issue additional common stock or restricted securities in the future as part of financing activities or business development activities and any such issuances may have a dilutive effect on existing shareholders. sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market, or the availability of such shares for sale, could adversely affect the price of our common stock. in addition, the issuance of restricted common stock or common stock upon exercise of any outstanding options would be dilutive, and may cause the market price for a share of our common stock to decline. we have adopted anti-takeover provisions and are subject to massachusetts corporate laws that may frustrate any attempt to remove or replace our current management or effectuate a business combination involving vertex. our corporate charter and by-law provisions and massachusetts state laws may discourage certain types of transactions involving an actual or potential change of control of vertex that might be beneficial to us or our security holders. our charter provides for staggered terms for the members of the board of directors. our by-laws grant the directors a right to adjourn annual meetings of shareholders, and certain provisions of our by-laws may be amended only with an 80% shareholder vote. we may issue shares of any class or series of preferred stock in the future without shareholder approval and upon such terms as our board of directors may determine. the rights of the holders of common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any class or series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. massachusetts state law prohibits us from engaging in specified business combinations, unless the combination is approved or consummated in a prescribed manner, and prohibits voting by any shareholder who acquires 20% or more of our voting stock without shareholder approval. as a result, shareholders or other parties may find it more difficult to remove or replace our current management. 50 table of contents special note regarding forward-looking statements this annual report on form 10-k and, in particular, the description of our business set forth in item 1, the risk factors set forth in this item 1a and our management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations set forth in item 7 contain or incorporate a number of forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27a of the securities act of 1933, as amended, and section 21e of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding: expectations regarding the amount of, timing of and trends with respect to our revenues, costs and expenses and other gains and losses, including those related to product revenues from sales of incivek and kalydeco and royalty revenues from net sales of incivo and to the intangible assets associated with the virochem acquisition and the alios collaboration; our expectations regarding clinical trials, development timelines and regulatory authority filings and submissions for vx-222, als-2200, als-2158, vx-809, vx-661, vx-509, vx-765, vx-787 and our other drug candidates; our ability to successfully market incivek and/or kalydeco or any of our other drug candidates if we obtain regulatory approval; our expectations regarding the timing and structure of clinical trials of our drugs and drug candidates, including incivek, kalydeco, vx-222, als-2200, als-2158, vx-809, vx-661, vx-509, vx-765 and vx-787, and the expected timing of our receipt of data from our and our collaborators' ongoing and planned clinical trials; the data that will be generated by ongoing and planned clinical trials and the ability to use that data to support regulatory filings; our beliefs regarding the support provided by clinical trials and preclinical and nonclinical studies of our drug candidates for further investigation, clinical trials or potential use as a treatment; the focus of our drug development efforts and our financial and management resources and our plan to continue investing in our research and development programs and to develop and commercialize selected drug candidates that emerge from those programs, alone or with third-party collaborators; the establishment, development and maintenance of collaborative relationships; potential business development activities; our ability to use our research programs to identify and develop new drug candidates to address serious diseases and significant unmet medical needs; our estimates regarding obligations associated with a lease of a facility in kendall square, cambridge, massachusetts; and our liquidity and our expectations regarding the possibility of raising additional capital. any or all of our forward-looking statements in this annual report on form 10-k may turn out to be wrong. they can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. many factors mentioned in this annual report on form 10-k will be important in determining future results. consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. actual future results may vary materially from expected results. we also provide a cautionary discussion of risks and uncertainties under "risk factors" above in this item 1a. these are factors and uncertainties that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results. other factors and uncertainties besides those listed there could also adversely affect us. 51 table of contents without limiting the foregoing, the words "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "intends," "expects" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. there are a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond our control, including the factors and uncertainties set forth under "risk factors" above in this item 1a. in addition, the forward-looking statements contained herein represent our estimate only as of the date of this filing and should not be relied upon as representing our estimate as of any subsequent date. while we may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, we specifically disclaim any obligation to do so to reflect actual results, changes in assumptions or changes in other factors affecting such forward-looking statements. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 78 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk as part of our investment portfolio, we own financial instruments that are sensitive to market risks. the investment portfolio is used to preserve our capital until it is required to fund operations, including our research and development activities. none of these market risk-sensitive instruments are held for trading purposes. we do not have derivative financial instruments in our investment portfolio. interest rate risk we invest our cash in a variety of financial instruments, principally securities issued by the united states government and its agencies, investment grade corporate bonds and commercial paper, and money market funds. these investments are denominated in united states dollars. all of our interest-bearing securities are subject to interest rate risk, and could decline in value if interest rates fluctuate. substantially all of our investment portfolio consists of marketable securities with active secondary or resale markets to help ensure portfolio liquidity, and we have implemented guidelines limiting the term-to-maturity of our investment instruments. due to the conservative nature of these instruments, we do not believe that we have a material exposure to interest rate risk. 78 table of contents foreign exchange market risk as a result of our foreign operations, we face exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily the euro, swiss franc, british pound and canadian dollar against the u.s. dollar. the current exposures arise primarily from cash, accounts receivable, intercompany receivables and payables, and calculations of royalties receivable from net sales denominated in foreign currencies. both positive and negative impacts to our international product sales from movements in foreign currency exchange rates are partially mitigated by the natural, opposite impact that foreign currency exchange rates have on our international operating expenses. we are considering a foreign currency management program with the objective of reducing the volatility of exchange rate fluctuations on our operating results and to increase the visibility of the foreign exchange impact on forecasted revenues.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 72