risk factors 18 risk factors risks relating to our business we are at the early stage of our drug discovery and development efforts and we may be unsuccessful in our efforts. we are in the early stage of building our drug discovery and development operations. our ability to discover, develop, and commercialize pharmaceutical products will depend on our ability to: hire and retain key scientific employees; identify high quality therapeutic targets; identify potential drug candidates; develop products internally or license drug candidates from others; identify and enroll suitable human subjects, either in the united states or abroad, for our clinical trials; complete laboratory testing and clinical trials on humans; obtain and maintain necessary intellectual property rights to our products; obtain and maintain necessary regulatory approvals for our products, both in the united states and abroad; enter into arrangements with third parties to provide services or to manufacture our products on our behalf; deploy sales and marketing resources effectively or enter into arrangements with third parties to provide these functions; lease facilities at reasonable rates to support our growth; and enter into arrangements with third parties to license and commercialize our products. we have limited experience with the activities listed above and may not be successful in discovering, developing, or commercializing drug products. our efforts to discover and develop potential drug candidates may not lead to the discovery, development, commercialization or marketing of drug products. our drug candidates in clinical trials are in early stage phase i and phase ii trials. our other drug candidates are still undergoing preclinical testing. we have also licensed to pfizer our portfolio of ccr2 antagonist compounds. we have no control over the further clinical development of any compounds we licensed to pfizer. discovery and development of potential drug candidates are expensive and time-consuming, and we do not know if our efforts will lead to discovery of any drug candidates that can be successfully developed and marketed. if our efforts do not lead to the discovery of a suitable drug candidate, we may be unable to grow our clinical pipeline or we may be unable to enter into agreements with collaborators who are willing to develop our drug candidates. of the compounds that we identify as potential drug products or that we in-license from other companies, only a few, if any, are likely to lead to successful drug development programs. for example, in 2006, we discontinued the development of dfc, which was at the time our most advanced drug candidate and was in phase iib clinical trials. prior to discontinuation of the dfc program, we expended a significant amount of effort and money on that program. 18 the success of our drug discovery and development efforts may depend on our ability to find suitable collaborators to fully exploit our capabilities. if we are unable to establish collaborations or if these future collaborations are unsuccessful, our research and development efforts may be unsuccessful, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. an important element of our business strategy will be to enter into collaborative or license arrangements with other parties, such as our collaboration with pfizer, under which we license our drug candidates to those parties for development and commercialization. we expect that while we plan to conduct initial clinical trials on our drug candidates, we may need to seek collaborators for our drug candidates such as our chemokine receptor antagonists because of the expense, effort and expertise required to continue additional clinical trials and further develop those drug candidates. we may also seek collaborators for our drug candidates that target large primary care indications such as diabetes because of the expense involved in further clinical development of these indications and in establishing a sales and marketing organization to address these indications. because collaboration arrangements are complex to negotiate, we may not be successful in our attempts to establish these arrangements. also, we may not have drug compounds that are desirable to other parties, or we may be unwilling to license a drug compound because the party interested in it is a competitor. the terms of any such arrangements that we establish may not be favorable to us. alternatively, potential collaborators may decide against entering into an agreement with us because of our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position or for scientific, commercial or other reasons. if we are not able to establish collaborative agreements, we may not be able to develop and commercialize a drug product, which would adversely affect our business and our revenues. in order for any of these collaboration or license arrangements to be successful, we must first identify potential collaborators or licensees whose capabilities complement and integrate well with ours. we may rely on these arrangements for not only financial resources, but also for expertise or economies of scale that we expect to need in the future relating to clinical trials, manufacturing, sales and marketing, and for licenses to technology rights. however, it is likely that we will not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators or licensees devote to our programs or potential products. if our collaborators or licensees prove difficult to work with, are less skilled than we originally expected or do not devote adequate resources to the program, the relationship will not be successful. if a business combination involving a collaborator or licensees and a third party were to occur, the effect could be to diminish, terminate or cause delays in development of a potential product. we face significant competition for our drug discovery and development efforts, and if we do not compete effectively, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated. the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. our drug discovery and development efforts may target diseases and conditions that are already subject to existing therapies or that are being developed by our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, more experience in completing preclinical testing and clinical trials, and formulation, marketing and manufacturing capabilities. as a result of these resources, our competitors may develop drug products that render our products obsolete or noncompetitive by developing more effective drugs or by developing their products more efficiently. our ability to develop competitive products would be limited if our competitors succeeded in obtaining regulatory approvals for drug candidates more rapidly than we were able to or in obtaining patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limited our drug development efforts. any drugs resulting from our research and development efforts, or from our joint efforts with collaborators or licensees, might not be able to compete successfully with our competitors' existing and future products, or obtain regulatory approval in the united states or elsewhere. 19 we depend on our collaboration with pfizer for the development and commercialization of ccr2 antagonist compounds. under our collaborative research and license agreement with pfizer, pfizer gained worldwide development and commercialization rights to our portfolio of ccr2 antagonist compounds. pfizer's rights extend to the full scope of potential indications, with the exception of multiple sclerosis and autoimmune nephritides. although pfizer is required to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize ccr2 antagonists for the indications for which they are responsible, we cannot control the amount and timing of resources pfizer may devote to the development of ccr2 antagonists. any failure of pfizer to perform its obligations under our agreement could negatively impact the development of ccr2 antagonists, lead to our loss of potential revenues from product sales and milestones and delay our achievement, if any, of profitability. pfizer has certain rights to terminate the license agreement, including the right to terminate upon 90 days' notice for any reason. pfizer also has the right to terminate its rights and obligations with respect to certain indications. if pfizer terminates the license agreement or its rights with respect to certain indications, we may not be able to find a new collaborator to replace pfizer, and our business could be adversely affected. if conflicts arise between our collaborators, including pfizer, licensees, or advisors and us, our collaborators, licensees, or advisors may act in their self-interest, which may adversely affect our business. if conflicts arise between us and our collaborators or licensees, including pfizer, or our scientific advisors, the other party may act in its self-interest and not in the interest of our stockholders. conflicts may arise with our collaborators or licensees if they pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products either on their own or in collaboration with others as a means for developing treatments for the diseases that we have targeted. competing products, either developed by these future collaborators or licensees or to which these future collaborators or licensees have rights, may result in their withdrawal of support for our product candidates. additionally, conflicts may arise if there is a dispute about the achievement and payment of a milestone amount or the ownership of intellectual property that is developed during the course of the relationship. similarly, the parties to a collaboration or license agreement may disagree as to which party owns newly developed products. should an agreement be terminated as a result of a dispute and before we have realized the benefits of the collaboration or license, our reputation could be harmed and we may not obtain revenues that we anticipated receiving. we have limited expertise with and capacity to conduct preclinical testing and clinical trials, and our resulting dependence on other parties could result in delays in and additional costs for our drug development efforts. we have only limited experience with clinical trials, formulation, manufacturing and commercialization of drug products. we also have limited internal resources and capacity to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials. as a result, we intend to hire clinical research organizations, or cros, to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials for drug candidates. if the cros that we hire to perform our preclinical testing and clinical trials or our collaborators or licensees do not meet deadlines, do not follow proper procedures, or a conflict arises between us and our cros, our preclinical testing and clinical trials may take longer than expected, may be delayed or may be terminated. if we were forced to find a replacement entity to perform any of our preclinical testing or clinical trials, we may not be able to find a suitable entity on favorable terms, or at all. even if we were able to find another company to perform a preclinical test or clinical trial, the delay in the test or trial 20 may result in significant expenditures. events such as these may result in delays in our obtaining regulatory approval for our drug candidates or our ability to commercialize our products and could result in increased expenditures that would adversely affect our operating results. in addition, for some of our drug candidates, we plan to contract with collaborators or licensees to advance those candidates through later-stage, more expensive clinical trials, rather than invest our own resources to perform these clinical trials. depending on the terms of our agreements with these collaborators or licensees, we may not have any control over the conduct of these clinical trials, and in any event we would be subject to the risks associated with depending on collaborators or licensees to develop these drug candidates. if we fail to enter into additional licensing agreements or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our business and operations might be adversely affected. in addition to establishing collaborative or license arrangements under which other parties license our drug candidates for development and commercialization, we intend to continue to explore opportunities to develop our clinical pipeline by in-licensing drug compounds that fit within our expertise and research and development capabilities. we may be unable to enter into any additional in-licensing agreements because suitable product candidates that are within our expertise may not be available to us on terms that are acceptable to us or because competitors with greater resources seek to in-license the same product candidates. product candidates that we would like to develop may not be available to us because they are controlled by competitors who are unwilling to license the rights to the drug compound or candidate to us. in addition, we may enter into license agreements that are unsuccessful and our business and operations might be adversely affected by the termination of a drug candidate and termination and winding down of the related license agreement. for example, in april 2006, we announced the discontinuation of development of dfc and we gave notice of termination of our collaborative license agreement with pharmasset, inc., which licensed dfc to us. dfc was at the time our most advanced drug candidate. we may also need to license drug delivery or other technology in order to continue to develop our drug candidate pipeline. if we are unable to enter into additional agreements to license drug candidates, drug delivery technology or other technology or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our research and development efforts could be adversely affected. if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval to develop and market products in the united states and foreign jurisdictions, we will not be permitted to manufacture or commercialize products resulting from our research. in order to manufacture and commercialize drug products in the united states, our drug candidates will have to obtain regulatory approval from the food and drug administration, or the fda. satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years. to obtain regulatory approval, we must first show that our drug products are safe and effective for target indications through preclinical testing (animal testing) and clinical trials (human testing). preclinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes, and we do not know whether the fda will allow us to undertake clinical trials of any potential drug products in addition to our compounds currently in clinical trials. completion of clinical trials may take several years and failure may occur at any stage of testing. the length of time required varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product candidate. interim results of a preclinical test or clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results, and acceptable results in early clinical trials may not be repeated in later clinical trials. for example, a drug candidate that is successful at the preclinical level may cause harmful or 21 dangerous side effects when tested at the clinical level. our rate of commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including: the high degree of risk associated with drug development; our inability to formulate or manufacture sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials; variability in the number and types of patients available for each study; difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, resulting in incomplete data; unforeseen safety issues or side effects; poor or unanticipated effectiveness of drug candidates during the clinical trials; or government or regulatory delays. data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretation, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. a number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving promising results in earlier clinical trials. in addition, regulatory authorities may refuse or delay approval as a result of other factors, such as changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development and regulatory agency review. for example, the fda has in the past required and could in the future require that we conduct additional trials of any of our product candidates, which would result in delays. due, in part, to the early stage of our drug candidate research and development process, we cannot predict whether regulatory approval will be obtained for any product we develop. our drug candidates in clinical trials are in early stage phase i and phase ii trials. our other drug candidates are still undergoing preclinical testing. we have also licensed to pfizer our portfolio of ccr2 antagonist compounds. we have no control over the further clinical development of any compounds we licensed to pfizer. compounds developed by us, alone or with other parties, may not prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials and may not meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements needed to receive marketing approval. if regulatory approval of a product is granted, this approval will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which the product is demonstrated through clinical trials to be safe and effective. failure to obtain regulatory approval would delay or prevent us from commercializing products. outside the united states, our ability to market a product is contingent upon receiving a marketing authorization from the appropriate regulatory authorities. this foreign regulatory approval process typically includes all of the risks associated with the fda approval process described above and may also include additional risks. our reliance on other parties to manufacture our drug candidates could result in a short supply of the drugs, delays in clinical trials or drug development, increased costs and withdrawal or denial of the regulatory authority's approval. we do not currently operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of our drug candidates. we expect to continue to rely on third parties for the manufacture of our drug candidates and any drug products that we may develop. the fda requires that drug products be manufactured according to its current good manufacturing practices, or cgmp, regulations and a limited number of manufacturers comply with these requirements. if the other parties that we choose to manufacture our drug products are not compliant with cgmp, the fda may not approve our application to manufacture our drug products. we may not be able to arrange for our drug candidates or any drug products that we may develop to be manufactured by one of these parties on reasonable 22 terms, if at all. failure to comply with cgmp in the manufacture of our products could result in the fda withdrawing or denying regulatory approval of our drug product or other enforcement actions. we may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of our drug candidates or any drug products we may develop if our designated manufacturers do not have the capacity or capability to manufacture our products according to our schedule and specifications. also, raw materials that may be required to manufacture any products we develop may only be available from a limited number of suppliers. if we have promised delivery of a new product and are unable to meet the delivery requirement due to manufacturing difficulties, our development programs would be delayed, and we may have to expend additional sums in order to ensure that manufacturing capacity is available when we need it even if we do not use all of the manufacturing capacity. this expense would adversely affect our operating results. manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, especially in scaling up initial production. these problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control and assurance and shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. we may not be able to adequately manage and oversee the manufacturers we choose, they may not perform as agreed or they may terminate their agreements with us. foreign manufacturing approval processes typically include all of the risks associated with the fda approval process for manufacturing and may also include additional risks. we may incur additional expense in order to market our drug products. we do not have experience marketing drug products. if the fda grants regulatory approval to one or more of our drug candidates, we would have to employ additional personnel or engage another party to market our drug products, which would be an additional expense to us. we might not be able to commercialize our drug candidates successfully, and we may spend significant time and money attempting to do so. we have a limited number of drug candidates in early stage phase i and phase ii clinical trials. we have also licensed to pfizer our portfolio of ccr2 antagonist compounds. we, or our collaborators or licensees, may decide to discontinue development of any or all of our drug candidates at any time for commercial, scientific or other reasons. we discontinued development of dfc in april 2006 for safety reasons. if a product is developed, but is not marketed, we may have spent significant amounts of time and money on it, which would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. even if a drug candidate that we develop receives regulatory approval, we may decide not to commercialize it if we determine that commercialization of that product would require more money and time than we are willing to invest. for example, drugs that receive approval are subject to post-regulatory surveillance and may have to be withdrawn from the market if previously unknown side effects occur. at this point, the regulatory agencies may require additional clinical trials or testing. once a drug is marketed, if it causes side effects, the drug product may be recalled or may be subject to reformulation, additional studies, changes in labeling, warnings to the public and negative publicity. as a result, we may not continue to commercialize a product even though it has obtained regulatory approval. further, we may decide not to continue to commercialize a product if the market does not accept the product because it is too expensive and third parties such as insurance companies or medicare have not approved it for substantial reimbursement. in addition, we may decide not to continue to commercialize a product if another product comes on the market that is as effective but has fewer side effects. there is also a risk that competitors may develop similar or superior products or have proprietary rights that preclude us from ultimately marketing our products. 23 our ability to generate revenues will be diminished if we are unable to obtain acceptable prices or an adequate level of reimbursement from payors of healthcare costs. the continuing efforts of government and insurance companies, health maintenance organizations, or hmos, and other payors of healthcare costs to contain or reduce costs of health care may affect our future revenues and profitability, and the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborative or license partners and the availability of capital. for example, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. in the united states, given recent federal and state government initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of health care, the u.s. congress and state legislatures will likely continue to focus on health care reform, the cost of prescription pharmaceuticals and on the reform of the medicare and medicaid systems. while we cannot predict whether any such legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, the announcement or adoption of these proposals could reduce the price that we or any of our collaborators or licensees receive for any products in the future. our ability to commercialize our products successfully will depend in part on the extent to which appropriate reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatment are obtained by governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as hmos. third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. also, the trend toward managed health care in the united states and the concurrent growth of organizations such as hmos, which could control or significantly influence the purchase of health care services and products, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may all result in lower prices for or rejection of our products. the cost containment measures that health care payors and providers are instituting and the effect of any health care reform could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. as our drug discovery and development operations are conducted at our headquarters in wilmington, delaware, the loss of access to this facility would negatively impact our business. our facility in wilmington, delaware is our headquarters and is also where we conduct all of our drug discovery operations and research and development activities. our lease contains provisions that provide for its early termination upon the occurrence of certain events of default or upon a change of control. further, our headquarters facility is located in a large research and development complex that may be temporarily or permanently shutdown if certain environmental or other hazardous conditions were to occur within the complex. in addition, actions of activists opposed to aspects of pharmaceutical research may disrupt our experiments or our ability to access or use our facilities. the loss of access to or use of our wilmington, delaware, facility, either on a temporary or permanent basis, or early termination of our lease would result in an interruption of our business and, consequently, would adversely affect the advancement of our drug discovery and development programs and our overall business. we depend on key employees in a competitive market for skilled personnel, and the loss of the services of any of our key employees or our inability to attract and retain additional personnel would affect our ability to expand our drug discovery and development programs and achieve our objectives. we are highly dependent on the principal members of our management, operations and scientific staff. we experience intense competition for qualified personnel. our future success also depends in part on the continued service of our executive management team, key scientific and management personnel and our ability to recruit, train and retain essential scientific personnel for our drug discovery and development programs, including those who will be responsible for overseeing our preclinical testing and clinical trials as well as for the establishment of collaborations with other companies. if we lose the services of any of these people or if we are unable to recruit sufficient qualified personnel, our research and product development goals, including the identification and establishment of key collaborations, operations and marketing efforts could be delayed or curtailed. we do not maintain "key person" insurance on any of our employees. 24 if we fail to manage our growth effectively, our ability to develop and commercialize products could suffer. we expect that if our clinical drug candidates continue to progress in development, we continue to build our development organization and our drug discovery efforts continue to generate drug candidates, we will require significant additional investment in personnel, management and resources. our ability to commercialize our drug candidates and to achieve our research and development objectives depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands and expand our internal organization, systems and controls to accommodate additional anticipated growth. if we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business could be harmed and our ability to execute our business strategy could suffer. we may encounter difficulties in integrating companies we acquire, which may harm our operations and financial results. as part of our business strategy, we have in the past and may in the future acquire assets, technologies, compounds and businesses. our past acquisitions, such as the acquisition of maxia have involved, and our future acquisitions may involve, risks such as the following: we may be exposed to unknown liabilities of acquired companies; our acquisition and integration costs may be higher than we anticipated and may cause our quarterly and annual operating results to fluctuate; we may experience difficulty and expense in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses, disrupting our business and diverting our management's time and attention; we may be unable to integrate or complete the development and application of acquired technology, compounds or drug candidates; we may experience difficulties in establishing and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; our relationships with key customers, suppliers, or collaborative or license partners of acquired businesses may be impaired, due to changes in management and ownership of the acquired businesses; we may be unable to retain key employees of the acquired businesses; we may incur amortization or impairment expenses if an acquisition results in significant goodwill or other intangible assets; or our stockholders may be diluted if we pay for the acquisition with equity securities. if product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we could face substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products and our results of operations could be harmed. the clinical trials and marketing of medical products that are intended for human use entails an inherent risk of product liability. if any product that we or any of our collaborators or licensees develops causes or is alleged to cause injury or is found to be unsuitable during clinical trials, manufacturing or sale, we may be held liable. if we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities, including substantial damages to be paid to the plaintiffs and legal costs, or we may be required to limit commercialization of our products. our product liability insurance policy that provides coverage for liabilities arising from our clinical trials may not fully cover our potential liabilities. in addition, we may determine that we should increase our coverage upon the undertaking of new clinical trials, and this insurance may be prohibitively expensive to us or our collaborators or licensees and may not fully cover our potential liabilities. our inability to 25 obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of pharmaceutical products we develop, alone or with our collaborators. additionally, any product liability lawsuit could cause injury to our reputation, recall of products, participants to withdraw from clinical trials, and potential collaborators or licensees to seek other partners, any of which could impact our results of operations. because our activities involve the use of hazardous materials, we may be subject to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials that could be time consuming and costly. we are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the use, handling, storage and disposal of regulated substances and the health and safety of our employees. our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous and radioactive materials and biological waste resulting in the production of hazardous waste products. we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. if any injury or contamination results from our use or the use by our collaborators or licensees of these materials, we may be sued and our liability may exceed our insurance coverage and our total assets. further, we may be required to indemnify our collaborators or licensees against all damages and other liabilities arising out of our development activities or products produced in connection with these collaborations or licenses. compliance with the applicable environmental and workplace laws and regulations is expensive. future changes to environmental, health, workplace and safety laws could cause us to incur additional expense or may restrict our operations or impair our research, development and production efforts. risks relating to our financial results we expect to incur losses in the future and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. we had net losses from inception in 1991 through 1996 and in 1999 through 2007. because of those losses, we had an accumulated deficit of $1.0 billion as of december 31, 2007. we will continue to spend significant amounts on our efforts to discover and develop drugs. as a result, we expect to continue to incur losses in 2008 and in future periods as well. we anticipate that our drug discovery and development efforts will increase as we focus on the studies, including preclinical tests and clinical trials prior to seeking regulatory approval, that are required before we can sell a drug product. the development of drug products will require us to spend significant funds on research, development, testing, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing and marketing. to date, we do not have any drug products that have generated revenues and we cannot assure you that we will generate revenues from the drug candidates that we license or develop for several years, if ever. we cannot be certain whether or when we will achieve profitability because of the significant uncertainties relating to our ability to generate commercially successful drug products. even if we were successful in obtaining regulatory approvals for manufacturing and commercializing a drug candidate, we expect that we will continue to incur losses if our drug products do not generate significant revenues. if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability. we will need additional capital in the future. the capital markets may not permit us to raise additional capital at the time that we require it, which could result in limitations on our research and development or commercialization efforts or the loss of certain of our rights in our technologies or drug candidates. our future funding requirements will depend on many factors and we anticipate that we will need to raise additional capital to fund our business plan and research and development efforts going-forward. additional factors that may affect our future funding requirements include: any changes in the breadth of our research and development programs; 26 the results of research and development, preclinical testing and clinical trials conducted by us or our future collaborative partners or licensees, if any; the acquisition or licensing of businesses, technologies or compounds, if any; our ability to maintain and establish new corporate relationships and research collaborations; competing technological and market developments; the amount of revenues generated from our business activities, if any; the time and costs involved in filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent and intellectual property claims; the receipt of contingent licensing or milestone fees or royalties on product sales from our current or future collaborative and license arrangements, if established; and the timing of regulatory approvals, if any. if we require additional capital at a time when investment in companies such as ours, or in the marketplace generally, is limited due to the then prevailing market or other conditions, we may have to scale back our operations, eliminate one or more of our research or development programs, or attempt to obtain funds by entering into an agreement with a collaborative partner that would result in terms that are not favorable to us or relinquishing our rights in certain of our proprietary technologies or drug candidates. if we are unable to raise funds at the time that we desire or at any time thereafter on acceptable terms, we may not be able to continue to develop our potential drug products. the sale of equity or additional convertible debt securities in the future would be dilutive to our stockholders, and debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that could restrict our operations or our ability to incur further indebtedness. our current revenues are derived from collaborations and from licensing our intellectual property. if we are unable to achieve milestones, develop products or renew or enter into new collaborations, our revenues may decrease, and future milestone and royalty payments from our gene and genomics-related intellectual property may not contribute significantly to revenues for several years, and may never result in revenues. we derived substantially all of our revenues for the year ended december 31, 2007 from our collaborative research and license agreement with pfizer and from licensing our intellectual property to others. we may be unable to enter into additional collaborative agreements. revenues from research and development collaborations depend upon continuation of the collaborations, the achievement of milestones and royalties we earn from any future products developed from our research. if we are unable to successfully achieve milestones or our collaborators fail to develop successful products, we will not earn the revenues contemplated under our collaborative agreements. part of our prior strategy was to license to our database customers and to other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies our know-how and patent rights associated with the information we have generated in the creation of our proprietary databases, for use in the discovery and development of potential pharmaceutical, diagnostic or other products. any potential product that is the subject of such a license will require several years of further development, clinical trials and regulatory approval before commercialization, all of which is beyond our control, and possibly beyond the control of our licensee. these licensees may not develop the potential product if they do not devote the necessary resources or decide that they do not want to expend the resources to do the clinical trials necessary to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals. therefore, milestone or royalty payments from these licenses may not contribute to our revenues for several years, if at all. we have decided to discontinue some of our gene and genomics-related patent prosecution and maintenance, and may in the future decide to discontinue additional gene and 27 genomics-related patent prosecution and maintenance, which could limit our ability to receive license-based revenues from our gene and genomics-related patent portfolio. we have a large amount of debt and our debt service obligations may prevent us from taking actions that we would otherwise consider to be in our best interests. as of december 31, 2007, the aggregate principal amount of total consolidated debt was $421.8 million and our stockholders' deficit was $159.5 million. the documents pursuant to which our outstanding convertible senior and subordinated notes were issued do not limit the issuance of additional indebtedness. our substantial leverage could have significant negative consequences for our future operations, including: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital and research and development expenditures, and general corporate purposes; requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our expected cash flow or our existing cash to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our cash available for other purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures and research and development expenditures; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; or placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. in the past five years, we have had negative cash flow from operations. we likely will not generate sufficient cash flow from our operations in the future to enable us to meet our anticipated fixed charges, including our debt service requirements with respect to our outstanding convertible senior notes and convertible subordinated notes. as of december 31, 2007, $151.8 million aggregate principal amount of our 3 1 / 2 % convertible senior notes due 2011 was outstanding. our annual interest payments, beginning in 2007, for the 3 1 / 2 % convertible senior notes through 2010, assuming none of these notes are converted, redeemed, repurchased or exchanged, are $5.3 million, and an additional $2.6 million in interest is payable in 2011. as of december 31, 2007, $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 3 1 / 2 % convertible subordinated notes due 2011 was outstanding. our annual interest payments for the 3 1 / 2 % convertible subordinated notes through 2010, assuming none of these notes are converted, redeemed, repurchased or exchanged, are $8.8 million, and an additional $4.4 million in interest is payable in 2011. as of december 31, 2007, $20.0 million aggregate principal amount of the non-interest bearing convertible subordinated notes held by pfizer was outstanding, of which $10.0 million is due in 2013 and $10.0 million is due in 2014. if we are unable to generate cash from our operations or raise additional cash through financings sufficient to meet these obligations, we will need to use existing cash or liquidate marketable securities in order to fund these obligations, which may delay or curtail our research, development and commercialization programs. risks relating to intellectual property and legal matters if we are subject to arbitration, litigation and infringement claims, they could be costly and disrupt our drug discovery and development efforts. the technology that we use to make and develop our drug products, the technology that we incorporate in our products, and the products we are developing may be subject to claims that they infringe the patents or proprietary rights of others. the success of our drug discovery and development efforts will also depend on our ability to develop new compounds, drugs and technologies without 28 infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. we are aware of patents and patent applications filed in certain countries claiming certain intellectual property relating to certain of our drug discovery targets such as ccr5. while the validity of issued patents, patentability of pending patent applications and applicability of any of them to our programs are uncertain, if any of these patents are asserted against us or if we choose to license any of these patents, our ability to commercialize our products could be harmed or the potential return to us from any product that may be successfully commercialized could be diminished. from time to time we may receive notices from third parties offering licenses to technology or alleging patent, trademark, or copyright infringement, claims regarding trade secrets or other contract claims. receipt of these notices could result in significant costs as a result of the diversion of the attention of management from our drug discovery and development efforts. parties sending these notices may have brought and in the future may bring litigation against us or seek arbitration relating to contract claims. we may be involved in future lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights or contract violations. in addition, litigation or other legal proceedings may be necessary to: assert claims of infringement; enforce our patents or trademarks; protect our trade secrets or know-how; or determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. we may be unsuccessful in defending or pursuing these lawsuits, claims or other legal proceedings. regardless of the outcome, litigation or other legal proceedings can be very costly and can divert management's efforts. for example, we recently settled patent litigation with invitrogen corporation. we incurred significant expenses related to this litigation and, as part of the settlement, paid invitrogen $3.4 million. an adverse determination may subject us to significant liabilities or require us or our collaborators or licensees to seek licenses to other parties' patents or proprietary rights. we or our collaborators or licensees may also be restricted or prevented from manufacturing or selling a drug or other product that we or they develop. further, we or our future collaborators or licensees may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. if we are unable to develop non-infringing technology or license technology on a timely basis or on reasonable terms, our business could be harmed. we may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our proprietary information, which may result in its unauthorized use, a loss of revenue under a collaboration agreement or loss of sales to generic versions of our products or otherwise reduce our ability to compete in developing and commercializing products. our business and competitive position depends in significant part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology, including any drug products that we create. despite our efforts to protect this information, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. for example, one of our collaborators may disclose proprietary information pertaining to our drug discovery efforts. our patent applications may fail to result in issued patents. in addition, because patent applications can take several years to issue as patents, there may be pending patent applications of others that may later issue as patents that cover some aspect of our drug candidates. our existing patents and any future patents we may obtain may not be broad enough to protect our products or all of the potential uses of our products, or otherwise prevent others from developing competing products or technologies. in addition, our patents may be challenged and invalidated or may 29 fail to provide us with any competitive advantages if, for example, others were first to invent or first to file a patent application for the technologies and products covered by our patents. additionally, when we do not control the prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of certain important intellectual property, such as a drug compound in-licensed to us or subject to a collaboration with a third party, the protection of the intellectual property rights may not be in our hands. if we do not control the intellectual property rights in-licensed to us with respect to a compound and the entity that controls the intellectual property rights does not adequately protect those rights, our rights may be impaired, which may impact our ability to develop, market and commercialize the in-licensed compound. our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate, and our competitors may: independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, products and techniques; otherwise gain access to our proprietary information; or design around patents issued to us or our other intellectual property. we pursue a policy of having our employees, consultants and advisors execute proprietary information and invention agreements when they begin working for us. however, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. if we fail to maintain trade secret and patent protection, our potential, future revenues may be decreased. if the effective term of our patents is decreased due to changes in the united states patent laws or if we need to refile some of our patent applications, the value of our patent portfolio and the revenues we derive from it may be decreased. the value of our patents depends in part on their duration. a shorter period of patent protection could lessen the value of our rights under any patents that we obtain and may decrease the revenues we derive from our patents. the united states patent laws were amended in 1995 to change the term of patent protection from 17 years from patent issuance to 20 years from the earliest effective filing date of the application. because the time from filing to issuance of biotechnology applications may be more than three years depending on the subject matter, a 20-year patent term from the filing date may result in substantially shorter patent protection. also, we may need to refile some of our applications filed before 1995 that claim large numbers of genes or other additional subject matter and, in these situations, the patent term will be measured from the date of the earliest priority application. this would shorten our period of patent exclusivity and may decrease the revenues that we might derive from the patents. international patent protection is particularly uncertain and costly, and if we are involved in opposition proceedings in foreign countries, we may have to expend substantial sums and management resources. biotechnology and pharmaceutical patent law outside the united states is even more uncertain and costly than in the united states and is currently undergoing review and revision in many countries. further, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as united states laws. for example, certain countries do not grant patent claims that are directed to the treatment of humans. we may participate in opposition proceedings to determine the validity of our foreign patents or our competitors' foreign patents, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our investments in marketable securities, which are composed primarily of investment-grade corporate bonds, u.s. government agency debt securities, mortgage and asset-backed securities and money market funds, are subject to default, changes in credit rating and changes in market value. these investments are also subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market rate interest rates increase. as of december 31, 2007, cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term marketable securities were $257.3 million. due to the nature of these investments, if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as of december 31, 2007 the decline in fair value would not be material. 46risk factors 17 risk factors risks relating to our business we are at the early stage of our drug discovery and development efforts and we may be unsuccessful in our efforts. we are in the early stage of building our drug discovery and development operations. our ability to discover, develop and commercialize pharmaceutical products will depend on our ability to: hire and retain key scientific employees; identify high quality therapeutic targets; identify potential drug candidates; develop products internally or license drug candidates from others; identify and enroll suitable human subjects, either in the united states or abroad, for our clinical trials; complete laboratory testing and clinical trials on humans; obtain and maintain necessary intellectual property rights to our products; obtain and maintain necessary regulatory approvals for our products, both in the united states and abroad; enter into arrangements with third parties to provide services or to manufacture our products on our behalf; deploy sales and marketing resources effectively or enter into arrangements with third parties to provide these functions; lease facilities at reasonable rates to support our growth; and enter into arrangements with third parties to license and commercialize our products. we have limited experience with the activities listed above and may not be successful in discovering, developing, or commercializing drug products. our efforts to discover and develop potential drug candidates may not lead to the discovery, development, commercialization or marketing of drug products. our drug candidates in clinical trials are in phase i and phase ii trials. our other drug candidates are still undergoing preclinical testing. we have also licensed to pfizer our portfolio of ccr2 antagonist compounds. we have no control over the further clinical development of any compounds we licensed to pfizer. discovery and development of potential drug candidates are expensive and time-consuming, and we do not know if our efforts will lead to discovery of any drug candidates that can be successfully developed and marketed. if our efforts do not lead to the discovery of a suitable drug candidate, we may be unable to grow our clinical pipeline or we may be unable to enter into agreements with collaborators who are willing to develop our drug candidates. of the compounds that we identify as potential drug products or that we in-license from other companies, only a few, if any, are likely to lead to successful drug development programs. for example, in 2006, we discontinued the development of dfc, which was at the time our most advanced drug candidate and was in phase iib clinical trials. prior to discontinuation of the dfc program, we expended a significant amount of effort and money on that program. 17 table of contents the success of our drug discovery and development efforts may depend on our ability to find suitable collaborators to fully exploit our capabilities. if we are unable to establish collaborations or if these future collaborations are unsuccessful, our research and development efforts may be unsuccessful, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. an important element of our business strategy will be to enter into collaborative or license arrangements with other parties, such as our collaboration with pfizer, under which we license our drug candidates to those parties for development and commercialization. we expect that while we plan to conduct initial clinical trials on our drug candidates, we may need to seek collaborators for our drug candidates such as our chemokine receptor antagonists because of the expense, effort and expertise required to continue additional clinical trials and further develop those drug candidates. we may also seek collaborators for our drug candidates that target large primary care indications such as diabetes because of the expense involved in further clinical development of these indications and in establishing a sales and marketing organization to address these indications. because collaboration arrangements are complex to negotiate, we may not be successful in our attempts to establish these arrangements. also, we may not have drug compounds that are desirable to other parties, or we may be unwilling to license a drug compound because the party interested in it is a competitor. the terms of any such arrangements that we establish may not be favorable to us. alternatively, potential collaborators may decide against entering into an agreement with us because of our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position or for scientific, commercial or other reasons. if we are not able to establish collaborative agreements, we may not be able to develop and commercialize a drug product, which would adversely affect our business and our revenues. in order for any of these collaboration or license arrangements to be successful, we must first identify potential collaborators or licensees whose capabilities complement and integrate well with ours. we may rely on these arrangements for not only financial resources, but also for expertise or economies of scale that we expect to need in the future relating to clinical trials, manufacturing, sales and marketing, and for licenses to technology rights. however, it is likely that we will not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators or licensees devote to our programs or potential products. if our collaborators or licensees prove difficult to work with, are less skilled than we originally expected or do not devote adequate resources to the program, the relationship will not be successful. if a business combination involving a collaborator or licensees and a third party were to occur, the effect could be to diminish, terminate or cause delays in development of a potential product. we face significant competition for our drug discovery and development efforts, and if we do not compete effectively, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated. the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. our drug discovery and development efforts may target diseases and conditions that are already subject to existing therapies or that are being developed by our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, more experience in completing preclinical testing and clinical trials, and formulation, marketing and manufacturing capabilities. as a result of these resources, our competitors may develop drug products that render our products obsolete or noncompetitive by developing more effective drugs or by developing their products more efficiently. our ability to develop competitive products would be limited if our competitors succeeded in obtaining regulatory approvals for drug candidates more rapidly than we were able to or in obtaining patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limited our drug development efforts. any drugs resulting from our research and development efforts, or from our joint efforts with collaborators or licensees, might not be able to compete successfully with our competitors' existing and future products, or obtain regulatory approval in the united states or elsewhere. 18 table of contents we depend on our collaboration with pfizer for the development and commercialization of ccr2 antagonist compounds. under our collaborative research and license agreement with pfizer, pfizer gained worldwide development and commercialization rights to our portfolio of ccr2 antagonist compounds. pfizer's rights extend to the full scope of potential indications, with the exception of multiple sclerosis and autoimmune nephritides. although pfizer is required to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize ccr2 antagonists for the indications for which they are responsible, we cannot control the amount and timing of resources pfizer may devote to the development of ccr2 antagonists. any failure of pfizer to perform its obligations under our agreement could negatively impact the development of ccr2 antagonists, lead to our loss of potential revenues from product sales and milestones and delay our achievement, if any, of profitability. pfizer has certain rights to terminate the license agreement, including the right to terminate upon 90 days' notice for any reason. pfizer also has the right to terminate its rights and obligations with respect to certain indications and licensed compounds. if pfizer terminates the license agreement or its rights with respect to certain indications, we may not be able to find a new collaborator to replace pfizer, and our business could be adversely affected. if conflicts arise between our collaborators, including pfizer, licensees, or advisors and us, our collaborators, licensees, or advisors may act in their self-interest, which may adversely affect our business. if conflicts arise between us and our collaborators or licensees, including pfizer, or our scientific advisors, the other party may act in its self-interest and not in the interest of our stockholders. conflicts may arise with our collaborators or licensees if they pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products either on their own or in collaboration with others as a means for developing treatments for the diseases that we have targeted. competing products, either developed by these future collaborators or licensees or to which these future collaborators or licensees have rights, may result in their withdrawal of support for our product candidates. additionally, conflicts may arise if there is a dispute about the achievement and payment of a milestone amount or the ownership of intellectual property that is developed during the course of the relationship. similarly, the parties to a collaboration or license agreement may disagree as to which party owns newly developed products. should an agreement be terminated as a result of a dispute and before we have realized the benefits of the collaboration or license, our reputation could be harmed and we may not obtain revenues that we anticipated receiving. we have limited expertise with and capacity to conduct preclinical testing and clinical trials, and our resulting dependence on other parties could result in delays in and additional costs for our drug development efforts. we have only limited experience with clinical trials, formulation, manufacturing and commercialization of drug products. we also have limited internal resources and capacity to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials. as a result, we intend to continue to hire clinical research organizations, or cros, to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials for drug candidates. if the cros that we hire to perform our preclinical testing and clinical trials or our collaborators or licensees do not meet deadlines, do not follow proper procedures, or a conflict arises between us and our cros, our preclinical testing and clinical trials may take longer than expected, may be delayed or may be terminated. if we were forced to find a replacement entity to perform any of our preclinical testing or clinical trials, we may not be able to find a suitable entity on favorable terms, or at all. even if we were able to find another company to perform a preclinical test or clinical trial, the delay in the test or trial may result in significant additional expenditures. events such as these may result in delays in our obtaining regulatory approval for 19 table of contents our drug candidates or our ability to commercialize our products and could result in increased expenditures that would adversely affect our operating results. in addition, for some of our drug candidates, we plan to contract with collaborators or licensees to advance those candidates through later-stage, more expensive clinical trials, rather than invest our own resources to perform these clinical trials. depending on the terms of our agreements with these collaborators or licensees, we may not have any control over the conduct of these clinical trials, and in any event we would be subject to the risks associated with depending on collaborators or licensees to develop these drug candidates. if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval to develop and market products in the united states and foreign jurisdictions, we will not be permitted to manufacture or commercialize products resulting from our research. in order to manufacture and commercialize drug products in the united states, our drug candidates will have to obtain regulatory approval from the food and drug administration, or the fda. satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years. to obtain regulatory approval, we must first show that our drug products are safe and effective for target indications through preclinical testing (animal testing) and clinical trials (human testing). preclinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes, and we do not know whether the fda will allow us to undertake clinical trials of any potential drug products in addition to our compounds currently in clinical trials. completion of clinical trials may take several years and failure may occur at any stage of testing. the length of time required varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product candidate. interim results of a preclinical test or clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results, and acceptable results in early clinical trials may not be repeated in later clinical trials. for example, a drug candidate that is successful at the preclinical level may cause harmful or dangerous side effects when tested at the clinical level. our rate of commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including: the high degree of risk associated with drug development; our inability to formulate or manufacture sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials; variability in the number and types of patients available for each study; difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, resulting in incomplete data; unforeseen safety issues or side effects; poor or unanticipated effectiveness of drug candidates during the clinical trials; or government or regulatory delays. regulatory authorities may delay or prevent the initiation of clinical trials for our drug candidates. for example, we may be unable to successfully complete discussions with the fda regarding trial design, including agreement on appropriate dosing and specific endpoints, for the registration trials for our jak inhibitor for myelofibrosis. data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretation, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. a number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving promising results in earlier clinical trials. in addition, regulatory authorities may refuse or delay approval as a result of other factors, such as changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development and regulatory agency review. for example, the fda has in the past required and could in the future require that we conduct additional trials of any of our product candidates, which would result in delays. 20 table of contents due, in part, to the early stage of our drug candidate research and development process, we cannot predict whether regulatory approval will be obtained for any product we develop. our drug candidates in clinical trials are in phase i and phase ii trials. our other drug candidates are still undergoing preclinical testing. we have also licensed to pfizer our portfolio of ccr2 antagonist compounds. we have no control over the further clinical development of any compounds we licensed to pfizer. compounds developed by us, alone or with other parties, may not prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials and may not meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements needed to receive marketing approval. if regulatory approval of a product is granted, this approval will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which the product is demonstrated through clinical trials to be safe and effective. failure to obtain regulatory approval would delay or prevent us from commercializing products. outside the united states, our ability to market a product is contingent upon receiving a marketing authorization from the appropriate regulatory authorities. this foreign regulatory approval process typically includes all of the risks associated with the fda approval process described above and may also include additional risks. the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country and may require us to perform additional testing and expend additional resources. approval by the fda does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or by the fda. we may not obtain a special protocol assessment for our jak inhibitor for myelofibrosis. a special protocol assessment does not guarantee any particular outcome from regulatory review, including any regulatory approval. we have filed a request with the fda for a special protocol assessment, or spa, for the registration trials for our jak inhibitor for myelofibrosis. the spa process allows for fda evaluation of a clinical trial protocol intended to form the primary basis of an efficacy claim in support of a new drug application, or nda, and provides a product sponsor with an agreement confirming that the design and size of the trial will be appropriate to form the primary basis of an efficacy claim for an nda if the trial is performed according to the spa. however, an spa must be agreed to by the fda before a trial conducted under an spa can be initiated, and there is no guarantee that an spa would be agreed to on a timely basis. accordingly, if we submit a request for an spa, the initiation of this trial may be delayed. if we believe that the submission of a request for an spa or the failure to reach agreement on an spa will significantly delay the initiation of this trial, we may determine not to revise an spa request in an attempt to reach agreement with the fda or to proceed with the trial and not to wait for agreement on an spa. without the fda's concurrence on an spa, we cannot be certain that the design, conduct and data analysis approach for this clinical trial will be sufficient to allow us to submit or receive approval of a jak inhibitor for the treatment of myelofibrosis. an spa is not a guarantee of approval, and we cannot be certain that the design of, or data collected from, the trial will be adequate to demonstrate safety and efficacy, or otherwise be sufficient to support regulatory approval. there can be no assurance that the terms of an spa will ultimately be binding on the fda, and the fda is not obligated to approve an nda, if any, even if the clinical outcome is positive. the fda retains significant latitude and discretion in interpreting the terms of an spa and the data and results from a clinical trial, and can require trial design changes if issues arise essential to determining safety or efficacy. in addition, data may subsequently become available that causes the fda to reconsider the previously agreed upon scope of review and the fda may have subsequent safety or efficacy concerns that override an spa, and we can give no assurance that as clinical trials proceed or as part of an nda review process, if any, the fda will determine that a previously approved spa is still valid. additionally, an spa may be changed only with written agreement of the fda, and any further changes we may propose to the protocol will remain subject to the fda's approval. the fda may not agree to any such an amendment and, even if they agree, they may request other amendments to the trial 21 table of contents design that could require additional cost and time, as well as increase the degree of difficulty in reaching clinical endpoints. as a result, even with an spa, we cannot be certain that the trial results will be found to be adequate to support an efficacy claim and product approval. our reliance on other parties to manufacture our drug candidates could result in a short supply of the drugs, delays in clinical trials or drug development, increased costs and withdrawal or denial of the regulatory authority's approval. we do not currently operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of our drug candidates. we expect to continue to rely on third parties for the manufacture of our drug candidates and any drug products that we may develop. the fda requires that drug products be manufactured according to its current good manufacturing practices, or cgmp, regulations and a limited number of manufacturers comply with these requirements. if the other parties that we choose to manufacture our drug products are not compliant with cgmp, the fda may not approve our application to manufacture our drug products. we may not be able to arrange for our drug candidates or any drug products that we may develop to be manufactured by one of these parties on reasonable terms, if at all. failure to comply with cgmp in the manufacture of our products could result in the fda withdrawing or denying regulatory approval of our drug product or other enforcement actions. we may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of our drug candidates or any drug products we may develop if our designated manufacturers do not have the capacity or capability to manufacture our products according to our schedule and specifications. also, raw materials that may be required to manufacture any products we develop may only be available from a limited number of suppliers. if we have promised delivery of a new product and are unable to meet the delivery requirement due to manufacturing difficulties, our development programs would be delayed, and we may have to expend additional sums in order to ensure that manufacturing capacity is available when we need it even if we do not use all of the manufacturing capacity. this expense would adversely affect our operating results. manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, especially in scaling up initial production. these problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control and assurance and shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. we may not be able to adequately manage and oversee the manufacturers we choose, they may not perform as agreed or they may terminate their agreements with us. foreign manufacturing approval processes typically include all of the risks associated with the fda approval process for manufacturing and may also include additional risks. we may incur additional expense in order to market our drug products. we do not have experience marketing drug products. if the fda grants regulatory approval to one or more of our drug candidates, we would have to employ additional personnel or engage another party to market our drug products, which would be an additional expense to us. we might not be able to commercialize our drug candidates successfully, and we may spend significant time and money attempting to do so. we have a limited number of drug candidates in phase i and phase ii clinical trials. we have also licensed to pfizer our portfolio of ccr2 antagonist compounds. we, or our collaborators or licensees, may decide to discontinue development of any or all of our drug candidates at any time for commercial, scientific or other reasons. we discontinued development of dfc in april 2006 for safety reasons. in march 2008, we announced that we would not advance our lead ccr5 antagonist into phase iib trials and that we are seeking to out-license this program. if a product is developed, but is not marketed, we may have spent significant amounts of time and money on it, which would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. even if a drug candidate that we develop receives regulatory approval, we may 22 table of contents decide not to commercialize it if we determine that commercialization of that product would require more money and time than we are willing to invest. for example, drugs that receive approval are subject to post-regulatory surveillance and may have to be withdrawn from the market if previously unknown side effects occur. at this point, the regulatory agencies may require additional clinical trials or testing. once a drug is marketed, if it causes side effects, the drug product may be recalled or may be subject to reformulation, additional studies, changes in labeling, warnings to the public and negative publicity. as a result, we may not continue to commercialize a product even though it has obtained regulatory approval. further, we may decide not to continue to commercialize a product if the market does not accept the product because it is too expensive and third parties such as insurance companies or medicare have not approved it for substantial reimbursement. in addition, we may decide not to continue to commercialize a product if another product comes on the market that is as effective but has fewer side effects. there is also a risk that competitors may develop similar or superior products or have proprietary rights that preclude us from ultimately marketing our products. if we fail to enter into additional licensing agreements or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our business and operations might be adversely affected. in addition to establishing collaborative or license arrangements under which other parties license our drug candidates for development and commercialization, we may also need to license drug delivery or other technology in order to continue to develop our drug candidate pipeline. if we are unable to enter into additional agreements to license drug delivery technology or other technology or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our research and development efforts could be adversely affected. our ability to generate revenues will be diminished if we are unable to obtain acceptable prices or an adequate level of reimbursement from payors of healthcare costs. the continuing efforts of government and insurance companies, health maintenance organizations, or hmos, and other payors of healthcare costs to contain or reduce costs of health care may affect our future revenues and profitability, and the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborative or license partners and the availability of capital. for example, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. in the united states, given recent federal and state government initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of health care, the u.s. congress and state legislatures will likely continue to focus on health care reform, the cost of prescription pharmaceuticals and on the reform of the medicare and medicaid systems. while we cannot predict whether any such legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, the announcement or adoption of these proposals could reduce the price that we or any of our collaborators or licensees receive for any products in the future. our ability to commercialize our products successfully will depend in part on the extent to which appropriate reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatment are obtained by governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as hmos. third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. also, the trend toward managed health care in the united states and the concurrent growth of organizations such as hmos, which could control or significantly influence the purchase of health care services and products, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may all result in lower prices for or rejection of our products. the cost containment measures that health care payors and providers are instituting and the effect of any health care reform could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. 23 table of contents as our drug discovery and development operations are conducted at our headquarters in wilmington, delaware, the loss of access to this facility would negatively impact our business. our facility in wilmington, delaware is our headquarters and is also where we conduct all of our drug discovery operations and research and development activities. our lease contains provisions that provide for its early termination upon the occurrence of certain events of default or upon a change of control. further, our headquarters facility is located in a large research and development complex that may be temporarily or permanently shutdown if certain environmental or other hazardous conditions were to occur within the complex. in addition, actions of activists opposed to aspects of pharmaceutical research may disrupt our experiments or our ability to access or use our facilities. the loss of access to or use of our wilmington, delaware, facility, either on a temporary or permanent basis, or early termination of our lease would result in an interruption of our business and, consequently, would adversely affect the advancement of our drug discovery and development programs and our overall business. we depend on key employees in a competitive market for skilled personnel, and the loss of the services of any of our key employees or our inability to attract and retain additional personnel would affect our ability to expand our drug discovery and development programs and achieve our objectives. we are highly dependent on the principal members of our management, operations and scientific staff. we experience intense competition for qualified personnel. our future success also depends in part on the continued service of our executive management team, key scientific and management personnel and our ability to recruit, train and retain essential scientific personnel for our drug discovery and development programs, including those who will be responsible for overseeing our preclinical testing and clinical trials as well as for the establishment of collaborations with other companies. if we lose the services of any of these people or if we are unable to recruit sufficient qualified personnel, our research and product development goals, including the identification and establishment of key collaborations, operations and marketing efforts could be delayed or curtailed. we do not maintain "key person" insurance on any of our employees. if we fail to manage our growth effectively, our ability to develop and commercialize products could suffer. we expect that if our clinical drug candidates continue to progress in development, we continue to build our development organization and our drug discovery efforts continue to generate drug candidates, we will require significant additional investment in personnel, management and resources. our ability to commercialize our drug candidates and to achieve our research and development objectives depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands and expand our internal organization, systems and controls to accommodate additional anticipated growth. if we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business could be harmed and our ability to execute our business strategy could suffer. if product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we could face substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products and our results of operations could be harmed. the clinical trials and marketing of medical products that are intended for human use entails an inherent risk of product liability. if any product that we or any of our collaborators or licensees develops causes or is alleged to cause injury or is found to be unsuitable during clinical trials, manufacturing or sale, we may be held liable. if we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities, including substantial damages to be paid to the plaintiffs and legal costs, or we may be required to limit commercialization of our products. our product liability insurance policy that provides coverage for liabilities arising from our clinical trials may not fully cover our potential liabilities. in addition, we may determine that we should increase our coverage upon the undertaking of new clinical trials, and this insurance may be prohibitively expensive to us or our collaborators or licensees and may not fully cover our potential liabilities. our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of pharmaceutical products we develop, alone or with our collaborators. additionally, 24 table of contents any product liability lawsuit could cause injury to our reputation, recall of products, participants to withdraw from clinical trials, and potential collaborators or licensees to seek other partners, any of which could impact our results of operations. because our activities involve the use of hazardous materials, we may be subject to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials that could be time consuming and costly. we are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the use, handling, storage and disposal of regulated substances and the health and safety of our employees. our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous and radioactive materials and biological waste resulting in the production of hazardous waste products. we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. if any injury or contamination results from our use or the use by our collaborators or licensees of these materials, we may be sued and our liability may exceed our insurance coverage and our total assets. further, we may be required to indemnify our collaborators or licensees against all damages and other liabilities arising out of our development activities or products produced in connection with these collaborations or licenses. compliance with the applicable environmental and workplace laws and regulations is expensive. future changes to environmental, health, workplace and safety laws could cause us to incur additional expense or may restrict our operations or impair our research, development and production efforts. risks relating to our financial results we expect to incur losses in the future and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. we had net losses from inception in 1991 through 1996 and in 1999 through 2008. because of those losses, we had an accumulated deficit of $1.2 billion as of december 31, 2008. we will continue to spend significant amounts on our efforts to discover and develop drugs. as a result, we expect to continue to incur losses in 2009 and in future periods as well. we anticipate that our drug discovery and development efforts and related expenditures will increase as we focus on the studies, including preclinical tests and clinical trials prior to seeking regulatory approval, that are required before we can sell a drug product. the development of drug products will require us to spend significant funds on research, development, testing, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing and marketing. to date, we do not have any drug products that have generated revenues and we cannot assure you that we will generate revenues from the drug candidates that we license or develop for several years, if ever. we cannot be certain whether or when we will achieve profitability because of the significant uncertainties relating to our ability to generate commercially successful drug products. even if we were successful in obtaining regulatory approvals for manufacturing and commercializing a drug candidate, we expect that we will continue to incur losses if our drug products do not generate significant revenues. if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability. we will need additional capital in the future. the capital markets may not permit us to raise additional capital at the time that we require it, which could result in limitations on our research and development or commercialization efforts or the loss of certain of our rights in our technologies or drug candidates. our future funding requirements will depend on many factors and we anticipate that we will need to raise additional capital to fund our business plan and research and development efforts going-forward. additional factors that may affect our future funding requirements include: any changes in the breadth of our research and development programs; the results of research and development, preclinical testing and clinical trials conducted by us or our future collaborative partners or licensees, if any; 25 table of contents the acquisition of technologies, if any; our ability to maintain and establish new corporate relationships and research collaborations; competing technological and market developments; the amount of revenues generated from our business activities, if any; the time and costs involved in filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent and intellectual property claims; the receipt of contingent licensing or milestone fees or royalties on product sales from our current or future collaborative and license arrangements, if established; and the timing of regulatory approvals, if any. if we require additional capital at a time when investment in companies such as ours, or in the marketplace generally, is limited due to the then prevailing market or other conditions, we may have to scale back our operations, eliminate one or more of our research or development programs, or attempt to obtain funds by entering into an agreement with a collaborative partner that would result in terms that are not favorable to us or relinquishing our rights in certain of our proprietary technologies or drug candidates. for example, we recently decided not to advance compounds from our c-met and ido programs into phase i clinical trials until additional funding is obtained. if we are unable to raise funds at the time that we desire or at any time thereafter on acceptable terms, we may not be able to continue to develop our potential drug products. the sale of equity or additional convertible debt securities in the future may be dilutive to our stockholders, and debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that could restrict our operations or our ability to incur further indebtedness. our marketable securities are subject to certain risks that could adversely affect our overall financial position. we invest our cash in accordance with an established internal policy and customarily in instruments which historically have been highly liquid and carried relatively low risk. however, with recent credit market conditions, similar types of investments have experienced losses in value or liquidity issues which differ from their historical pattern. should a portion of our marketable securities lose value or have their liquidity impaired, it could adversely affect our overall financial position by imperiling our ability to fund our operations and forcing us to seek additional financing sooner than we would otherwise. such financing, if available, may not be available on commercially attractive terms. our current revenues are derived from collaborations and from licensing our intellectual property. if we are unable to achieve milestones, develop products or renew or enter into new collaborations, our revenues may decrease, and future milestone and royalty payments from our gene and genomics-related intellectual property may not contribute significantly to revenues for several years, and may never result in revenues. we derived substantially all of our revenues for the year ended december 31, 2008 from our collaborative research and license agreement with pfizer and from licensing our intellectual property to others. we may be unable to enter into additional collaborative agreements. revenues from research and development collaborations depend upon continuation of the collaborations, the achievement of milestones and royalties we earn from any future products developed from our research. if we are unable to successfully achieve milestones or our collaborators fail to develop successful products, we will not earn the revenues contemplated under our collaborative agreements. part of our prior strategy was to license to our database customers and to other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies our know-how and patent rights associated with the information we have generated in the creation of our proprietary databases, for use in the discovery and development of potential pharmaceutical, diagnostic or other products. any potential product that is the subject of such a license will require several years of further 26 table of contents development, clinical trials and regulatory approval before commercialization, all of which is beyond our control, and possibly beyond the control of our licensee. these licensees may not develop the potential product if they do not devote the necessary resources or decide that they do not want to expend the resources to do the clinical trials necessary to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals. therefore, milestone or royalty payments from these licenses may not contribute to our revenues for several years, if at all. we have decided to discontinue some of our gene and genomics-related patent prosecution and maintenance, and may in the future decide to discontinue additional gene and genomics-related patent prosecution and maintenance, which could limit our ability to receive license-based revenues from our gene and genomics-related patent portfolio. we have a large amount of debt and our debt service obligations may prevent us from taking actions that we would otherwise consider to be in our best interests. as of december 31, 2008, the aggregate principal amount of total consolidated debt was $421.8 million and our stockholders' deficit was $220.8 million. the documents pursuant to which our outstanding convertible senior and subordinated notes were issued do not limit the issuance of additional indebtedness. our substantial leverage could have significant negative consequences for our future operations, including: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital and research and development expenditures, and general corporate purposes; requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our expected cash flow or our existing cash to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our cash available for other purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures and research and development expenditures; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; or placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources; in the past five years, we have had negative cash flow from operations. we likely will not generate sufficient cash flow from our operations in the future to enable us to meet our anticipated fixed charges, including our debt service requirements with respect to our outstanding convertible senior notes and convertible subordinated notes. as of december 31, 2008, $151.8 million aggregate principal amount of our 3 1 / 2 % convertible senior notes due 2011 was outstanding. our annual interest payments, beginning in 2007, for the 3 1 / 2 % convertible senior notes through 2010, assuming none of these notes are converted, redeemed, repurchased or exchanged, are $5.3 million, and an additional $2.6 million in interest is payable in 2011. as of december 31, 2008, $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 3 1 / 2 % convertible subordinated notes due 2011 was outstanding. our annual interest payments for the 3 1 / 2 % convertible subordinated notes through 2010, assuming none of these notes are converted, redeemed, repurchased or exchanged, are $8.8 million, and an additional $4.4 million in interest is payable in 2011. as of december 31, 2008, $20.0 million aggregate principal amount of the non-interest bearing convertible subordinated notes held by pfizer was outstanding, of which $10.0 million is due in 2013 and $10.0 million is due in 2014. if we are unable to generate cash from our operations or raise additional cash through financings sufficient to meet these obligations, we will need to use existing cash or liquidate marketable securities in order to fund these obligations, which may delay or curtail our research, development and commercialization programs. we may from time to time seek to repurchase or refinance our outstanding convertible notes that mature in february 2011. repurchases might occur through cash purchases and/or exchanges for other securities in open market transactions, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. such repurchases or exchanges, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity 27 table of contents requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. the amounts involved in any such transactions, individually or in the aggregate, may be material. any issuance of equity securities in exchange for our outstanding convertible notes may be dilutive to our stockholders. risks relating to intellectual property and legal matters if we are subject to arbitration, litigation and infringement claims, they could be costly and disrupt our drug discovery and development efforts. the technology that we use to make and develop our drug products, the technology that we incorporate in our products, and the products we are developing may be subject to claims that they infringe the patents or proprietary rights of others. the success of our drug discovery and development efforts will also depend on our ability to develop new compounds, drugs and technologies without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. we are aware of patents and patent applications filed in certain countries claiming intellectual property relating to some of our drug discovery targets and product candidates. while the validity of issued patents, patentability of pending patent applications and applicability of any of them to our programs are uncertain, if any of these patents are asserted against us or if we choose to license any of these patents, our ability to commercialize our products could be harmed or the potential return to us from any product that may be successfully commercialized could be diminished. from time to time we have received, and we may in the future receive, notices from third parties offering licenses to technology or alleging patent, trademark, or copyright infringement, claims regarding trade secrets or other contract claims. receipt of these notices could result in significant costs as a result of the diversion of the attention of management from our drug discovery and development efforts. parties sending these notices may have brought and in the future may bring litigation against us or seek arbitration relating to contract claims. we may be involved in future lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights or contract violations. in addition, litigation or other legal proceedings may be necessary to: assert claims of infringement; enforce our patents or trademarks; protect our trade secrets or know-how; or determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. we may be unsuccessful in defending or pursuing these lawsuits, claims or other legal proceedings. regardless of the outcome, litigation or other legal proceedings can be very costly and can divert management's efforts. for example, we settled patent litigation with invitrogen corporation in 2006. we incurred significant expenses related to this litigation and, as part of the settlement, paid invitrogen $3.4 million. an adverse determination may subject us to significant liabilities or require us or our collaborators or licensees to seek licenses to other parties' patents or proprietary rights. we or our collaborators or licensees may also be restricted or prevented from manufacturing or selling a drug or other product that we or they develop. further, we or our future collaborators or licensees may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. if we are unable to develop non-infringing technology or license technology on a timely basis or on reasonable terms, our business could be harmed. we may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our proprietary information, which may result in its unauthorized use, a loss of revenue under a collaboration agreement or loss of sales to generic versions of our products or otherwise reduce our ability to compete in developing and commercializing products. our business and competitive position depends in significant part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology, including any drug products that we create. despite our efforts to protect this 28 table of contents information, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. for example, one of our collaborators may disclose proprietary information pertaining to our drug discovery efforts. in addition, while we have filed numerous patent applications with respect to our product candidates in the united states and in foreign countries, our patent applications may fail to result in issued patents. in addition, because patent applications can take several years to issue as patents, there may be pending patent applications of others that may later issue as patents that cover some aspect of our drug candidates. our existing patents and any future patents we may obtain may not be broad enough to protect our products or all of the potential uses of our products, or otherwise prevent others from developing competing products or technologies. in addition, our patents may be challenged and invalidated or may fail to provide us with any competitive advantages if, for example, others were first to invent or first to file a patent application for the technologies and products covered by our patents. additionally, when we do not control the prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of certain important intellectual property, such as a drug compound in-licensed to us or subject to a collaboration with a third party, the protection of the intellectual property rights may not be in our hands. if we do not control the intellectual property rights in-licensed to us with respect to a compound and the entity that controls the intellectual property rights does not adequately protect those rights, our rights may be impaired, which may impact our ability to develop, market and commercialize the in-licensed compound. our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate, and our competitors may: independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, products and techniques; otherwise gain access to our proprietary information; or design around patents issued to us or our other intellectual property. we pursue a policy of having our employees, consultants and advisors execute proprietary information and invention agreements when they begin working for us. however, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. if we fail to maintain trade secret and patent protection, our potential, future revenues may be decreased. if the effective term of our patents is decreased due to changes in the united states patent laws or if we need to refile some of our patent applications, the value of our patent portfolio and the revenues we derive from it may be decreased. the value of our patents depends in part on their duration. a shorter period of patent protection could lessen the value of our rights under any patents that we obtain and may decrease the revenues we derive from our patents. the united states patent laws were amended in 1995 to change the term of patent protection from 17 years from patent issuance to 20 years from the earliest effective filing date of the application. because the time from filing to issuance of biotechnology applications may be more than three years depending on the subject matter, a 20-year patent term from the filing date may result in substantially shorter patent protection. also, we may need to refile some of our applications filed before 1995 that claim large numbers of genes or other additional subject matter and, in these situations, the patent term will be measured from the date of the earliest priority application. this would shorten our period of patent exclusivity and may decrease the revenues that we might derive from the patents. international patent protection is particularly uncertain and costly, and if we are involved in opposition proceedings in foreign countries, we may have to expend substantial sums and management resources. biotechnology and pharmaceutical patent law outside the united states is even more uncertain and costly than in the united states and is currently undergoing review and revision in many countries. further, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as united states laws. for example, certain countries do not grant patent claims that are directed to the 29 table of contents treatment of humans. we may participate in opposition proceedings to determine the validity of our foreign patents or our competitors' foreign patents, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our investments in marketable securities, which are composed primarily of investment-grade corporate bonds, u.s. government agency debt securities, mortgage and asset-backed securities and money market funds, are subject to default, changes in credit rating and changes in market value. these investments are also subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market rate interest rates increase. as of december 31, 2008, cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term marketable securities were $217.8 million. due to the nature of these investments, if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as of december 31, 2008 the decline in fair value would not be material. 46 table of contentsrisk factors 19 risk factors risks relating to our business we are building our drug discovery, development and commercialization operations and we may be unsuccessful in our efforts. we are building our drug discovery, development and commercialization operations. our ability to discover, develop and commercialize pharmaceutical products will depend on our ability to: hire and retain key scientific employees; identify high quality therapeutic targets; identify potential drug candidates; develop products internally or license drug candidates from others; identify and enroll suitable human subjects, either in the united states or abroad, for our clinical trials; complete laboratory testing and clinical trials on humans; obtain and maintain necessary intellectual property rights to our products; obtain and maintain necessary regulatory approvals for our products, both in the united states and abroad; enter into arrangements with third parties to provide services or to manufacture our products on our behalf; deploy sales and marketing resources effectively or enter into arrangements with third parties to provide these functions; obtain appropriate coverage and reimbursement levels for the cost of our products from governmental authorities, private health insurers and other third party payors lease facilities at reasonable rates to support our growth; and enter into arrangements with third parties to license and commercialize our products. we have limited experience with the activities listed above and may not be successful in discovering, developing, or commercializing drug products. our efforts to discover and develop potential drug candidates may not lead to the discovery, development, commercialization or marketing of drug products. none of our drug candidates has, to date, been submitted for approval for sale in the united states or any foreign market. discovery and development of potential drug candidates are expensive and time-consuming, and we do not know if our efforts will lead to discovery of any drug candidates that can be successfully developed and marketed. if our efforts do not lead to the discovery of a suitable drug candidate, we may be unable to grow our clinical pipeline or we may be unable to enter into agreements with collaborators who are willing to develop our drug candidates. of the compounds that we identify as potential drug products or that we in-license from other companies, only a few, if any, are likely to lead to successful drug development programs. for example, in 2006, we discontinued the development of dfc, which was at the time our most advanced drug candidate and was in phase iib clinical trials. prior to discontinuation of the dfc program, we expended a significant amount of effort and money on that program. we have also licensed to other parties certain rights to our jak and c-met inhibitor compounds and our portfolio of ccr2 antagonist compounds. we have no or limited control over the further clinical development of these compounds. 19 table of contents the success of our drug discovery and development efforts may depend on our ability to find suitable collaborators to fully exploit our capabilities. if we are unable to establish collaborations or if these future collaborations are unsuccessful in the development and commercialization of our compounds, our research, development and commercialization efforts may be unsuccessful, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. an important element of our business strategy is to enter into collaborative or license arrangements with other parties, such as our collaborations with novartis and lilly for our jak inhibitors, under which we license our drug candidates to those parties for development and commercialization. we are evaluating strategic relationships with respect to several of our other programs and may enter into an agreement with respect to one or more of these programs in the future. however, these arrangements and negotiations are complex and time consuming and there can be no assurance that we will reach agreement with a collaborator or licensee with respect to any of these programs. because collaboration and license arrangements are complex to negotiate, we may not be successful in our attempts to establish these arrangements. also, we may not have drug compounds that are desirable to other parties, or we may be unwilling to license a drug compound because the party interested in it is a competitor. the terms of any such arrangements that we establish may not be favorable to us. alternatively, potential collaborators may decide against entering into an agreement with us because of our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position or for scientific, commercial or other reasons. if we are not able to establish collaborative or license arrangements, we may not be able to develop and commercialize a drug product, which would adversely affect our business and our revenues. in order for any of these collaboration or license arrangements to be successful, we must first identify potential collaborators or licensees whose capabilities complement and integrate well with ours. we may rely on these arrangements for not only financial resources, but also for expertise or economies of scale that we expect to need in the future relating to clinical trials, manufacturing, sales and marketing, and for licenses to technology rights. however, it is likely that we will not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators or licensees devote to our programs or potential products. if our collaborators or licensees prove difficult to work with, are less skilled than we originally expected, do not devote adequate resources to the program, or do not agree with our approach to development or manufacturing of the potential product, the relationship will not be successful. if a business combination involving a collaborator or licensees and a third party were to occur, the effect could be to diminish, terminate or cause delays in development of a potential product. we depend on our collaboration and license arrangements for the development and commercialization of our licensed compounds and product candidates. conflicts may arise between our collaborators and licensees and us, which may adversely affect our business. we have entered into collaboration and license arrangements to support development and commercialization of certain of our product candidates. we have entered into a collaboration with novartis for rights in certain indications outside of the united states to our jak oncology program with incb18424 and specified backups, as well as worldwide rights to our c-met inhibitor compound incb28060. we have entered into a collaboration with lilly for worldwide rights to our jak inflammation and autoimmune program with incb28050 and specified back-ups, and with pfizer for worldwide rights to our portfolio of ccr2 antagonist compounds. although our collaborators and licensees are primarily responsible for the development and commercialization of the compounds and product candidates we have licensed to them, we cannot control the amount and timing of resources they may devote to the development of these compounds. if our collaborators and licensees do not devote adequate resources to the program, or choose not to pursue the development of our compounds and product candidates, our business could be adversely affected. 20 table of contents conflicts may arise with our collaborators and licensees if they pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products either on their own or in collaboration with others as a means for developing treatments for the diseases that we have targeted. competing products and product opportunities may lead our collaborators and licensees to withdraw their support for our product candidates. any failure of our collaborators and licensees to perform their obligations under our agreements with them could negatively impact the development of our compounds and product candidates, lead to our loss of potential revenues from product sales and milestones and delay our achievement, if any, of profitability. additionally, conflicts may arise if there is a dispute about the achievement and payment of a milestone amount or the ownership of intellectual property that is developed during the course of a collaborative relationship. our existing collaborative and license agreements can be terminated by our collaborators and licensees for convenience, among other circumstances. if any of our collaborators or licensees terminates its agreement with us, or terminates its rights with respect to certain indications or compounds, we may not be able to find a new collaborator for them, and our business could be adversely affected. should an agreement be terminated before we have realized the benefits of the collaboration or license, our reputation could be harmed, we may not obtain revenues that we anticipated receiving, and our business could be adversely affected. although we obtained a special protocol assessment for our jak inhibitor for myelofibrosis, a special protocol assessment does not guarantee any particular outcome from regulatory review, including any regulatory approval. we have obtained a special protocol assessment, or spa, for the registration trial for our jak inhibitor for the treatment of myelofibrosis in the united states. the spa process allows for food and drug administration, or fda, evaluation of a clinical trial protocol intended to form the primary basis of an efficacy claim in support of a new drug application, or nda, and provides a product sponsor with an agreement confirming that the design and size of the trial will be appropriate to form the primary basis of an efficacy claim for an nda if the trial is performed according to the spa. an spa is not a guarantee of approval, and we cannot be certain that the design of, or data collected from, the trial will be adequate to demonstrate safety and efficacy, or otherwise be sufficient to support regulatory approval. there can be no assurance that the terms of an spa will ultimately be binding on the fda, and the fda is not obligated to approve an nda, if any, even if the clinical outcome is positive. the fda retains significant latitude and discretion in interpreting the terms of an spa and the data and results from a clinical trial, and can require trial design changes if issues arise essential to determining safety or efficacy. in addition, data may subsequently become available that causes the fda to reconsider the previously agreed upon scope of review and the fda may have subsequent safety or efficacy concerns that override an spa, and we can give no assurance that as clinical trials proceed or as part of an nda review process, if any, the fda will determine that a previously approved spa is still valid. additionally, an spa may be changed only with written agreement of the fda, and any further changes we may propose to the protocol will remain subject to the fda's approval. the fda may not agree to any such amendment and, even if they agree, they may request other amendments to the trial design that could require additional cost and time, as well as increase the degree of difficulty in reaching clinical endpoints. as a result, even with an spa, we cannot be certain that the trial results will be found to be adequate to support an efficacy claim and product approval. we depend heavily on the success of our most advanced product candidates. we might not be able to commercialize any of our drug candidates successfully, and we may spend significant time and money attempting to do so. we have invested significant resources in the development of our most advanced product candidates. we have one drug candidate, incb18424, in phase iii clinical trials. we have a number of drug candidates in phase i and phase ii clinical trials. our ability to generate product revenues will depend on the 21 table of contents successful development and eventual commercialization of our most advanced product candidates. we, or our collaborators or licensees, may decide to discontinue development of any or all of our drug candidates at any time for commercial, scientific or other reasons. we discontinued development of dfc in april 2006 for safety reasons. in march 2008, we announced that we would not advance our lead ccr5 antagonist into phase iib trials and that we were seeking to out-license this program. if a product is developed, but is not marketed, we may have spent significant amounts of time and money on it, which would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. even if a drug candidate that we develop receives regulatory approval, we may decide not to commercialize it if we determine that commercialization of that product would require more money and time than we are willing to invest. for example, drugs that receive approval are subject to post-regulatory surveillance and may have to be withdrawn from the market if previously unknown side effects occur. at this point, the regulatory agencies may require additional clinical trials or testing. once a drug is marketed, if it causes side effects, the drug product may be recalled or may be subject to reformulation, additional studies, changes in labeling, warnings to the public and negative publicity. as a result, we may not continue to commercialize a product even though it has obtained regulatory approval. further, we may decide not to continue to commercialize a product if the market does not accept the product because it is too expensive or because third parties such as insurance companies or medicare have not approved it for substantial reimbursement. in addition, we may decide not to continue to commercialize a product if another product comes on the market that is as effective but has fewer side effects. there is also a risk that competitors may develop similar or superior products or have proprietary rights that preclude us from ultimately marketing our products. if we do not develop effective sales and marketing capabilities or establish third-party relationships for the commercialization of our drug candidates, we will not be able to successfully commercialize any drug candidates that obtain regulatory approval, and we may incur significant additional costs or difficulties in doing so. we do not have experience selling or marketing drug products or with respect to pricing and obtaining adequate third-party reimbursement for drugs. we will need to either develop sales and marketing capabilities or enter into arrangements with third parties to sell and market our drug candidates, if they are approved for sale by regulatory authorities. under our collaboration and license agreement with novartis, we have retained commercialization rights to incb18424 in the united states. in anticipation of the regulatory approval of incb18424 for myelofibrosis, we have started to build the sales and marketing and operational infrastructure to support commercialization. this will require substantial efforts and significant management and financial resources. we will need such an infrastructure to market any of our drug candidates for which we have retained commercialization rights, if they receive regulatory approval. we will need to devote significant effort and investment, in particular, to recruiting individuals with experience in the sales and marketing of pharmaceutical products. competition for personnel with these skills is very high, and we will be competing with companies that are currently marketing successful drugs. we may not be able to successfully develop our own sales and marketing capabilities for incb18424 in the united states in order to support an effective launch of incb18424 if it is approved for sale. if we do not obtain regulatory approval for incb18424 for myelofibrosis, we will have incurred significant expenses to build this commercialization infrastructure. we have granted commercialization rights to other pharmaceutical companies with respect to certain of our drug candidates in specific geographic locations, and intend to seek other collaborative or licensing arrangements with respect to other of our drug candidates. to the extent that our collaborators have commercial rights to our drug candidates, any revenues we receive from any approved drugs will depend primarily on the sales and marketing efforts of others. we do not know whether we will be able to enter into additional third-party sales and marketing arrangements with respect to any of our other drug candidates on acceptable terms, if at all, or whether we will be able to leverage the sales and marketing capabilities we intend to build for incb18424 for myelofibrosis in order to market and sell any other drug candidate if it is approved for sale. 22 table of contents if we fail to enter into additional licensing agreements or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our business and operations might be adversely affected. in addition to establishing collaborative or license arrangements under which other parties license our drug candidates for development and commercialization, we may explore opportunities to develop our clinical pipeline by in-licensing drug compounds that fit within our expertise and research and development capabilities. we may be unable to enter into any additional in-licensing agreements because suitable product candidates that are within our expertise may not be available to us on terms that are acceptable to us or because competitors with greater resources seek to in-license the same product candidates. product candidates that we would like to develop may not be available to us because they are controlled by competitors who are unwilling to license the rights to the drug compound or candidate to us. in addition, we may enter into license agreements that are unsuccessful and our business and operations might be adversely affected by the termination of a drug candidate and termination and winding down of the related license agreement. we may also need to license drug delivery or other technology in order to continue to develop our drug candidate pipeline. if we are unable to enter into additional agreements to license drug candidates, drug delivery technology or other technology or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our research and development efforts could be adversely affected. any drug products that we bring to the market, even if they receive marketing approval, may not gain market acceptance by physicians, patients, healthcare payors and others in the medical community. even if we are successful in gaining regulatory approval of our products, we may not generate significant product revenues and we may not become profitable if these drug products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance. physicians will not recommend our drug products until clinical data or other factors demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our drug products as compared to other alternative treatments. even if the clinical safety and efficacy of our drug products is established, physicians may elect not to prescribe these drug products for a variety of reasons including the reimbursement policies of government and other third-party payors and the effectiveness of our competitors in marketing their products. market acceptance of our drug products, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including: the willingness and ability of patients and the healthcare community to use our products; the ability to manufacture our drug products in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality and to offer our drug products for sale at competitive prices; the perception of patients and the healthcare community, including third-party payors, regarding the safety, efficacy and benefits of our drug products compared to those of competing products or therapies; the label and promotional claims allowed by the fda; the pricing and reimbursement of our drug products relative to existing treatments; and marketing and distribution support for our drug products. we have limited expertise with and capacity to conduct preclinical testing and clinical trials, and our resulting dependence on other parties could result in delays in and additional costs for our drug development efforts. we have limited experience with clinical trials, formulation, manufacturing and commercialization of drug products. we also have limited internal resources and capacity to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials. as part of our development strategy, we intend to hire clinical research organizations, or cros, to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials for drug candidates. if the cros that we hire to 23 table of contents perform our preclinical testing and clinical trials or our collaborators or licensees do not meet deadlines, do not follow proper procedures, or a conflict arises between us and our cros, our preclinical testing and clinical trials may take longer than expected, may be delayed or may be terminated. if we were forced to find a replacement entity to perform any of our preclinical testing or clinical trials, we may not be able to find a suitable entity on favorable terms, or at all. even if we were able to find another company to perform a preclinical test or clinical trial, the delay in the test or trial may result in significant additional expenditures. events such as these may result in delays in our obtaining regulatory approval for our drug candidates or our ability to commercialize our products and could result in increased expenditures that would adversely affect our operating results. in addition, for some of our drug candidates, we have contracted with collaborators to advance those candidates through later-stage, more expensive clinical trials, rather than invest our own resources to perform these clinical trials. under the terms of our agreements with these collaborators, we have no or limited control over the conduct of these clinical trials, and in any event we are subject to the risks associated with depending on collaborators to develop these drug candidates. if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval to develop and market products in the united states and foreign jurisdictions, we will not be permitted to manufacture or commercialize products resulting from our research. in order to manufacture and commercialize drug products in the united states, our drug candidates will have to obtain regulatory approval from the food and drug administration, or the fda. satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years. to obtain regulatory approval, we must first show that our drug products are safe and effective for target indications through preclinical testing (animal testing) and clinical trials (human testing). preclinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes, and we do not know whether the fda will allow us to undertake clinical trials of any potential drug products in addition to our compounds currently in clinical trials. completion of clinical trials may take several years and failure may occur at any stage of testing. the length of time required varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product candidate. interim results of a preclinical test or clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results, and acceptable results in early clinical trials may not be repeated in later clinical trials. for example, a drug candidate that is successful at the preclinical level may cause harmful or dangerous side effects when tested at the clinical level. our rate of commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including: the high degree of risk associated with drug development; our inability to formulate or manufacture sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials; variability in the number and types of patients available for each study; difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, resulting in incomplete data; unforeseen safety issues or side effects; poor or unanticipated effectiveness of drug candidates during the clinical trials; or government or regulatory delays. data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretation, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. a number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving promising results in earlier clinical trials. in addition, regulatory authorities may refuse or delay approval as a result of other factors, such as changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development 24 table of contents and regulatory agency review. for example, the fda has in the past required and could in the future require that we conduct additional trials of any of our product candidates, which would result in delays. due, in part, to the early stage of our drug candidate research and development process, we cannot predict whether regulatory approval will be obtained for any product we develop. none of our drug candidates has, to date, been submitted for approval for sale in the united states of any foreign market. we have licensed to novartis rights to incb18424 in certain indications outside of the united states and worldwide rights to c-met and licensed to lilly worldwide rights to incb28050. we have also licensed to pfizer our portfolio of ccr2 antagonist compounds. we have no or limited control over the further clinical development of any compounds we licensed to these collaborators. compounds developed by us, alone or with other parties, may not prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials and may not meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements needed to receive marketing approval. if regulatory approval of a product is granted, this approval will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which the product is demonstrated through clinical trials to be safe and effective. failure to obtain regulatory approval would delay or prevent us from commercializing products. outside the united states, our ability to market a product is contingent upon receiving a marketing authorization from the appropriate regulatory authorities. this foreign regulatory approval process typically includes all of the risks associated with the fda approval process described above and may also include additional risks. the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country and may require us to perform additional testing and expend additional resources. approval by the fda does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or by the fda. we face significant competition for our drug discovery and development efforts, and if we do not compete effectively, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated. the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. our drug discovery and development efforts may target diseases and conditions that are already subject to existing therapies or that are being developed by our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, more experience in completing preclinical testing and clinical trials, and formulation, marketing and manufacturing capabilities. as a result of these resources, our competitors may develop drug products that render our products obsolete or noncompetitive by developing more effective drugs or by developing their products more efficiently. our ability to develop competitive products would be limited if our competitors succeeded in obtaining regulatory approvals for drug candidates more rapidly than we were able to or in obtaining patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limited our drug development efforts. any drugs resulting from our research and development efforts, or from our joint efforts with collaborators or licensees, might not be able to compete successfully with our competitors' existing and future products, or obtain regulatory approval in the united states or elsewhere. our reliance on other parties to manufacture our drug candidates could result in a short supply of the drugs, delays in clinical trials or drug development, increased costs, and withdrawal or denial of a regulatory authority's approval. we do not currently operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of our drug candidates. we currently rely on third parties for the manufacture of both the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or api, and finished drug product of our drug candidates for clinical trials. in addition, we expect to continue to rely on third parties for the manufacture of commercial supplies of api and finished drug product for any drugs that we successfully develop. for most of our drug candidates, including our lead drug candidate incb18424, we rely on one third party to manufacture the api, another to make finished drug product and a third to package and label the finished product. the fda requires that the 25 table of contents api and finished product for each of our drug products be manufactured according to its current good manufacturing practices, or cgmp, regulations and regulatory authorities in other countries have similar requirements. there are only a limited number of manufacturers that comply with these requirements. if the third parties that manufacture our drug candidates are not compliant with the applicable regulatory requirements, the fda or a foreign regulatory authority may require us to halt ongoing clinical trials or not approve our application to market our drug products. failure to comply with cgmp and the applicable regulatory requirements of other countries in the manufacture of our products could result in the fda or foreign regulatory authority halting our clinical trials, withdrawing or denying regulatory approval of our drug product, enforcing product recalls or other enforcement actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of our drug candidates or any drug products we may develop if our designated manufacturers do not have the capacity or capability to manufacture our products according to our schedule and specifications. in addition, we may not be able to arrange for our drug candidates or any drug products that we may develop to be manufactured by one of these parties on reasonable terms, if at all. also, raw materials that may be required to manufacture any products we develop may only be available from a limited number of suppliers. generally, we have only a single source that is qualified to supply the api and finished product of our drug candidates. if any of these single source suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to supply us with api or finished product that complies with applicable regulatory requirements, we could incur significant delays in our clinical trials or interruption of commercial supply which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are currently seeking to qualify a second source of supply for the api for our lead drug candidate, incb18424, however, there is no assurance that we will be able to identify and qualify a second source of supply for incb18424 or any of our other drug candidates or drug products on a timely basis. if we have promised delivery of a new product and are unable to meet the delivery requirement due to manufacturing difficulties, our development programs would be delayed, and we may have to expend additional sums in order to ensure that manufacturing capacity is available when we need it even if we do not use all of the manufacturing capacity. this expense would adversely affect our operating results. manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, especially in scaling up initial production. these problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control and assurance and shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. in order to obtain approval of our products, including incb18424, by the fda and foreign regulatory agencies, we need to complete testing on both the api and on the finished product in the packaging we propose for commercial sales. this includes testing of stability, identification of impurities and testing of other product specifications by validated test methods. in addition, we will be required to consistently produce the api in commercial quantities and of specified quality on a repeated basis and document our ability to do so. this requirement is referred to as process validation. with respect to incb18424, although we have manufactured the product at commercial scale, we have started, but not yet completed, this process validation requirement. if the required testing or process validation is delayed or produces unfavorable results, we may not obtain approval to launch the product or product launch may be delayed. we may not be able to adequately manage and oversee the manufacturers we choose, they may not perform as agreed or they may terminate their agreements with us. foreign manufacturing approval processes typically include all of the risks associated with the fda approval process for manufacturing and may also include additional risks. 26 table of contents health care reform measures could impact the pricing and profitability of pharmaceuticals, and adversely affect the commercial viability of our product candidates. our ability to generate revenues will be diminished if we are unable to obtain acceptable prices or an adequate level of reimbursement from payors of health care costs. the continuing efforts of government and insurance companies, health maintenance organizations (hmos) and other payors of health care costs to contain or reduce costs of health care may affect our future revenues and profitability, and the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers, collaborators and licensees and the availability of capital. for example, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. in the united states, given recent federal and state government initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of health care, the u.s. congress and state legislatures will likely continue to focus on health care reform, the cost of prescription pharmaceuticals and on the reform of the medicare and medicaid systems. while we cannot predict whether any such legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, the announcement or adoption of reform measures could adversely impact the pricing of health care products and services and the amount of reimbursement available from governmental agencies or other third party payors, which could reduce the price that we or any of our collaborators or licensees receive for any products in the future. our ability to commercialize our products successfully will depend in part on the extent to which appropriate reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatment are obtained by governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as hmos. third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. also, the trend toward managed health care in the united states and the concurrent growth of organizations such as hmos, which could control or significantly influence the purchase of health care services and products, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may all result in lower prices for or rejection of our products. our products may not be considered cost-effective, and coverage and reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis. the cost containment measures that health care payors and providers are instituting and the effect of any health care reform could materially and adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. as our drug discovery and development operations are conducted at our headquarters in wilmington, delaware, the loss of access to this facility would negatively impact our business. our facility in wilmington, delaware is our headquarters and is also where we conduct all of our drug discovery operations and research and development activities. our lease contains provisions that provide for its early termination upon the occurrence of certain events of default or upon a change of control. further, our headquarters facility is located in a large research and development complex that may be temporarily or permanently shutdown if certain environmental or other hazardous conditions were to occur within the complex. in addition, actions of activists opposed to aspects of pharmaceutical research may disrupt our experiments or our ability to access or use our facilities. the loss of access to or use of our wilmington, delaware, facility, either on a temporary or permanent basis, or early termination of our lease would result in an interruption of our business and, consequently, would adversely affect the advancement of our drug discovery and development programs and our overall business. 27 table of contents we depend on key employees in a competitive market for skilled personnel, and the loss of the services of any of our key employees or our inability to attract and retain additional personnel would affect our ability to expand our drug discovery and development programs and achieve our objectives. we are highly dependent on the principal members of our management, operations and scientific staff. we experience intense competition for qualified personnel. our future success also depends in part on the continued service of our executive management team, key scientific and management personnel and our ability to recruit, train and retain essential personnel for our drug discovery and development programs, including those who will be responsible for overseeing our preclinical testing and clinical trials, for the establishment of collaborations with other companies and for our marketing, medical, and operational infrastructure to support commercialization marketing efforts. if we lose the services of any of these people or if we are unable to recruit sufficient qualified personnel, our research and product development goals, including the identification and establishment of key collaborations, operations and marketing efforts could be delayed or curtailed. we do not maintain "key person" insurance on any of our employees. if we fail to manage our growth effectively, our ability to develop and commercialize products could suffer. we expect that if our clinical drug candidates continue to progress in development, we continue to build our development, medical and marketing organizations and our drug discovery efforts continue to generate drug candidates, we will require significant additional investment in personnel, management and resources. our ability to commercialize our drug candidates and to achieve our research and development objectives depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands and expand our internal organization, systems and controls to accommodate additional anticipated growth. if we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business could be harmed and our ability to execute our business strategy could suffer. if product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we could face substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products and our results of operations could be harmed. the clinical trials and marketing of medical products that are intended for human use entails an inherent risk of product liability. if any product that we or any of our collaborators or licensees develops causes or is alleged to cause injury or is found to be unsuitable during clinical trials, manufacturing or sale, we may be held liable. if we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities, including substantial damages to be paid to the plaintiffs and legal costs, or we may be required to limit commercialization of our products. our product liability insurance policy that provides coverage for liabilities arising from our clinical trials may not fully cover our potential liabilities. in addition, we may determine that we should increase our coverage upon the undertaking of new clinical trials, and this insurance may be prohibitively expensive to us or our collaborators or licensees and may not fully cover our potential liabilities. our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of pharmaceutical products we develop, alone or with our collaborators. additionally, any product liability lawsuit could cause injury to our reputation, recall of products, participants to withdraw from clinical trials, and potential collaborators or licensees to seek other partners, any of which could impact our results of operations. because our activities involve the use of hazardous materials, we may be subject to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials that could be time consuming and costly. we are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the use, handling, storage and disposal of regulated substances and the health and safety of our employees. our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous and radioactive materials and biological waste resulting in the production of hazardous waste products. we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury 28 table of contents from these materials. if any injury or contamination results from our use or the use by our collaborators or licensees of these materials, we may be sued and our liability may exceed our insurance coverage and our total assets. further, we may be required to indemnify our collaborators or licensees against all damages and other liabilities arising out of our development activities or products produced in connection with these collaborations or licenses. compliance with the applicable environmental and workplace laws and regulations is expensive. future changes to environmental, health, workplace and safety laws could cause us to incur additional expense or may restrict our operations or impair our research, development and production efforts. risks relating to our financial results we expect to incur losses in the future and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. we had net losses from inception in 1991 through 1996 and in 1999 through 2009. because of those losses, we had an accumulated deficit of $1.4 billion as of december 31, 2009. we will continue to spend significant amounts on our efforts to discover and develop drugs. as a result, we expect to continue to incur losses in 2010 and in future periods as well. we anticipate that our drug discovery and development efforts and related expenditures will increase as we focus on the studies, including preclinical tests and clinical trials prior to seeking regulatory approval, that are required before we can sell a drug product. the development of drug products will require us to spend significant funds on research, development, testing, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing and marketing. to date, we do not have any drug products that have generated revenues and we cannot assure you that we will generate revenues from the drug candidates that we license or develop for several years, if ever. we cannot be certain whether or when we will achieve profitability because of the significant uncertainties relating to our ability to generate commercially successful drug products. even if we were successful in obtaining regulatory approvals for manufacturing and commercializing a drug candidate, we expect that we will continue to incur losses if our drug products do not generate significant revenues. if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability. we will need additional capital in the future. the capital markets may not permit us to raise additional capital at the time that we require it, which could result in limitations on our research and development or commercialization efforts or the loss of certain of our rights in our technologies or drug candidates. our future funding requirements will depend on many factors and we anticipate that we will need to raise additional capital to fund our business plan and research and development efforts going-forward and to repay our indebtedness. additional factors that may affect our future funding requirements include: any changes in the breadth of our research and development programs; the results of research and development, preclinical testing and clinical trials conducted by us or our future collaborators or licensees, if any; the acquisition of technologies, if any; our ability to maintain and establish new corporate relationships and research collaborations; competing technological and market developments; the amount of revenues generated from our business activities, if any; the time and costs involved in filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent and intellectual property claims; the receipt of contingent licensing or milestone fees or royalties on product sales from our current or future collaborative and license arrangements, if established; and 29 table of contents the timing of regulatory approvals, if any. if we require additional capital at a time when investment in companies such as ours, or in the marketplace generally, is limited due to the then prevailing market or other conditions, we may have to scale back our operations, eliminate one or more of our research or development programs, or attempt to obtain funds by entering into an agreement with a collaborator or licensee that would result in terms that are not favorable to us or relinquishing our rights in certain of our proprietary technologies or drug candidates. if we are unable to raise funds at the time that we desire or at any time thereafter on acceptable terms, we may not be able to continue to develop our potential drug products. the sale of equity or additional convertible debt securities in the future may be dilutive to our stockholders, and debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that could restrict our operations or our ability to incur further indebtedness. we have a large amount of debt and our debt service obligations may prevent us from taking actions that we would otherwise consider to be in our best interests. as of december 31, 2009, the aggregate principal amount of our total consolidated debt was $594.6 million and our stockholders' deficit was $102.4 million. our substantial leverage could have significant negative consequences for our future operations, including: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital and research and development expenditures, and general corporate purposes; requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our expected cash flow or our existing cash to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our cash available for other purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures and research and development expenditures; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; or placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources; historically, we have had negative cash flow from operations. we likely will not generate sufficient cash flow from our operations in the future to enable us to meet our anticipated fixed charges, including our obligations with respect to our outstanding convertible senior notes. as of december 31, 2009, $20.0 million aggregate principal amount of the non-interest bearing convertible subordinated notes held by pfizer was outstanding, of which $10.0 million is due in 2013 and $10.0 million is due in 2014. as of december 31, 2009, $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 4.75% convertible senior notes due 2015 was outstanding and due in october 2015. annual interest payments for our 4.75% convertible senior notes through 2015, assuming that none of these notes are converted, redeemed, repurchased or exchanged, are $19.0 million. funds sufficient to pay the first six scheduled semi-annual interest payments on our 4.75% convertible senior notes are held in an escrow account as security for these interest payments. if we are unable to generate cash from our operations or raise additional cash through financings sufficient to meet the remaining obligations under our 4.75% convertible senior notes or under our notes held by pfizer, we will need to use existing cash or liquidate marketable securities in order to fund these obligations, which may delay or curtail our research, development and commercialization programs. the indenture governing our 4.75% convertible senior notes includes limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, issue certain preferred stock, and incur liens on our assets, including on intellectual property concerning our jak inhibitor program. these limitations could interfere with our ability to raise additional capital in the future or engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. 30 table of contents our marketable securities are subject to certain risks that could adversely affect our overall financial position. we invest our cash in accordance with an established internal policy and customarily in instruments and money market funds which historically have been highly liquid and carried relatively low risk. however, with recent credit market conditions, similar types of investments and money market funds have experienced losses in value or liquidity issues which differ from their historical pattern. should a portion of our cash or marketable securities lose value or have their liquidity impaired, it could adversely affect our overall financial position by imperiling our ability to fund our operations and forcing us to seek additional financing sooner than we would otherwise. such financing, if available, may not be available on commercially attractive terms. our current revenues are derived from collaborations and from licensing our intellectual property. if we are unable to achieve milestones, develop products or renew or enter into new collaborations, our revenues may decrease, and future milestone and royalty payments from our gene and genomics-related intellectual property may not contribute significantly to revenues for several years, and may never result in revenues. we derived all of our revenues for the year ended december 31, 2009 from licensing our intellectual property to others and collaborations. future revenues from research and development collaborations depend upon continuation of the collaborations, the achievement of milestones and royalties we earn from any future products developed from our research. if we are unable to successfully achieve milestones or our collaborators fail to develop successful products, we will not earn the future revenues contemplated under our collaborative agreements. part of our prior strategy was to license to our database customers and to other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies our know-how and patent rights associated with the information we have generated in the creation of our proprietary databases, for use in the discovery and development of potential pharmaceutical, diagnostic or other products. any potential product that is the subject of such a license will require several years of further development, clinical trials and regulatory approval before commercialization, all of which is beyond our control, and possibly beyond the control of our licensee. these licensees may not develop the potential product if they do not devote the necessary resources or decide that they do not want to expend the resources to do the clinical trials necessary to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals. therefore, milestone or royalty payments from these licenses may not contribute to our revenues for several years, if at all. we have decided to discontinue some of our gene and genomics-related patent prosecution and maintenance, and may in the future decide to discontinue additional gene and genomics-related patent prosecution and maintenance, which could limit our ability to receive license-based revenues from our gene and genomics-related patent portfolio. risks relating to intellectual property and legal matters if we are subject to arbitration, litigation and infringement claims, they could be costly and disrupt our drug discovery and development efforts. the technology that we use to make and develop our drug products, the technology that we incorporate in our products, and the products we are developing may be subject to claims that they infringe the patents or proprietary rights of others. the success of our drug discovery and development efforts will also depend on our ability to develop new compounds, drugs and technologies without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. we are aware of patents and patent applications filed in certain countries claiming intellectual property relating to some of our drug discovery targets and product candidates. while the validity of issued patents, patentability of pending patent applications and applicability of any of them to our programs are uncertain, if any of these patents are asserted against us or if we choose to license any of these patents, our ability to commercialize our products could be harmed or the potential return to us from any product that may be successfully commercialized could be diminished. from time to time we have received, and we may in the future receive, notices from third parties offering licenses to technology or alleging patent, trademark, or copyright infringement, claims regarding 31 table of contents trade secrets or other contract claims. receipt of these notices could result in significant costs as a result of the diversion of the attention of management from our drug discovery and development efforts. parties sending these notices may have brought and in the future may bring litigation against us or seek arbitration relating to contract claims. we may be involved in future lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights or contract violations. in addition, litigation or other legal proceedings may be necessary to: assert claims of infringement; enforce our patents or trademarks; protect our trade secrets or know-how; or determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. we may be unsuccessful in defending or pursuing these lawsuits, claims or other legal proceedings. regardless of the outcome, litigation or other legal proceedings can be very costly and can divert management's efforts. for example, we settled patent litigation with invitrogen corporation in 2006. we incurred significant expenses related to this litigation and, as part of the settlement, paid invitrogen $3.4 million. an adverse determination may subject us to significant liabilities or require us or our collaborators or licensees to seek licenses to other parties' patents or proprietary rights. we or our collaborators or licensees may also be restricted or prevented from manufacturing or selling a drug or other product that we or they develop. further, we or our future collaborators or licensees may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. if we are unable to develop non-infringing technology or license technology on a timely basis or on reasonable terms, our business could be harmed. we may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our proprietary information, which may result in its unauthorized use, a loss of revenue under a collaboration agreement or loss of sales to generic versions of our products or otherwise reduce our ability to compete in developing and commercializing products. our business and competitive position depends in significant part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology, including any drug products that we create. despite our efforts to protect this information, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. for example, one of our collaborators may disclose proprietary information pertaining to our drug discovery efforts. in addition, while we have filed numerous patent applications with respect to our product candidates in the united states and in foreign countries, our patent applications may fail to result in issued patents. in addition, because patent applications can take several years to issue as patents, there may be pending patent applications of others that may later issue as patents that cover some aspect of our drug candidates. our existing patents and any future patents we may obtain may not be broad enough to protect our products or all of the potential uses of our products, or otherwise prevent others from developing competing products or technologies. in addition, our patents may be challenged and invalidated or may fail to provide us with any competitive advantages if, for example, others were first to invent or first to file a patent application for the technologies and products covered by our patents. additionally, when we do not control the prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of certain important intellectual property, such as a drug compound in-licensed to us or subject to a collaboration with a third party, the protection of the intellectual property rights may not be in our hands. if we do not control the intellectual property rights in-licensed to us with respect to a compound and the entity that controls the intellectual property rights does not adequately protect those rights, our rights may be impaired, which may impact our ability to develop, market and commercialize the in-licensed compound. our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate, and our competitors may: independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, products and techniques; otherwise gain access to our proprietary information; or 32 table of contents design around patents issued to us or our other intellectual property. we pursue a policy of having our employees, consultants and advisors execute proprietary information and invention agreements when they begin working for us. however, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. if we fail to maintain trade secret and patent protection, our potential, future revenues may be decreased. if the effective term of our patents is decreased due to changes in the united states patent laws or if we need to refile some of our patent applications, the value of our patent portfolio and the revenues we derive from it may be decreased. the value of our patents depends in part on their duration. a shorter period of patent protection could lessen the value of our rights under any patents that we obtain and may decrease the revenues we derive from our patents. the united states patent laws were amended in 1995 to change the term of patent protection from 17 years from patent issuance to 20 years from the earliest effective filing date of the application. because the time from filing to issuance of biotechnology applications may be more than three years depending on the subject matter, a 20-year patent term from the filing date may result in substantially shorter patent protection. also, we may need to refile some of our applications filed before 1995 that claim large numbers of genes or other additional subject matter and, in these situations, the patent term will be measured from the date of the earliest priority application. this would shorten our period of patent exclusivity and may decrease the revenues that we might derive from the patents. international patent protection is particularly uncertain and costly, and if we are involved in opposition proceedings in foreign countries, we may have to expend substantial sums and management resources. biotechnology and pharmaceutical patent law outside the united states is even more uncertain and costly than in the united states and is currently undergoing review and revision in many countries. further, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as united states laws. for example, certain countries do not grant patent claims that are directed to the treatment of humans. we may participate in opposition proceedings to determine the validity of our foreign patents or our competitors' foreign patents, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our investments in marketable securities, which are composed primarily of investment-grade corporate bonds, u.s. government agency debt securities, mortgage and asset-backed securities and money market funds, are subject to default, changes in credit rating and changes in market value. these investments are also subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market rate interest rates increase. as of december 31, 2009, cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term marketable securities were $473.9 million, including a funded restricted cash escrow account of $56.2 million associated with the first six semi-annual interest payments on our 4.75% convertible senior notes due 2015. due to the nature of these investments, if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as of december 31, 2009 the decline in fair value would not be material. 51 table of contentsrisk factors 23 risk factors risks relating to our business we are building our drug discovery, development and commercialization operations and we may be unsuccessful in our efforts. we are building our drug discovery, development and commercialization operations. our ability to discover, develop and commercialize pharmaceutical products will depend on our ability to: hire and retain key scientific employees; identify high quality therapeutic targets; identify potential drug candidates; develop products internally or license drug candidates from others; identify and enroll suitable human subjects, either in the united states or abroad, for our clinical trials; complete laboratory testing and clinical trials on humans; obtain and maintain necessary intellectual property rights to our products; obtain and maintain necessary regulatory approvals for our products, both in the united states and abroad; enter into arrangements with third parties to provide services or to manufacture our products on our behalf; deploy sales and marketing resources effectively or enter into arrangements with third parties to provide these functions in compliance with all applicable laws; obtain appropriate coverage and reimbursement levels for the cost of our products from governmental authorities, private health insurers and other third party payors; lease facilities at reasonable rates to support our growth; and enter into arrangements with third parties to license and commercialize our products. we have limited experience with the activities listed above and may not be successful in discovering, developing, or commercializing drug products. our efforts to discover and develop potential drug candidates may not lead to the discovery, development, commercialization or marketing of drug products. none of our drug candidates has, to date, been submitted for approval for sale in the united states or any foreign market. discovery and development of potential drug candidates are expensive and time-consuming, and we do not know if our efforts will lead to discovery of any drug candidates that can be successfully developed and marketed. if our efforts do not lead to the discovery of a suitable drug candidate, we may be unable to grow our clinical pipeline or we may be unable to enter into agreements with collaborators who are willing to develop our drug candidates. of the compounds that we identify as potential drug products or that we in-license from other companies, only a few, if any, are likely to lead to successful drug development programs. for example, in 2006, we discontinued the development of dexelvucitabine, or dfc, which was at the time our most advanced drug candidate and was in phase iib clinical trials. prior to discontinuation of the dfc program, we expended a significant amount of effort and money on that program. we have also licensed to other parties certain rights to our jak and c-met inhibitor compounds and our portfolio of ccr2 antagonist compounds. we have no or limited control over the further clinical development of these compounds. 23 table of contents the success of our drug discovery and development efforts may depend on our ability to find suitable collaborators to fully exploit our capabilities. if we are unable to establish collaborations or if these future collaborations are unsuccessful in the development and commercialization of our compounds, our research, development and commercialization efforts may be unsuccessful, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. an important element of our business strategy is to enter into collaborative or license arrangements with other parties, such as our collaborations with novartis and lilly for our jak inhibitors, under which we license our drug candidates to those parties for development and commercialization. we are evaluating strategic relationships with respect to several of our other programs and may enter into an agreement with respect to one or more of these programs in the future. however, these arrangements and negotiations are complex and time consuming and there can be no assurance that we will reach agreement with a collaborator or licensee with respect to any of these programs. because collaboration and license arrangements are complex to negotiate, we may not be successful in our attempts to establish these arrangements. also, we may not have drug compounds that are desirable to other parties, or we may be unwilling to license a drug compound because the party interested in it is a competitor. the terms of any such arrangements that we establish may not be favorable to us. alternatively, potential collaborators may decide against entering into an agreement with us because of our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position or for scientific, commercial or other reasons. if we are not able to establish collaborative or license arrangements, we may not be able to develop and commercialize a drug product, which would adversely affect our business and our revenues. in order for any of these collaboration or license arrangements to be successful, we must first identify potential collaborators or licensees whose capabilities complement and integrate well with ours. we may rely on these arrangements for not only financial resources, but also for expertise or economies of scale that we expect to need in the future relating to clinical trials, manufacturing, sales and marketing, and for licenses to technology rights. however, it is likely that we will not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators or licensees devote to our programs or potential products. if our collaborators or licensees prove difficult to work with, are less skilled than we originally expected, do not devote adequate resources to the program, or do not agree with our approach to development or manufacturing of the potential product, the relationship could be unsuccessful. if a business combination involving a collaborator or licensees and a third party were to occur, the effect could be to diminish, terminate or cause delays in development of a potential product. conflicts may arise between our collaborators and licensees and us, or our collaborators and licensees may choose to terminate their agreements with us, which may adversely affect our business. conflicts may arise with our collaborators and licensees if they pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products either on their own or in collaboration with others as a means for developing treatments for the diseases that we have targeted. competing products and product opportunities may lead our collaborators and licensees to withdraw their support for our product candidates. any failure of our collaborators and licensees to perform their obligations under our agreements with them could negatively impact the development of our compounds and product candidates, lead to our loss of potential revenues from product sales and milestones and delay our achievement, if any, of profitability. additionally, conflicts may arise if there is a dispute about the achievement and payment of a milestone amount or the ownership of intellectual property that is developed during the course of a collaborative relationship. our existing collaborative and license agreements can be terminated by our collaborators and licensees for convenience, among other circumstances. if any of our collaborators or licensees terminates its agreement with us, or terminates its rights with respect to certain indications or compounds, we may not be able to find a new collaborator for them, and our business could be adversely affected. should an agreement be terminated before we have realized the benefits of the collaboration or license, our 24 table of contents reputation could be harmed, we may not obtain revenues that we anticipated receiving, and our business could be adversely affected. although we obtained special protocol assessments for our jak inhibitor for each of myelofibrosis and polycythemia vera, a special protocol assessment does not guarantee any particular outcome from regulatory review, including any regulatory approval. we have obtained a special protocol assessment, or spa, for the registration trial for our jak inhibitor for the treatment of myelofibrosis in the united states and for the registration trial for our jak inhibitor for the treatment of polycythemia vera in the united states. the spa process allows for food and drug administration, or fda, evaluation of a clinical trial protocol intended to form the primary basis of an efficacy claim in support of a new drug application, or nda, and provides a product sponsor with an agreement confirming that the design and size of a trial will be appropriate to form the primary basis of an efficacy claim for an nda if the trial is performed according to the spa. even if we believe that the data from a clinical trial are supportive, an spa is not a guarantee of approval, and we cannot be certain that the design of, or data collected from, a trial will be adequate to demonstrate safety and efficacy, or otherwise be sufficient to support regulatory approval. there can be no assurance that the terms of an spa will ultimately be binding on the fda, and the fda is not obligated to approve an nda, if any, even if the clinical outcome is positive. the fda retains significant latitude and discretion in interpreting the terms of an spa and the data and results from a clinical trial, and can require trial design changes or additional studies if issues arise essential to determining safety or efficacy. data may subsequently become available that causes the fda to reconsider the previously agreed upon scope of review and the fda may have subsequent safety or efficacy concerns that override an spa, and we can give no assurance that as clinical trials proceed or as part of an nda review process, if any, the fda will determine that a previously approved spa is still valid. additionally, an spa may be changed only with written agreement of the fda and sponsor, and any further changes we may propose to the protocol will remain subject to the fda's approval. the fda may not agree to any such amendment and, even if they agree, they may request other amendments to the trial design that could require additional cost and time, as well as increase the degree of difficulty in reaching clinical endpoints. as a result, even with an spa, we cannot be certain that the trial results will be found to be adequate to support an efficacy claim and product approval. we depend heavily on the success of our most advanced product candidates. we might not be able to commercialize any of our drug candidates successfully, and we may spend significant time and money attempting to do so. we have invested significant resources in the development of our most advanced product candidates. our drug candidate, ruxolitinib, is in phase iii development for myelofibrosis and a phase iii clinical trial for polycythemia vera. we have a number of drug candidates in phase i and phase ii clinical trials. our ability to generate product revenues will depend on the successful development and eventual commercialization of our most advanced product candidates. we, or our collaborators or licensees, may decide to discontinue development of any or all of our drug candidates at any time for commercial, scientific or other reasons. we discontinued development of dfc in april 2006 for safety reasons. in march 2008, we announced that we would not advance our lead ccr5 antagonist into phase iib trials and that we were seeking to out-license this program. if a product is developed, but is not marketed, we may have spent significant amounts of time and money on it, which would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 25 table of contents even if a drug candidate that we develop receives regulatory approval, we may decide not to commercialize it if we determine that commercialization of that product would require more money and time than we are willing to invest. even if any of our drug candidates receive regulatory approval, they would be subject to post-regulatory surveillance, and may have to be withdrawn from the market or subject to restrictions if previously unknown problems occur. regulatory agencies may also require additional clinical trials or testing, and the drug product may be recalled or may be subject to reformulation, additional studies, changes in labeling, warnings to the public and negative publicity. as a result, we may not continue to commercialize a product even though it has obtained regulatory approval. further, we may decide not to continue to commercialize a product if the market does not accept the product because it is too expensive or because third parties such as insurance companies or medicare have not approved it for substantial reimbursement. in addition, we may decide not to continue to commercialize a product if another product comes on the market that is as effective but has fewer side effects. there is also a risk that competitors may develop similar or superior products or have proprietary rights that preclude us from ultimately marketing our products. we have not commercialized a drug product to date. if we do not develop effective sales and marketing capabilities or establish third-party relationships for the commercialization of our drug candidates, we will not be able to successfully commercialize any drug candidates that obtain regulatory approval, and we may incur significant additional costs or difficulties in doing so. we do not have experience selling or marketing drug products or with respect to pricing and obtaining adequate third-party reimbursement for drugs. we will need to either develop sales and marketing capabilities or enter into arrangements with third parties to sell and market our drug candidates, if they are approved for sale by regulatory authorities. under our collaboration and license agreement with novartis, we have retained commercialization rights to ruxolitinib in the united states. in anticipation of the regulatory approval of ruxolitinib for myelofibrosis, we have started to build the sales and marketing, medical and operational infrastructure to support commercialization. this will require substantial efforts and significant management and financial resources. we will need such an infrastructure to market any of our drug candidates for which we have retained commercialization rights, if they receive regulatory approval. we will need to devote significant effort and investment, in particular, to recruiting individuals with experience in the sales and marketing of pharmaceutical products. competition for personnel with these skills is very high, and we will be competing with companies that are currently marketing successful drugs. we may not be able to successfully develop our own sales and marketing capabilities for ruxolitinib in the united states in order to support an effective launch of ruxolitinib if it is approved for sale. if we do not obtain regulatory approval for ruxolitinib for myelofibrosis, we will have incurred significant expenses to build this commercialization infrastructure. we have granted commercialization rights to other pharmaceutical companies with respect to certain of our drug candidates in specific geographic locations, and intend to seek other collaborative or licensing arrangements with respect to other of our drug candidates. to the extent that our collaborators have commercial rights to our drug candidates, any revenues we receive from any approved drugs will depend primarily on the sales and marketing efforts of others. we do not know whether we will be able to enter into additional third- party sales and marketing arrangements with respect to any of our other drug candidates on acceptable terms, if at all, or whether we will be able to leverage the sales and marketing capabilities we intend to build for ruxolitinib for myelofibrosis in order to market and sell any other drug candidate if it is approved for sale. 26 table of contents if we fail to enter into additional licensing agreements or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our business and operations might be adversely affected. in addition to establishing collaborative or license arrangements under which other parties license our drug candidates for development and commercialization, we may explore opportunities to develop our clinical pipeline by in-licensing drug compounds that fit within our expertise and research and development capabilities. we may be unable to enter into any additional in-licensing agreements because suitable product candidates that are within our expertise may not be available to us on terms that are acceptable to us or because competitors with greater resources seek to in-license the same product candidates. product candidates that we would like to develop may not be available to us because they are controlled by competitors who are unwilling to license the rights to the drug compound or candidate to us. in addition, we may enter into license agreements that are unsuccessful and our business and operations might be adversely affected by the termination of a drug candidate and termination and winding down of the related license agreement. we may also need to license drug delivery or other technology in order to continue to develop our drug candidate pipeline. if we are unable to enter into additional agreements to license drug candidates, drug delivery technology or other technology or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our research and development efforts could be adversely affected. any drug products that we bring to the market, even if they receive marketing approval, may not gain market acceptance by physicians, patients, healthcare payors and others in the medical community. even if we are successful in gaining regulatory approval of our products, we may not generate significant product revenues and we may not become profitable if these drug products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance. physicians will not recommend our drug products until clinical data or other factors demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our drug products as compared to other alternative treatments. even if the clinical safety and efficacy of our drug products is established, physicians may elect not to prescribe these drug products for a variety of reasons, including the reimbursement policies of government and other third-party payors and the effectiveness of our competitors in marketing their products. market acceptance of our drug products, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including: the willingness and ability of patients and the healthcare community to use our products; the ability to manufacture our drug products in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality and to offer our drug products for sale at competitive prices; the perception of patients and the healthcare community, including third-party payors, regarding the safety, efficacy and benefits of our drug products compared to those of competing products or therapies; the label and promotional claims allowed by the fda; the pricing and reimbursement of our drug products relative to existing treatments; and marketing and distribution support for our drug products. 27 table of contents we have limited expertise with and capacity to conduct preclinical testing and clinical trials, and our resulting dependence on other parties could result in delays in and additional costs for our drug development efforts. we have limited experience with clinical trials, formulation, manufacturing and commercialization of drug products. we also have limited internal resources and capacity to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials. as part of our development strategy, we intend to hire clinical research organizations, or cros, to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials for drug candidates. if the cros that we hire to perform our preclinical testing and clinical trials or our collaborators or licensees do not meet deadlines, do not follow proper procedures, or a conflict arises between us and our cros, our preclinical testing and clinical trials may take longer than expected, may be delayed or may be terminated. if we were forced to find a replacement entity to perform any of our preclinical testing or clinical trials, we may not be able to find a suitable entity on favorable terms, or at all. even if we were able to find another company to perform a preclinical test or clinical trial, the delay in the test or trial may result in significant additional expenditures. events such as these may result in delays in our obtaining regulatory approval for our drug candidates or our ability to commercialize our products and could result in increased expenditures that would adversely affect our operating results. in addition, for some of our drug candidates, we have contracted with collaborators to advance those candidates through later-stage, more expensive clinical trials, rather than invest our own resources to perform these clinical trials. under the terms of our agreements with these collaborators, we have no or limited control over the conduct of these clinical trials, and in any event we are subject to the risks associated with depending on collaborators to develop these drug candidates. if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval to develop and market products in the united states and foreign jurisdictions, we will not be permitted to manufacture or commercialize products resulting from our research. in order to manufacture and commercialize drug products in the united states, our drug candidates will have to obtain regulatory approval from the food and drug administration, or the fda. satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years. to obtain regulatory approval, we must first show that our drug products are safe and effective for target indications through preclinical testing (animal testing) and clinical trials (human testing). preclinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes, and we do not know whether the fda will allow us to undertake clinical trials of any potential drug products in addition to our compounds currently in clinical trials. completion of clinical trials may take several years and failure may occur at any stage of testing. the length of time required varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product candidate. interim results of a preclinical test or clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results, and acceptable results in early clinical trials may not be repeated in later clinical trials. for example, a drug candidate that is successful at the preclinical level may cause harmful or dangerous side effects when tested at the clinical level. our rate of commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including: the high degree of risk associated with drug development; our inability to formulate or manufacture sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials; variability in the number and types of patients available for each study; difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, resulting in incomplete data; unforeseen safety issues or side effects; 28 table of contents poor or unanticipated effectiveness of drug candidates during the clinical trials; or government or regulatory delays. data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretation, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. a number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving promising results in earlier clinical trials. in addition, regulatory authorities may refuse or delay approval as a result of other factors, such as changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development and regulatory agency review. for example, the fda has in the past required and could in the future require that we conduct additional trials of any of our product candidates, which would result in delays. due, in part, to the early stage of our drug candidate research and development process, we cannot predict whether regulatory approval will be obtained for any product we develop. none of our drug candidates has, to date, been submitted for approval for sale in the united states of any foreign market. we have licensed to novartis rights to ruxolitinib in certain indications outside of the united states and worldwide rights to c-met and licensed to lilly worldwide rights to ly3009104. we have also licensed to pfizer our portfolio of ccr2 antagonist compounds. we have no or limited control over the further clinical development of any compounds we licensed to these collaborators. compounds developed by us, alone or with other parties, may not prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials and may not meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements needed to receive marketing approval. if regulatory approval of a product is granted, this approval will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which the product is demonstrated through clinical trials to be safe and effective. failure to obtain regulatory approval would delay or prevent us from commercializing products. outside the united states, our ability to market a product is contingent upon receiving a marketing authorization from the appropriate regulatory authorities. this foreign regulatory approval process typically includes all of the risks associated with the fda approval process described above and may also include additional risks. the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country and may require us to perform additional testing and expend additional resources. approval by the fda does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or by the fda. we face significant competition for our drug discovery and development efforts, and if we do not compete effectively, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated. the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. our drug discovery and development efforts may target diseases and conditions that are already subject to existing therapies or that are being developed by our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, more experience in completing preclinical testing and clinical trials, and formulation, marketing and manufacturing capabilities. as a result of these resources, our competitors may develop drug products that render our products obsolete or noncompetitive by developing more effective drugs or by developing their products more efficiently. our ability to develop competitive products would be limited if our competitors succeeded in obtaining regulatory approvals for drug candidates more rapidly than we were able to or in obtaining patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limited our drug development efforts. any drugs resulting from our research and development efforts, or from our joint efforts with collaborators or licensees, might not be able to compete successfully with our competitors' existing and future products, or obtain regulatory approval in the united states or elsewhere. 29 table of contents our reliance on other parties to manufacture our drug candidates could result in a short supply of the drugs, delays in clinical trials or drug development, increased costs, and withdrawal or denial of a regulatory authority's approval. we do not currently operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of our drug candidates. we currently rely on third parties for the manufacture of both the active pharmaceutical ingredient, or api, and finished drug product of our drug candidates for clinical trials. in addition, we expect to continue to rely on third parties for the manufacture of commercial supplies of api and finished drug product for any drugs that we successfully develop. for most of our drug candidates, including our lead drug candidate ruxolitinib, we rely on one third party to manufacture the api, another to make finished drug product and a third to package and label the finished product. the fda requires that the api and finished product for each of our drug products be manufactured according to its current good manufacturing practices, or cgmp, regulations and regulatory authorities in other countries have similar requirements. there are only a limited number of manufacturers that comply with these requirements. if the third parties that manufacture our drug candidates are not compliant with the applicable regulatory requirements, the fda or a foreign regulatory authority may require us to halt ongoing clinical trials or not approve our application to market our drug products. failure to comply with cgmp and the applicable regulatory requirements of other countries in the manufacture of our products could result in the fda or foreign regulatory authority halting our clinical trials, withdrawing or denying regulatory approval of our drug product, enforcing product recalls or other enforcement actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of our drug candidates or any drug products we may develop if our designated manufacturers do not have the capacity or capability to manufacture our products according to our schedule and specifications. in addition, we may not be able to arrange for our drug candidates or any drug products that we may develop to be manufactured by one of these parties on reasonable terms, if at all. also, raw materials that may be required to manufacture any products we develop may only be available from a limited number of suppliers. generally, we have only a single source that is qualified to supply the api and finished product of our drug candidates. if any of these single source suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to supply us with api or finished product that complies with applicable regulatory requirements, we could incur significant delays in our clinical trials or interruption of commercial supply which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are currently seeking to qualify a second source of supply for the api for our lead drug candidate, ruxolitinib, however, there is no assurance that we will be able to identify and qualify a second source of supply for ruxolitinib or any of our other drug candidates or drug products on a timely basis. if we have promised delivery of a new product and are unable to meet the delivery requirement due to manufacturing difficulties, our development programs would be delayed, and we may have to expend additional sums in order to ensure that manufacturing capacity is available when we need it even if we do not use all of the manufacturing capacity. this expense would adversely affect our operating results. manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, especially in scaling up initial production. these problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control and assurance and shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. in order to obtain approval of our products, including ruxolitinib, by the fda and foreign regulatory agencies, we need to complete testing on both the api and on the finished product in the packaging we propose for commercial sales. this includes testing of stability, identification of impurities and testing of other product specifications by validated test methods. in addition, we will be required to consistently produce the api in commercial quantities and of specified quality on a repeated basis and document our ability to do so. this requirement is referred to as process validation. with respect to ruxolitinib, although we have manufactured the product at commercial scale, we have started, but not yet completed, this 30 table of contents process validation requirement. if the required testing or process validation is delayed or produces unfavorable results, we may not obtain approval to launch the product or product launch may be delayed. we may not be able to adequately manage and oversee the manufacturers we choose, they may not perform as agreed or they may terminate their agreements with us. foreign manufacturing approval processes typically include all of the risks associated with the fda approval process for manufacturing and may also include additional risks. if we fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory requirements affecting the health care industry, we could face increased costs, penalties and a loss of business. our activities, and the activities of our collaborators, partners and third party providers, are subject to extensive government regulation and oversight both in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions. the fda and comparable agencies in other jurisdictions directly regulate many of our most critical business activities, including the conduct of preclinical and clinical studies, product manufacturing, advertising and promotion, product distribution, adverse event reporting and product risk management. states increasingly have been placing greater restrictions on the marketing practices of healthcare companies. in addition, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been the target of lawsuits and investigations alleging violations of government regulation, including claims asserting submission of incorrect pricing information, impermissible off-label promotion of pharmaceutical products, payments intended to influence the referral of federal or state healthcare business, submission of false claims for government reimbursement, antitrust violations, or violations related to environmental matters. violations of governmental regulation may be punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in government programs, including medicare and medicaid. in addition to penalties for violation of laws and regulations, we could be required to repay amounts we received from government payors, or pay additional rebates and interest if we are found to have miscalculated the pricing information we have submitted to the government. whether or not we have complied with the law, an investigation into alleged unlawful conduct could increase our expenses, damage our reputation, divert management time and attention and adversely affect our business. health care reform measures could impact the pricing and profitability of pharmaceuticals, and adversely affect the commercial viability of our drug candidates. our ability to generate revenues will be diminished if we are unable to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement from private insurers, government insurance programs or other third-party payors of health care costs, which could be affected by recent healthcare reform legislation. our ability to commercialize our drug candidates successfully will depend in part on the extent to which adequate reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatment are obtained from third-party payors, such as private insurers, government insurance programs, including medicare and medicaid, health maintenance organizations (hmos) and other health care related organizations. the continuing efforts of these third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care by challenging the prices charged for medical products and services may affect our future revenues and profitability, and the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers, collaborators and licensees and the availability of capital. in recent years, through legislative and regulatory actions, the federal government has made substantial changes to various payment systems under the medicare program. comprehensive reforms to the u.s. healthcare system were recently enacted, including changes to the methods for, and amounts of, medicare reimbursement. these reforms could significantly reduce payments from medicare and medicaid. reforms or other changes to these payment systems, may change the availability, methods and rates of reimbursements from medicare, private insurers and other third-party payors for our drug candidates. some of these changes and proposed changes could result in reduced reimbursement rates, which could reduce the price that we or any of our collaborators or licensees receive for any products, if 31 table of contents commercialized, in the future, and which would adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. further federal and state proposals and health care reforms are possible, which could limit the prices that can be charged for any of our drug candidates and may further limit the commercial viability of our drug candidates. in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. if reimbursement for our products, if commercialized, is unavailable, limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our business could be materially harmed. there may be future changes that result in reductions in current coverage and reimbursement levels for our drug candidates, and we cannot predict the scope of any future changes or the impact that those changes would have on our operations. third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. also, the trend toward managed health care in the united states and the concurrent growth of organizations such as hmos, which could control or significantly influence the purchase of health care services and products, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may all result in lower prices for or rejection of our products. adoption of our drug candidates by the medical community may be limited without adequate reimbursement for our products. cost control initiatives may decrease coverage and payment levels for our drug candidates and, in turn, the price that we will be able to charge for any product, if commercialized. our drug candidates may not be considered cost-effective, and coverage and reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis. we are unable to predict all changes to the coverage or reimbursement methodologies that will be applied by private or government payors to our drug candidates. the cost containment measures that health care payors and providers are instituting and any denial of private or government payor coverage or inadequate reimbursement for our drug candidates could materially and adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. as our drug discovery and development operations are conducted at our headquarters in wilmington, delaware, the loss of access to this facility would negatively impact our business. our facility in wilmington, delaware is our headquarters and is also where we conduct all of our drug discovery operations and research and development activities. our lease contains provisions that provide for its early termination upon the occurrence of certain events of default or upon a change of control. further, our headquarters facility is located in a large research and development complex that may be temporarily or permanently shutdown if certain environmental or other hazardous conditions were to occur within the complex. in addition, actions of activists opposed to aspects of pharmaceutical research may disrupt our experiments or our ability to access or use our facilities. the loss of access to or use of our wilmington, delaware, facility, either on a temporary or permanent basis, or early termination of our lease would result in an interruption of our business and, consequently, would adversely affect the advancement of our drug discovery and development programs and our overall business. we depend on key employees in a competitive market for skilled personnel, and the loss of the services of any of our key employees or our inability to attract and retain additional personnel would affect our ability to expand our drug discovery and development programs and achieve our objectives. we are highly dependent on the principal members of our management, operations and scientific staff. we experience intense competition for qualified personnel. our future success also depends in part on the continued service of our executive management team, key scientific and management personnel and our ability to recruit, train and retain essential personnel for our drug discovery and development programs, including those who will be responsible for overseeing our preclinical testing and clinical trials, for the establishment of collaborations with other companies and for our marketing, medical, and operational infrastructure to support commercialization marketing efforts. if we lose the services of any of these people or if we are unable to recruit sufficient qualified personnel, our research and product development goals, including the identification and establishment of key collaborations, operations and 32 table of contents marketing efforts could be delayed or curtailed. we do not maintain "key person" insurance on any of our employees. if we fail to manage our growth effectively, our ability to develop and commercialize products could suffer. we expect that if our clinical drug candidates continue to progress in development, we continue to build our development, medical and marketing organizations and our drug discovery efforts continue to generate drug candidates, we will require significant additional investment in personnel, management and resources. our ability to commercialize our drug candidates and to achieve our research and development objectives depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands and expand our internal organization, systems and controls to accommodate additional anticipated growth. if we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business could be harmed and our ability to execute our business strategy could suffer. if product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we could face substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products and our results of operations could be harmed. the clinical trials and marketing of medical products that are intended for human use entails an inherent risk of product liability. if any product that we or any of our collaborators or licensees develops causes or is alleged to cause injury or is found to be unsuitable during clinical trials, manufacturing or sale, we may be held liable. if we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities, including substantial damages to be paid to the plaintiffs and legal costs, or we may be required to limit commercialization of our products. our product liability insurance policy that provides coverage for liabilities arising from our clinical trials may not fully cover our potential liabilities. in addition, we may determine that we should increase our coverage upon the undertaking of new clinical trials, and this insurance may be prohibitively expensive to us or our collaborators or licensees and may not fully cover our potential liabilities. our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of pharmaceutical products we develop, alone or with our collaborators. additionally, any product liability lawsuit could cause injury to our reputation, recall of products, participants to withdraw from clinical trials, and potential collaborators or licensees to seek other partners, any of which could impact our results of operations. because our activities involve the use of hazardous materials, we may be subject to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials that could be time consuming and costly. we are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the use, handling, storage and disposal of regulated substances and the health and safety of our employees. our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous and radioactive materials and biological waste resulting in the production of hazardous waste products. we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. if any injury or contamination results from our use or the use by our collaborators or licensees of these materials, we may be sued and our liability may exceed our insurance coverage and our total assets. further, we may be required to indemnify our collaborators or licensees against all damages and other liabilities arising out of our development activities or products produced in connection with these collaborations or licenses. compliance with the applicable environmental and workplace laws and regulations is expensive. future changes to environmental, health, workplace and safety laws could cause us to incur additional expense or may restrict our operations or impair our research, development and production efforts. 33 table of contents risks relating to our financial results we expect to incur losses in the future and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. we had net losses from inception in 1991 through 1996 and in 1999 through 2010. because of those losses, we had an accumulated deficit of $1.4 billion as of december 31, 2010. we will continue to spend significant amounts on our efforts to discover and develop drugs. as a result, we expect to continue to incur losses in 2011 and in future periods as well. we anticipate that our drug discovery and development efforts and related expenditures will increase as we focus on the studies, including preclinical tests and clinical trials prior to seeking regulatory approval, that are required before we can sell a drug product. the development of drug products will require us to spend significant funds on research, development, testing, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing and marketing. to date, we do not have any drug products that have generated revenues and we cannot assure you that we will generate revenues from the drug candidates that we license or develop for several years, if ever. we cannot be certain whether or when we will achieve profitability because of the significant uncertainties relating to our ability to generate commercially successful drug products. even if we were successful in obtaining regulatory approvals for manufacturing and commercializing a drug candidate, we expect that we will continue to incur losses if our drug products do not generate significant revenues. if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability. we will need additional capital in the future. the capital markets may not permit us to raise additional capital at the time that we require it, which could result in limitations on our research and development or commercialization efforts or the loss of certain of our rights in our technologies or drug candidates. our future funding requirements will depend on many factors and we anticipate that we will need to raise additional capital to fund our business plan and research and development efforts going-forward and to repay our indebtedness. additional factors that may affect our future funding requirements include: any changes in the breadth of our research and development programs; the results of research and development, preclinical testing and clinical trials conducted by us or our future collaborators or licensees, if any; our exercise of any co-development options with collaborators that may require us to fund future development; the acquisition of technologies, if any; our ability to maintain and establish new corporate relationships and research collaborations; competing technological and market developments; the amount of revenues generated from our business activities, if any; the time and costs involved in filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent and intellectual property claims; the receipt of contingent licensing or milestone fees or royalties on product sales from our current or future collaborative and license arrangements, if established; and the timing of regulatory approvals, if any. if we require additional capital at a time when investment in companies such as ours, or in the marketplace generally, is limited due to the then prevailing market or other conditions, we may have to 34 table of contents scale back our operations, eliminate one or more of our research or development programs, or attempt to obtain funds by entering into an agreement with a collaborator or licensee that would result in terms that are not favorable to us or relinquishing our rights in certain of our proprietary technologies or drug candidates. if we are unable to raise funds at the time that we desire or at any time thereafter on acceptable terms, we may not be able to continue to develop our potential drug products. the sale of equity or additional convertible debt securities in the future may be dilutive to our stockholders, and debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that could restrict our operations or our ability to incur further indebtedness. we have a large amount of debt and our debt service obligations may prevent us from taking actions that we would otherwise consider to be in our best interests. as of december 31, 2010, the aggregate principal amount of our total consolidated debt was $420.0 million and our stockholders' deficit was $88.6 million. our substantial leverage could have significant negative consequences for our future operations, including: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital and research and development expenditures, and general corporate purposes; requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our expected cash flow or our existing cash to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our cash available for other purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures and research and development expenditures; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; or placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. we may not generate sufficient cash flow from our operations in the future to enable us to meet our anticipated fixed charges, including our obligations with respect to our outstanding convertible senior notes. as of december 31, 2010, $20.0 million aggregate principal amount of the non-interest bearing convertible subordinated notes held by pfizer was outstanding, of which $10.0 million is due in 2013 and $10.0 million is due in 2014. as of december 31, 2010, $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 4.75% convertible senior notes due 2015 was outstanding and due in october 2015. annual interest payments for our 4.75% convertible senior notes through 2015, assuming that none of these notes are converted, repurchased or exchanged, are $19.0 million. funds sufficient to pay interest payments through october 2012 on our 4.75% convertible senior notes are held in an escrow account as security for these interest payments. if we are unable to generate cash from our operations or raise additional cash through financings sufficient to meet the remaining obligations under our 4.75% convertible senior notes or under our notes held by pfizer, we will need to use existing cash or liquidate marketable securities in order to fund these obligations, which may delay or curtail our research, development and commercialization programs. the indenture governing our 4.75% convertible senior notes includes limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, issue certain preferred stock, and incur liens on our assets, including on intellectual property concerning our jak inhibitor program. these limitations could interfere with our ability to raise additional capital in the future or engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. 35 table of contents our marketable securities are subject to certain risks that could adversely affect our overall financial position. we invest our cash in accordance with an established internal policy and customarily in instruments and money market funds which historically have been highly liquid and carried relatively low risk. however, with recent credit market conditions, similar types of investments and money market funds have experienced losses in value or liquidity issues which differ from their historical pattern. should a portion of our cash or marketable securities lose value or have their liquidity impaired, it could adversely affect our overall financial position by imperiling our ability to fund our operations and forcing us to seek additional financing sooner than we would otherwise. such financing, if available, may not be available on commercially attractive terms. our current revenues are derived from collaborations and from licensing our intellectual property. if we are unable to achieve milestones, develop products or renew or enter into new collaborations, our revenues may decrease, and future milestone and royalty payments may not contribute significantly to revenues for several years, and may never result in revenues. we derived all of our revenues for the year ended december 31, 2010 from our collaborations and licensing our intellectual property to others. future revenues from research and development collaborations depend upon continuation of the collaborations, the achievement of milestones and royalties we earn from any future products developed from our research. if we are unable to successfully achieve milestones or our collaborators fail to develop successful products, we will not earn the future revenues contemplated under our collaborative agreements. risks relating to intellectual property and legal matters if we are subject to arbitration, litigation and infringement claims, they could be costly and disrupt our drug discovery and development efforts. the technology that we use to make and develop our drug products, the technology that we incorporate in our products, and the products we are developing may be subject to claims that they infringe the patents or proprietary rights of others. the success of our drug discovery and development efforts will also depend on our ability to develop new compounds, drugs and technologies without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. we are aware of patents and patent applications filed in certain countries claiming intellectual property relating to some of our drug discovery targets and product candidates. while the validity of issued patents, patentability of pending patent applications and applicability of any of them to our programs are uncertain, if any of these patents are asserted against us or if we choose to license any of these patents, our ability to commercialize our products could be harmed or the potential return to us from any product that may be successfully commercialized could be diminished. from time to time we have received, and we may in the future receive, notices from third parties offering licenses to technology or alleging patent, trademark, or copyright infringement, claims regarding trade secrets or other contract claims. receipt of these notices could result in significant costs as a result of the diversion of the attention of management from our drug discovery and development efforts. parties sending these notices may have brought and in the future may bring litigation against us or seek arbitration relating to contract claims. we may be involved in future lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights or contract violations. in addition, litigation or other legal proceedings may be necessary to: assert claims of infringement; enforce our patents or trademarks; 36 table of contents protect our trade secrets or know-how; or determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. we may be unsuccessful in defending or pursuing these lawsuits, claims or other legal proceedings. regardless of the outcome, litigation or other legal proceedings can be very costly and can divert management's efforts. for example, we settled patent litigation with invitrogen corporation in 2006. we incurred significant expenses related to this litigation and, as part of the settlement, paid invitrogen $3.4 million. an adverse determination may subject us to significant liabilities or require us or our collaborators or licensees to seek licenses to other parties' patents or proprietary rights. we or our collaborators or licensees may also be restricted or prevented from manufacturing or selling a drug or other product that we or they develop. further, we or our future collaborators or licensees may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. if we are unable to develop non-infringing technology or license technology on a timely basis or on reasonable terms, our business could be harmed. we may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our proprietary information, which may result in its unauthorized use, a loss of revenue under a collaboration agreement or loss of sales to generic versions of our products or otherwise reduce our ability to compete in developing and commercializing products. our business and competitive position depends in significant part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology, including any drug products that we create. despite our efforts to protect this information, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. for example, one of our collaborators may disclose proprietary information pertaining to our drug discovery efforts. in addition, while we have filed numerous patent applications with respect to our product candidates in the united states and in foreign countries, our patent applications may fail to result in issued patents. in addition, because patent applications can take several years to issue as patents, there may be pending patent applications of others that may later issue as patents that cover some aspect of our drug candidates. our existing patents and any future patents we may obtain may not be broad enough to protect our products or all of the potential uses of our products, or otherwise prevent others from developing competing products or technologies. in addition, our patents may be challenged and invalidated or may fail to provide us with any competitive advantages if, for example, others were first to invent or first to file a patent application for the technologies and products covered by our patents. additionally, when we do not control the prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of certain important intellectual property, such as a drug compound in-licensed to us or subject to a collaboration with a third party, the protection of the intellectual property rights may not be in our hands. if we do not control the intellectual property rights in-licensed to us with respect to a compound and the entity that controls the intellectual property rights does not adequately protect those rights, our rights may be impaired, which may impact our ability to develop, market and commercialize the in-licensed compound. our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate, and our competitors may: independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, products and techniques; otherwise gain access to our proprietary information; or design around patents issued to us or our other intellectual property. we pursue a policy of having our employees, consultants and advisors execute proprietary information and invention agreements when they begin working for us. however, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. if we fail to maintain trade secret and patent protection, our potential, future revenues may be decreased. 37 table of contents if the effective term of our patents is decreased due to changes in the united states patent laws or if we need to refile some of our patent applications, the value of our patent portfolio and the revenues we derive from it may be decreased. the value of our patents depends in part on their duration. a shorter period of patent protection could lessen the value of our rights under any patents that we obtain and may decrease the revenues we derive from our patents. the united states patent laws were amended in 1995 to change the term of patent protection from 17 years from patent issuance to 20 years from the earliest effective filing date of the application. because the time from filing to issuance of biotechnology applications may be more than three years depending on the subject matter, a 20-year patent term from the filing date may result in substantially shorter patent protection. international patent protection is particularly uncertain and costly, and if we are involved in opposition proceedings in foreign countries, we may have to expend substantial sums and management resources. biotechnology and pharmaceutical patent law outside the united states is even more uncertain and costly than in the united states and is currently undergoing review and revision in many countries. further, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as united states laws. for example, certain countries do not grant patent claims that are directed to the treatment of humans. we may participate in opposition proceedings to determine the validity of our foreign patents or our competitors' foreign patents, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our investments in marketable securities, which are composed primarily of u.s. government agency and non-agency mortgage-backed securities and money market funds, are subject to default, changes in credit rating and changes in market value. these investments are also subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market rate interest rates increase. as of december 31, 2010, cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term marketable securities were $424.2 million, excluding a funded restricted cash escrow account of $37.9 million reserved for interest payments through october 2012 on our 4.75% convertible senior notes due 2015. due to the nature of these investments, if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as of december 31, 2010, the decline in fair value would not be material. 53 table of contentsrisk factors 26 risk factors risks relating to our lead product jakafi we will depend heavily on our lead product, jakafi (ruxolitinib). if we are unable to establish and increase sales of jakafi in its approved indication or to successfully obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize ruxolitinib for the treatment of additional indications, or if we are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, our business may be materially harmed. in november 2011, we received approval from the u.s. food and drug administration, or fda, to market jakafi in the united states for the treatment of intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis. jakafi is our first product to be approved for sale in the united states. although we have received this regulatory approval, such approval does not guarantee future revenues. the commercial success of jakafi and our ability to generate and maintain revenues from the sale of jakafi will depend on a number of factors, including: our ability to successfully launch commercial sales of jakafi in the united states for the treatment of intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis; the number of patients with intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis who are diagnosed with the disease and identified to us and the number of such patients that may be treated with jakafi; the acceptance of jakafi by patients and the healthcare community; whether physicians, patients and healthcare payors view jakafi as therapeutically effective and safe relative to cost and any alternative therapies; the ability to obtain and maintain sufficient coverage or reimbursement by third-party payors; the ability of our third-party manufacturers to manufacture jakafi in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality; the ability of our company and our third-party providers to provide marketing and distribution support for jakafi; the label and promotional claims allowed by the fda; the maintenance of regulatory approval for the treatment of intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis in the united states; and our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize ruxolitinib in the united states for additional indications. if we are not successful in commercializing sales of jakafi in the united states, or are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, our business may be materially harmed and we may need to delay other product candidate initiatives or even significantly curtail operations. in addition, whether or not we receive royalties under our collaboration agreement with novartis for sales of ruxolitinib outside of the united states will depend on the receipt of european marketing authorization and on factors similar to those listed above for jurisdictions outside of the united states. if we are unable to obtain, or maintain at anticipated levels, reimbursement for jakafi from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, our pricing may be affected or our product sales, results of operations or financial condition could be harmed. we may not be able to sell jakafi on a profitable basis or our profitability may be reduced if we are required to sell jakafi at lower than anticipated prices or reimbursement is unavailable or limited in scope or amount. jakafi is expensive and almost all patients will require some form of third party coverage to afford its cost. our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected if we cannot 26 table of contents depend on government and other third-party payors to defray the cost of jakafi to the patient. if these entities refuse to provide coverage and reimbursement with respect to jakafi, determine to provide a lower level of coverage and reimbursement than anticipated, or reduce previously approved levels of coverage and reimbursement, then our pricing or reimbursement for jakafi may be affected and our product sales, results of operations or financial condition could be harmed. changes in pricing or the amount of reimbursement for jakafi may also reduce our profitability and worsen our financial condition. in the united states, there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, efforts to control and reduce healthcare costs. government and other third-party payors are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting and attempting to limit both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs. a significant reduction in the amount of reimbursement or pricing for jakafi in the united states may have a material adverse effect on our business. we are dependent upon a limited number of specialty pharmacies for a significant portion of any revenues from jakafi, and the loss of, or significant reduction in sales to, any one of these specialty pharmacies could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. we sell jakafi to specialty pharmacies, which in turn dispense jakafi to patients in fulfillment of prescriptions. we do not promote jakafi to specialty pharmacies, and specialty pharmacies will not set or determine demand for jakafi. our ability to successfully commercialize jakafi will depend, in part, on the extent to which we are able to provide adequate distribution of jakafi to patients. although we have contracted with a number of specialty pharmacies, such specialty pharmacies are expected generally to carry a very limited inventory and may be reluctant to be part of our distribution network in the future if demand for the product does not increase. further, it is possible that these specialty pharmacies could decide to change their policies or fees, or both, at some time in the future. this could result in their refusal to carry smaller volume products such as jakafi, or cause higher product costs, lower margins or the need to find alternative methods of distributing our product. although we believe we can find alternative channels to distribute jakafi on a relatively short notice, our revenue during that period of time may suffer and we may incur additional costs to replace any such specialty pharmacies. the loss of any large specialty pharmacies, a significant reduction in sales we make to specialty pharmacies, or any failure to pay for the products we have shipped to them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. if we are unable to establish and maintain effective sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or to enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will not be able to successfully commercialize jakafi. we have no experience selling and marketing drug products and with pricing and obtaining adequate third-party reimbursement for drug products. under our collaboration and license agreement with novartis, we have retained commercialization rights to jakafi in the united states. we have established commercial capabilities in the united states, but cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain our own capabilities or enter into and maintain any marketing, distribution or third-party logistics agreements with third-party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. we may not be able to correctly judge the size and experience of the sales and marketing force and the scale of distribution capabilities necessary to successfully market and sell jakafi. establishing and maintaining sales, marketing and distribution capabilities are expensive and time-consuming. competition for personnel with experience in sales and marketing can be high. our expenses associated with building up and maintaining the sales force and distribution capabilities may be disproportional compared to the revenues we may be able to generate on sales of jakafi. we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in commercializing jakafi. 27 table of contents our reliance on other parties to manufacture jakafi could result in a short supply of jakafi, increased costs, and withdrawal of regulatory approval. we do not currently operate manufacturing facilities for commercial production of jakafi. accordingly, we will be subject to the risks described below under " other risks relating to our business our reliance on other parties to manufacture our drug candidates could result in a short supply of the drugs, delays in clinical trials or drug development, increased costs, and withdrawal or denial of a regulatory authority's approval." if we fail to comply with continuing regulations, we could lose our approval to market jakafi or be subject to other governmental enforcement activity. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain regulatory approval to market jakafi in the united states. if we do not maintain our regulatory approval to market jakafi, our results of operations will be materially harmed. we and our current collaborators, third-party manufacturers and suppliers are subject to rigorous and extensive regulation by the fda and other federal and state agencies. these regulations continue to apply after product marketing approval, and cover, among other things, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, advertising, promotion, risk mitigation, and adverse event reporting requirements. our commercialization of jakafi will be subject to post-regulatory approval surveillance, and jakafi may have to be withdrawn from the market or subject to restrictions if previously unknown problems occur. regulatory agencies may also require additional clinical trials or testing for jakafi, and jakafi may be recalled or may be subject to reformulation, additional studies, changes in labeling, warnings to the public and negative publicity. failure to comply with the laws and requirements, including statutes and regulations, administered by the fda or other agencies could result in: administrative and judicial sanctions, including, warning letters; fines and other civil penalties; withdrawal of regulatory approval to market jakafi; interruption of production; operating restrictions; product recall or seizure; injunctions; and criminal prosecution. the occurrence of any such event may have a material adverse effect on our business. if the use of jakafi harms patients, or is perceived to harm patients even when such harm is unrelated to jakafi, our regulatory approval could be revoked or otherwise negatively impacted or we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. the testing of jakafi and the manufacturing, marketing and sale of jakafi expose us to product liability and other risks. side effects and other problems experienced by patients from the use of jakafi could: lessen the frequency with which physicians decide to prescribe jakafi; encourage physicians to stop prescribing jakafi to their patients who previously had been prescribed jakafi; 28 table of contents cause serious harm to patients that may give rise to product liability claims against us; and result in our need to withdraw or recall jakafi from the marketplace. if jakafi is used by a wide patient population, new risks and side effects may be discovered, the rate of known risks or side effects may increase, and risks previously viewed as less significant could be determined to be significant. previously unknown risks and adverse effects of jakafi may also be discovered in connection with unapproved, or off-label, uses of jakafi. we are prohibited by law from promoting or in any way supporting or encouraging the promotion of jakafi for off-label uses, but physicians are permitted to use products for off-label purposes. in addition, we are studying and expect to continue to study jakafi in diseases other than intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis in controlled clinical settings, and independent investigators are doing so as well. in the event of any new risks or adverse effects discovered as new patients are treated for intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis and as jakafi is studied in or used by patients for off-label indications, regulatory authorities may delay or revoke their approvals, we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials, make changes in labeling of jakafi, reformulate jakafi or make changes and obtain new approvals. we may also experience a significant drop in the potential sales of jakafi, experience harm to our reputation and the reputation of jakafi in the marketplace or become subject to lawsuits, including class actions. any of these results could decrease or prevent any sales of jakafi or substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing jakafi. patients who have been enrolled in our clinical trials or who may use jakafi in the future often have severe and advanced stages of disease and known as well as unknown significant pre-existing and potentially life-threatening health risks. during the course of treatment, patients may suffer adverse events, including death, for reasons that may or may not be related to jakafi. such events could subject us to costly litigation, require us to pay substantial amounts of money to injured patients, delay, negatively impact or end our opportunity to receive or maintain regulatory approval to market jakafi, or require us to suspend or abandon our commercialization efforts. even in a circumstance in which we do not believe that an adverse event is related to jakafi, the investigation into the circumstance may be time consuming or inconclusive. these investigations may interrupt our sales efforts, delay the regulatory approval process for our collaborator novartis in other countries, or impact and limit the type of regulatory approvals jakafi receives or maintains. if we market jakafi in a manner that violates various federal and state health care related laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. in addition to fda and related regulatory requirements, we are subject to health care "fraud and abuse" laws, such as the federal false claims act, the anti-kickback provisions of the federal social security act, and other state and federal laws and regulations. federal and state anti-kickback laws prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce, or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any health care item or service reimbursable under medicare, medicaid, or other federally- or state-financed health care programs. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in promotion for off-label uses that the fda has not approved that caused claims to be submitted to federally-financed health care programs for non-covered off-label uses; providing financial remuneration to health care providers to induce them to prescribe certain pharmaceutical products, claims for which are then submitted to federally-financed health care 29 table of contents programs for reimbursement; and submitting inflated best price information to the medicaid rebate program. although physicians are permitted, based on their medical judgment, to prescribe products for indications other than those cleared or approved by the fda, manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products for such off-label uses. we market jakafi for intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis and provide promotional materials to physicians regarding the use of jakafi for this indication. although we believe that our marketing materials for physicians do not constitute off-label promotion of jakafi, the fda may disagree. if the fda determines that our promotional materials or other activities constitute off-label promotion of jakafi, it could request that we modify our promotional materials or other activities or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. it is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they believe that the alleged improper promotion led to the submission and payment of claims for an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. even if it is later determined we are not in violation of these laws, we may be faced with negative publicity, incur significant expenses defending our position and have to divert significant management resources from other matters. the majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. in recent years, several states and localities, including california, connecticut, the district of columbia, maine, minnesota, nevada, new mexico, texas, vermont, and west virginia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. similar legislation is being considered in other states. additionally, as part of the patient protection and affordable care act, the federal government has enacted the physician payment sunshine provisions. beginning in 2013, the sunshine provisions require manufacturers to publicly report any gifts and payments made to physicians and teaching hospitals. many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements are unclear. nonetheless, if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement action and fines and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity. see also " other risks relating to our business if we fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory requirements affecting the health care industry, we could face increased costs, penalties and a loss of business" below. other risks relating to our business we are building our drug discovery, development and commercialization operations and we may be unsuccessful in our efforts. except for jakafi for the treatment of intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis in the united states, none of our drug candidates has received regulatory approval. we are building our drug discovery, development and commercialization operations. our ability to discover, develop and commercialize pharmaceutical products will depend on our ability to: hire and retain key scientific employees; identify high quality therapeutic targets; identify potential drug candidates; develop products internally or license drug candidates from others; 30 table of contents identify and enroll suitable human subjects, either in the united states or abroad, for our clinical trials; complete laboratory testing and clinical trials on humans; obtain and maintain necessary intellectual property rights to our products; obtain and maintain necessary regulatory approvals for our products, both in the united states and abroad; enter into arrangements with third parties to provide services or to manufacture our products on our behalf; deploy sales and marketing resources effectively or enter into arrangements with third parties to provide these functions in compliance with all applicable laws; obtain appropriate coverage and reimbursement levels for the cost of our products from governmental authorities, private health insurers and other third party payors; lease facilities at reasonable rates to support our growth; and enter into arrangements with third parties to license and commercialize our products. we have limited experience with the activities listed above and may not be successful in discovering, developing, or commercializing drug products. we depend heavily on the success of our most advanced product candidates. we might not be able to commercialize any of our drug candidates successfully, and we may spend significant time and money attempting to do so. we have invested significant resources in the development of our most advanced product candidates. in addition to the recent commercial launch of jakafi for the treatment of intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis, ruxolitinib is also in a phase iii clinical trial for the treatment of polycythemia vera. further, we have a number of drug candidates in phase i and phase ii clinical trials. our ability to generate product revenues will depend on the successful development and eventual commercialization of our most advanced product candidates. we, or our collaborators or licensees, may decide to discontinue development of any or all of our drug candidates at any time for commercial, scientific or other reasons. for example, in march 2008, we announced that we would not advance our lead ccr5 antagonist into phase iib trials and, in september 2011, we announced that we had discontinued development of our lead sheddase inhibitor, incb7839, for the treatment of breast cancer. if a product is developed, but is not marketed, we may have spent significant amounts of time and money on it, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. our efforts to discover and develop potential drug candidates may not lead to the discovery, development, commercialization or marketing of drug products. jakafi is our only drug candidate that has, to date, received regulatory approval for sale in the united states. discovery and development of potential drug candidates are expensive and time-consuming, and we do not know if our efforts will lead to discovery of any drug candidates that can be successfully developed and marketed. if our efforts do not lead to the discovery of a suitable drug candidate, we may be unable to grow our clinical pipeline or we may be unable to enter into agreements with collaborators who are willing to develop our drug candidates. of the compounds that we identify as potential drug products or that we in-license from other companies, only a few, if any, are likely to lead to successful drug development programs. we have also licensed to other parties certain rights to our jak1 and jak2 inhibitor compounds and c-met inhibitor compounds and our portfolio of ccr2 antagonist compounds. we have no or limited control over the further clinical development of these compounds. 31 table of contents the success of our drug discovery and development efforts may depend on our ability to find suitable collaborators to fully exploit our capabilities. if we are unable to establish collaborations or if these future collaborations are unsuccessful in the development and commercialization of our compounds, our research, development and commercialization efforts may be unsuccessful, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. an important element of our business strategy is to enter into collaborative or license arrangements with other parties, such as our collaborations with novartis and lilly for our jak inhibitors, under which we license our drug candidates to those parties for development and commercialization. we are evaluating strategic relationships with respect to several of our other programs and may enter into an agreement with respect to one or more of these programs in the future. however, these arrangements and negotiations are complex and time consuming and there can be no assurance that we will reach agreement with a collaborator or licensee with respect to any of these programs. because collaboration and license arrangements are complex to negotiate, we may not be successful in our attempts to establish these arrangements. also, we may not have drug compounds that are desirable to other parties, or we may be unwilling to license a drug compound because the party interested in it is a competitor. the terms of any such arrangements that we establish may not be favorable to us. alternatively, potential collaborators may decide against entering into an agreement with us because of our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position or for scientific, commercial or other reasons. if we are not able to establish collaborative or license arrangements, we may not be able to develop and commercialize a drug product, which would adversely affect our business and our revenues. in order for any of these collaboration or license arrangements to be successful, we must first identify potential collaborators or licensees whose capabilities complement and integrate well with ours. we may rely on these arrangements for not only financial resources, but also for expertise or economies of scale that we expect to need in the future relating to clinical trials, manufacturing, sales and marketing, and for licenses to technology rights. however, it is likely that we will not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators or licensees devote to our programs or potential products. if our collaborators or licensees prove difficult to work with, are less skilled than we originally expected, do not devote adequate resources to the program, or do not agree with our approach to development or manufacturing of the potential product, the relationship could be unsuccessful. if a business combination involving a collaborator or licensees and a third party were to occur, the effect could be to diminish, terminate or cause delays in development of a potential product. conflicts may arise between our collaborators and licensees and us, or our collaborators and licensees may choose to terminate their agreements with us, which may adversely affect our business. conflicts may arise with our collaborators and licensees if they pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products either on their own or in collaboration with others as a means for developing treatments for the diseases that we have targeted. competing products and product opportunities may lead our collaborators and licensees to withdraw their support for our product candidates. any failure of our collaborators and licensees to perform their obligations under our agreements with them could negatively impact the development of our compounds and product candidates, lead to our loss of potential revenues from product sales and milestones and delay our achievement, if any, of profitability. additionally, conflicts may arise if there is a dispute about the achievement and payment of a milestone amount or the ownership of intellectual property that is developed during the course of a collaborative relationship. our existing collaborative and license agreements can be terminated by our collaborators and licensees for convenience, among other circumstances. if any of our collaborators or licensees terminates its agreement with us, or terminates its rights with respect to certain indications or compounds, we may not be able to find a new collaborator for them, and our business could be adversely affected. should an agreement be terminated before we have realized the benefits of the collaboration or license, our reputation could be harmed, we may not obtain revenues that we anticipated receiving, and our business could be adversely affected. 32 table of contents although we obtained a special protocol assessment agreement for ruxolitinib for polycythemia vera, a special protocol assessment agreement does not guarantee any particular outcome from regulatory review, including any regulatory approval. we have obtained a special protocol assessment, or spa, agreement for the registration trial for ruxolitinib for the treatment of polycythemia vera in the united states. the spa process allows for fda evaluation of a clinical trial protocol intended to form the primary basis of an efficacy claim in support of an nda, and provides a product sponsor with an agreement confirming that the design and size of a trial will be appropriate to form the primary basis of an efficacy claim for an nda if the trial is performed according to the spa. even if we believe that the data from a clinical trial are supportive, an spa is not a guarantee of approval, and we cannot be certain that the design of, or data collected from, a trial will be adequate to demonstrate safety and efficacy, or otherwise be sufficient to support regulatory approval. there can be no assurance that the terms of an spa will ultimately be binding on the fda, and the fda is not obligated to approve an nda, if any, even if the clinical outcome is positive. the fda retains significant latitude and discretion in interpreting the terms of an spa and the data and results from a clinical trial, and can require trial design changes or additional studies if issues arise essential to determining safety or efficacy. data may subsequently become available that causes the fda to reconsider the previously agreed upon scope of review and the fda may have subsequent safety or efficacy concerns that override an spa, and we can give no assurance that as clinical trials proceed or as part of an nda review process, if any, the fda will determine that a previously approved spa is still valid. additionally, an spa may be changed only with written agreement of the fda and sponsor, and any further changes we may propose to the protocol will remain subject to the fda's approval. the fda may not agree to any such amendment and, even if they agree, they may request other amendments to the trial design that could require additional cost and time, as well as increase the degree of difficulty in reaching clinical endpoints. as a result, even with an spa, we cannot be certain that the trial results will be found to be adequate to support an efficacy claim and product approval. even if a drug candidate that we develop receives regulatory approval, we may decide not to commercialize it if we determine that commercialization of that product would require more money and time than we are willing to invest. even if any of our drug candidates receives regulatory approval, it would be subject to post-regulatory surveillance, and may have to be withdrawn from the market or subject to restrictions if previously unknown problems occur. regulatory agencies may also require additional clinical trials or testing, and the drug product may be recalled or may be subject to reformulation, additional studies, changes in labeling, warnings to the public and negative publicity. as a result, we may not continue to commercialize a product even though it has obtained regulatory approval. further, we may decide not to continue to commercialize a product if the market does not accept the product because it is too expensive or because third parties such as insurance companies or medicare have not approved it for substantial reimbursement. in addition, we may decide not to continue to commercialize a product if another product comes on the market that is as effective but has fewer side effects. there is also a risk that competitors may develop similar or superior products or have proprietary rights that preclude us from ultimately marketing our products. we may not be able to successfully commercialize any drug candidates that obtain regulatory approval if we do not establish third-party relationships for the commercialization of those drug candidates, and any revenues we receive from any approved drugs could be dependent on those relationships. we have granted commercialization rights to other pharmaceutical companies with respect to certain of our drug candidates in specific geographic locations, and intend to seek other collaborative or licensing arrangements with respect to other of our drug candidates. to the extent that our collaborators have commercial rights to our drug candidates, any revenues we receive from any approved drugs will depend primarily on the sales and marketing efforts of others. we do not know whether we will be able to enter into additional third-party sales and marketing arrangements with respect to any of our other drug candidates on acceptable terms, if at all. 33 table of contents if we fail to enter into additional licensing agreements or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our business and operations might be adversely affected. in addition to establishing collaborative or license arrangements under which other parties license our drug candidates for development and commercialization, we may explore opportunities to develop our clinical pipeline by in-licensing drug compounds that fit within our expertise and research and development capabilities. we may be unable to enter into any additional in-licensing agreements because suitable product candidates that are within our expertise may not be available to us on terms that are acceptable to us or because competitors with greater resources seek to in-license the same product candidates. product candidates that we would like to develop may not be available to us because they are controlled by competitors who are unwilling to license the rights to the drug compound or candidate to us. in addition, we may enter into license agreements that are unsuccessful and our business and operations might be adversely affected by the termination of a drug candidate and termination and winding down of the related license agreement. we may also need to license drug delivery or other technology in order to continue to develop our drug candidate pipeline. if we are unable to enter into additional agreements to license drug candidates, drug delivery technology or other technology or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our research and development efforts could be adversely affected. any drug products that we bring to the market, even if they receive marketing approval, may not gain market acceptance by physicians, patients, healthcare payors and others in the medical community. even if we are successful in gaining regulatory approval of any of our product candidates in addition to jakafi for the treatment of intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis in the united states, we may not generate significant product revenues and we may not become profitable if these drug products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance. physicians may not recommend our drug products until clinical data or other factors demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our drug products as compared to other alternative treatments. even if the clinical safety and efficacy of our drug products is established, physicians may elect not to prescribe these drug products for a variety of reasons, including the reimbursement policies of government and other third-party payors and the effectiveness of our competitors in marketing their products. market acceptance of our drug products, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including: the willingness and ability of patients and the healthcare community to use our products; the ability to manufacture our drug products in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality and to offer our drug products for sale at competitive prices; the perception of patients and the healthcare community, including third-party payors, regarding the safety, efficacy and benefits of our drug products compared to those of competing products or therapies; the label and promotional claims allowed by the fda; the pricing and reimbursement of our drug products relative to existing treatments; and marketing and distribution support for our drug products. we have limited expertise with and capacity to conduct preclinical testing and clinical trials, and our resulting dependence on other parties could result in delays in and additional costs for our drug development efforts. we have limited experience with clinical trials, formulation, manufacturing and commercialization of drug products. we also have limited internal resources and capacity to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials. as part of our development strategy, we intend to hire clinical research organizations, or 34 table of contents cros, to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials for drug candidates. if the cros that we hire to perform our preclinical testing and clinical trials or our collaborators or licensees do not meet deadlines, do not follow proper procedures, or a conflict arises between us and our cros, our preclinical testing and clinical trials may take longer than expected, may be delayed or may be terminated. if we were forced to find a replacement entity to perform any of our preclinical testing or clinical trials, we may not be able to find a suitable entity on favorable terms, or at all. even if we were able to find another company to perform a preclinical test or clinical trial, the delay in the test or trial may result in significant additional expenditures. events such as these may result in delays in our obtaining regulatory approval for our drug candidates or our ability to commercialize our products and could result in increased expenditures that would adversely affect our operating results. in addition, for some of our drug candidates, we have contracted with collaborators to advance those candidates through later-stage, more expensive clinical trials, rather than invest our own resources to perform these clinical trials. under the terms of our agreements with these collaborators, we have no or limited control over the conduct of these clinical trials, and in any event we are subject to the risks associated with depending on collaborators to develop these drug candidates. if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval to develop and market products in the united states and foreign jurisdictions, we will not be permitted to manufacture or commercialize products resulting from our research. in order to manufacture and commercialize drug products in the united states, our drug candidates will have to obtain regulatory approval from the fda. satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years. to obtain regulatory approval, we must first show that our drug products are safe and effective for target indications through preclinical testing (animal testing) and clinical trials (human testing). preclinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes, and we do not know whether the fda will allow us to undertake clinical trials of any potential drug products in addition to our compounds currently in clinical trials. completion of clinical trials may take several years and failure may occur at any stage of testing. the length of time required varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product candidate. interim results of a preclinical test or clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results, and acceptable results in early clinical trials may not be repeated in later clinical trials. for example, a drug candidate that is successful at the preclinical level may cause harmful or dangerous side effects when tested at the clinical level. our rate of commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including: the high degree of risk associated with drug development; our inability to formulate or manufacture sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials; variability in the number and types of patients available for each study; difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, resulting in incomplete data; unforeseen safety issues or side effects; poor or unanticipated effectiveness of drug candidates during the clinical trials; or government or regulatory delays. data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretation, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. a number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving promising results in earlier clinical trials. in addition, regulatory authorities may refuse or delay approval as a result of other factors, such as changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development 35 table of contents and regulatory agency review. for example, the fda has in the past required and could in the future require that we conduct additional trials of any of our product candidates, which would result in delays. although we received regulatory approval to market jakafi for the treatment of intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis in the united states, we cannot predict whether or when regulatory approval will be obtained for any other drug product we develop. we have licensed to novartis rights to ruxolitinib in certain indications outside of the united states and worldwide rights to c-met and licensed to lilly worldwide rights to ly3009104. we have also licensed to pfizer our portfolio of ccr2 antagonist compounds. we have no or limited control over the further clinical development of any compounds we licensed to these collaborators. compounds developed by us, alone or with other parties, may not prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials and may not meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements needed to receive marketing approval. if regulatory approval of a product is granted, this approval will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which the product is demonstrated through clinical trials to be safe and effective. failure to obtain regulatory approval would delay or prevent us from commercializing products. outside the united states, our ability to market a product is contingent upon receiving a marketing authorization from the appropriate regulatory authorities. this foreign regulatory approval process typically includes all of the risks associated with the fda approval process described above and may also include additional risks. the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country and may require us to perform additional testing and expend additional resources. approval by the fda does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or by the fda. we face significant competition for our drug discovery and development efforts, and if we do not compete effectively, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated. the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. our drug discovery and development efforts may target diseases and conditions that are already subject to existing therapies or that are being developed by our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, more experience in completing preclinical testing and clinical trials, and formulation, marketing and manufacturing capabilities. as a result of these resources, our competitors may develop drug products that render our products obsolete or noncompetitive by developing more effective drugs or by developing their products more efficiently. our ability to develop competitive products would be limited if our competitors succeeded in obtaining regulatory approvals for drug candidates more rapidly than we were able to or in obtaining patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limited our drug development efforts. any drugs resulting from our research and development efforts, or from our joint efforts with collaborators or licensees, might not be able to compete successfully with our competitors' existing and future products, or obtain regulatory approval in the united states or elsewhere. our reliance on other parties to manufacture our drug candidates could result in a short supply of the drugs, delays in clinical trials or drug development, increased costs, and withdrawal or denial of a regulatory authority's approval. we do not currently operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of our drug candidates. we currently rely on third parties for the manufacture of the raw materials, the api and finished drug product of jakafi and our other drug candidates for clinical trials. in addition, we expect to continue to rely on third parties for the manufacture of commercial supplies of raw materials, api and finished drug product for any drugs that we successfully develop. for jakafi and most of our drug candidates, we rely on third parties to manufacture the raw materials, another third party to manufacture the api and another to make the finished drug product and to package and label the finished product. the 36 table of contents fda requires that the raw materials, api and finished product for each of our drug products be manufactured according to its current good manufacturing practices regulations and regulatory authorities in other countries have similar requirements. there are only a limited number of manufacturers that comply with these requirements. if the third parties that manufacture our drug candidates are not compliant with the applicable regulatory requirements, the fda or a foreign regulatory authority may require us to halt ongoing clinical trials or not approve our application to market our drug products. failure to comply with current good manufacturing practices and the applicable regulatory requirements of other countries in the manufacture of our products could result in the fda or foreign regulatory authority halting our clinical trials, withdrawing or denying regulatory approval of our drug product, enforcing product recalls or other enforcement actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of our drug candidates or any drug products we may develop if our designated manufacturers do not have the capacity or capability to manufacture our products according to our schedule and specifications. in addition, we may not be able to arrange for our drug candidates or any drug products that we may develop to be manufactured by one of these parties on reasonable terms, if at all. also, raw materials that may be required to manufacture any products we develop may only be available from a limited number of suppliers and, in the case of jakafi, are currently supplied by a single source. as noted above, generally, we have only single sources that are qualified to supply each of the api and finished product of jakafi and our other drug candidates. if any of these single source suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to supply us with raw materials, api or finished product that complies with applicable regulatory requirements, we could incur significant delays in our clinical trials or interruption of commercial supply that could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are currently seeking to qualify a second source of supply for the api for jakafi, however, there is no assurance that we will be able to identify and qualify a second source of supply for jakafi. if we have promised delivery of a drug candidate or drug product and are unable to meet the delivery requirement due to manufacturing difficulties, our development programs could be delayed, we may have to expend additional sums in order to ensure that manufacturing capacity is available when we need it even if we do not use all of the manufacturing capacity, and our business and operating results could be harmed. manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, especially in scaling up initial production. these problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control and assurance and shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. in order to obtain approval of our products, by the fda and foreign regulatory agencies, we need to complete testing on both the api and on the finished product in the packaging we propose for commercial sales. this includes testing of stability, identification of impurities and testing of other product specifications by validated test methods. in addition, we will be required to consistently produce the api in commercial quantities and of specified quality on a repeated basis and document our ability to do so. this requirement is referred to as process validation. we may not be able to adequately manage and oversee the manufacturers we choose, they may not perform as agreed or they may terminate their agreements with us. foreign manufacturing approval processes typically include all of the risks associated with the fda approval process for manufacturing and may also include additional risks. if we fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory requirements affecting the health care industry, we could face increased costs, penalties and a loss of business. our activities, and the activities of our collaborators, partners and third party providers, are subject to extensive government regulation and oversight both in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions. the fda and comparable agencies in other jurisdictions directly regulate many of our most critical business 37 table of contents activities, including the conduct of preclinical and clinical studies, product manufacturing, advertising and promotion, product distribution, adverse event reporting and product risk management. states increasingly have been placing greater restrictions on the marketing practices of healthcare companies. in addition, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been the target of lawsuits and investigations alleging violations of government regulation, including claims asserting submission of incorrect pricing information, impermissible off-label promotion of pharmaceutical products, payments intended to influence the referral of federal or state healthcare business, submission of false claims for government reimbursement, antitrust violations, or violations related to environmental matters. violations of governmental regulation may be punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in government programs, including medicare and medicaid. in addition to penalties for violation of laws and regulations, we could be required to repay amounts we received from government payors, or pay additional rebates and interest if we are found to have miscalculated the pricing information we have submitted to the government. whether or not we have complied with the law, an investigation into alleged unlawful conduct could increase our expenses, damage our reputation, divert management time and attention and adversely affect our business. health care reform measures could impact the pricing and profitability of pharmaceuticals, and adversely affect the commercial viability of our drug candidates. our ability to generate revenues will be diminished if we are unable to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement from private insurers, government insurance programs or other third-party payors of health care costs, which could be affected by recent healthcare reform legislation. our ability to commercialize our drug candidates successfully will depend in part on the extent to which adequate reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatment are obtained from third-party payors, such as private insurers, government insurance programs, including medicare and medicaid, health maintenance organizations (hmos) and other health care related organizations. the continuing efforts of these third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care by challenging the prices charged for medical products and services may affect our future revenues and profitability, and the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers, collaborators and licensees and the availability of capital. in recent years, through legislative and regulatory actions, the federal government has made substantial changes to various payment systems under the medicare program. comprehensive reforms to the u.s. healthcare system were recently enacted, including changes to the methods for, and amounts of, medicare reimbursement. these reforms could significantly reduce payments from medicare and medicaid. reforms or other changes to these payment systems, may change the availability, methods and rates of reimbursements from medicare, private insurers and other third-party payors for our drug candidates. some of these changes and proposed changes could result in reduced reimbursement rates, which could reduce the price that we or any of our collaborators or licensees receive for any products, if commercialized, in the future, and which would adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. further federal and state proposals and health care reforms are possible, which could limit the prices that can be charged for any of our drug candidates and may further limit the commercial viability of our drug candidates. in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. if reimbursement for our products, if commercialized, is unavailable, limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our business could be materially harmed. there may be future changes that result in reductions in current coverage and reimbursement levels for our drug candidates, and we cannot predict the scope of any future changes or the impact that those changes would have on our operations. third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. also, the trend toward managed health care in the united states and the concurrent growth of organizations such as hmos, which could control or significantly influence the purchase of health care 38 table of contents services and products, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may all result in lower prices for or rejection of our products. adoption of our drug candidates by the medical community may be limited without adequate reimbursement for our products. cost control initiatives may decrease coverage and payment levels for our drug candidates and, in turn, the price that we will be able to charge for any product, if commercialized. our drug candidates may not be considered cost-effective, and coverage and reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis. we are unable to predict all changes to the coverage or reimbursement methodologies that will be applied by private or government payors to our drug candidates. the cost containment measures that health care payors and providers are instituting and any denial of private or government payor coverage or inadequate reimbursement for our drug candidates could materially and adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. as our drug discovery and development operations are conducted at our headquarters in wilmington, delaware, the loss of access to this facility would negatively impact our business. our facility in wilmington, delaware is our headquarters and is also where we conduct all of our drug discovery operations and research and development activities. our lease contains provisions that provide for its early termination upon the occurrence of certain events of default or upon a change of control. further, our headquarters facility is located in a large research and development complex that may be temporarily or permanently shut down if certain environmental or other hazardous conditions were to occur within the complex. in addition, actions of activists opposed to aspects of pharmaceutical research may disrupt our experiments or our ability to access or use our facilities. the loss of access to or use of our wilmington, delaware, facility, either on a temporary or permanent basis, or early termination of our lease would result in an interruption of our business and, consequently, would adversely affect the advancement of our drug discovery and development programs and our overall business. we depend on key employees in a competitive market for skilled personnel, and the loss of the services of any of our key employees or our inability to attract and retain additional personnel would affect our ability to expand our drug discovery and development programs and achieve our objectives. we are highly dependent on the principal members of our management, operations and scientific staff. we experience intense competition for qualified personnel. our future success also depends in part on the continued service of our executive management team, key scientific and management personnel and our ability to recruit, train and retain essential personnel for our drug discovery and development programs, including those who will be responsible for overseeing our preclinical testing and clinical trials, for the establishment of collaborations with other companies and for our marketing, medical, and operational infrastructure to support commercialization marketing efforts. if we lose the services of any of these people or if we are unable to recruit sufficient qualified personnel, our research and product development goals, including the identification and establishment of key collaborations, operations and marketing efforts could be delayed or curtailed. we do not maintain "key person" insurance on any of our employees. if we fail to manage our growth effectively, our ability to develop and commercialize products could suffer. we expect that if our clinical drug candidates continue to progress in development, we continue to build our development, medical and marketing organizations and our drug discovery efforts continue to generate drug candidates, we will require significant additional investment in personnel, management and resources. our ability to commercialize our drug candidates and to achieve our research and development objectives depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands and expand our internal organization, systems and controls to accommodate additional anticipated growth. if we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business could be harmed and our ability to execute our business strategy could suffer. 39 table of contents if product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we could face substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products and our results of operations could be harmed. the clinical trials and marketing of medical products that are intended for human use entails an inherent risk of product liability. if any product that we or any of our collaborators or licensees develops causes or is alleged to cause injury or is found to be unsuitable during clinical trials, manufacturing or sale, we may be held liable. if we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities, including substantial damages to be paid to the plaintiffs and legal costs, or we may be required to limit commercialization of our products. our product liability insurance policy that provides coverage for liabilities arising from our clinical trials may not fully cover our potential liabilities. in addition, we may determine that we should increase our coverage upon the undertaking of new clinical trials, and this insurance may be prohibitively expensive to us or our collaborators or licensees and may not fully cover our potential liabilities. our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of pharmaceutical products we develop, alone or with our collaborators. additionally, any product liability lawsuit could cause injury to our reputation, recall of products, participants to withdraw from clinical trials, and potential collaborators or licensees to seek other partners, any of which could impact our results of operations. because our activities involve the use of hazardous materials, we may be subject to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials that could be time consuming and costly. we are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the use, handling, storage and disposal of regulated substances and the health and safety of our employees. our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous and radioactive materials and biological waste resulting in the production of hazardous waste products. we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. if any injury or contamination results from our use or the use by our collaborators or licensees of these materials, we may be sued and our liability may exceed our insurance coverage and our total assets. further, we may be required to indemnify our collaborators or licensees against all damages and other liabilities arising out of our development activities or products produced in connection with these collaborations or licenses. compliance with the applicable environmental and workplace laws and regulations is expensive. future changes to environmental, health, workplace and safety laws could cause us to incur additional expense or may restrict our operations or impair our research, development and production efforts. risks relating to our financial results we expect to incur losses in the future and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. we had net losses from inception in 1991 through 1996 and in 1999 through 2011. because of those losses, we had an accumulated deficit of $1.6 billion as of december 31, 2011. we intend to continue to spend significant amounts on our efforts to discover and develop drugs. as a result, we could continue to incur losses in 2012 and in future periods as well. we anticipate that our drug discovery and development efforts and related expenditures will increase as we focus on the studies, including preclinical tests and clinical trials prior to seeking regulatory approval, that are required before we can sell a drug product. the development of drug products will require us to spend significant funds on research, development, testing, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing and marketing. to date, we do not have any drug products that have generated significant revenues and we cannot assure you that we will generate significant revenues from the drug candidates that we license or develop, including jakafi, for several years, if ever. 40 table of contents we cannot be certain whether or when we will achieve profitability because of the significant uncertainties relating to our ability to generate commercially successful drug products. even if we were successful in obtaining regulatory approvals for manufacturing and commercializing a drug candidate, we expect that we will continue to incur losses if our drug products do not generate significant revenues. if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability. we will need additional capital in the future. if we are unable to generate sufficient funds from operations, the capital markets may not permit us to raise additional capital at the time that we require it, which could result in limitations on our research and development or commercialization efforts or the loss of certain of our rights in our technologies or drug candidates. our future funding requirements will depend on many factors and we anticipate that we may need to raise additional capital to fund our business plan and research and development efforts going-forward and to repay our indebtedness. additional factors that may affect our future funding requirements include: the amount of revenues generated from our business activities; any changes in the breadth of our research and development programs; the results of research and development, preclinical testing and clinical trials conducted by us or our future collaborators or licensees, if any; our exercise of any co-development options with collaborators that may require us to fund future development; the acquisition of technologies, if any; our ability to maintain and establish new corporate relationships and research collaborations; competing technological and market developments; the time and costs involved in filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent and intellectual property claims; the receipt of contingent licensing or milestone fees or royalties on product sales from our current or future collaborative and license arrangements, if established; and the timing of regulatory approvals, if any. if we require additional capital at a time when investment in companies such as ours, or in the marketplace generally, is limited due to the then prevailing market or other conditions, we may have to scale back our operations, eliminate one or more of our research or development programs, or attempt to obtain funds by entering into an agreement with a collaborator or licensee that would result in terms that are not favorable to us or relinquishing our rights in certain of our proprietary technologies or drug candidates. if we are unable to raise funds at the time that we desire or at any time thereafter on acceptable terms, we may not be able to continue to develop our potential drug products. the sale of equity or additional convertible debt securities in the future may be dilutive to our stockholders, and debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that could restrict our operations or our ability to incur further indebtedness. 41 table of contents we have a large amount of debt and our debt service obligations may prevent us from taking actions that we would otherwise consider to be in our best interests. as of december 31, 2011, the aggregate principal amount of our total consolidated debt was $420.0 million and our stockholders' deficit was $227.1 million. our substantial leverage could have significant negative consequences for our future operations, including: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital and research and development expenditures, and general corporate purposes; requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our expected cash flow or our existing cash to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our cash available for other purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures and research and development expenditures; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; or placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. we may not generate sufficient cash flow from our operations in the future to enable us to meet our anticipated fixed charges, including our obligations with respect to our outstanding convertible senior notes. as of december 31, 2011, $20.0 million aggregate principal amount of the non-interest bearing convertible subordinated notes held by pfizer was outstanding, of which $10.0 million is due in 2013 and $10.0 million is due in 2014. as of december 31, 2011, $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 4.75% convertible senior notes due 2015 was outstanding and due in october 2015. annual interest payments for our 4.75% convertible senior notes through 2015, assuming that none of these notes are converted, repurchased or exchanged, are $19.0 million. funds sufficient to pay interest payments through october 2012 on our 4.75% convertible senior notes are held in an escrow account as security for these interest payments. if we are unable to generate cash from our operations or raise additional cash through financings sufficient to meet the remaining obligations under our 4.75% convertible senior notes or under our notes held by pfizer, we will need to use existing cash or liquidate marketable securities in order to fund these obligations, which may delay or curtail our research, development and commercialization programs. the indenture governing our 4.75% convertible senior notes includes limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, issue certain preferred stock, and incur liens on our assets, including on intellectual property concerning our jak inhibitor program. these limitations could interfere with our ability to raise additional capital in the future or engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. our marketable securities are subject to certain risks that could adversely affect our overall financial position. we invest our cash in accordance with an established internal policy and customarily in instruments and money market funds which historically have been highly liquid and carried relatively low risk. recently similar types of investments and money market funds have experienced losses in value or liquidity issues which differ from their historical pattern. should a portion of our cash or marketable securities lose value or have their liquidity impaired, it could adversely affect our overall financial position by imperiling our ability to fund our operations and forcing us to seek additional financing sooner than we would otherwise. such financing, if available, may not be available on commercially attractive terms. 42 table of contents our current revenues are derived from jakafi product sales, collaborations and from licensing our intellectual property. if we are unable to achieve milestones, develop products or renew or enter into new collaborations, our revenues may decrease, and future milestone and royalty payments may not contribute significantly to revenues for several years, and may never result in revenues. we derived all of our revenues for the year ended december 31, 2011 from jakafi product sales, our collaborations and licensing our intellectual property to others. future revenues from research and development collaborations depend upon continuation of the collaborations, the achievement of milestones and royalties we earn from any future products developed from our research. if we are unable to successfully achieve milestones or our collaborators fail to develop successful products, we will not earn the future revenues contemplated under our collaborative agreements. risks relating to intellectual property and legal matters if we are subject to arbitration, litigation and infringement claims, they could be costly and disrupt our drug discovery and development efforts. the technology that we use to make and develop our drug products, the technology that we incorporate in our products, and the products we are developing may be subject to claims that they infringe the patents or proprietary rights of others. the success of our drug discovery and development efforts will also depend on our ability to develop new compounds, drugs and technologies without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. we are aware of patents and patent applications filed in certain countries claiming intellectual property relating to some of our drug discovery targets and product candidates. while the validity of issued patents, patentability of pending patent applications and applicability of any of them to our programs are uncertain, if any of these patents are asserted against us or if we choose to license any of these patents, our ability to commercialize our products could be harmed or the potential return to us from any product that may be successfully commercialized could be diminished. from time to time we have received, and we may in the future receive, notices from third parties offering licenses to technology or alleging patent, trademark, or copyright infringement, claims regarding trade secrets or other contract claims. receipt of these notices could result in significant costs as a result of the diversion of the attention of management from our drug discovery and development efforts. parties sending these notices may have brought and in the future may bring litigation against us or seek arbitration relating to contract claims. we may be involved in future lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights or contract violations. in addition, litigation or other legal proceedings may be necessary to: assert claims of infringement; enforce our patents or trademarks; protect our trade secrets or know-how; or determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. we may be unsuccessful in defending or pursuing these lawsuits, claims or other legal proceedings. regardless of the outcome, litigation or other legal proceedings can be very costly and can divert management's efforts. for example, we settled patent litigation with invitrogen corporation in 2006. we incurred significant expenses related to this litigation and, as part of the settlement, paid invitrogen $3.4 million. an adverse determination may subject us to significant liabilities or require us or our collaborators or licensees to seek licenses to other parties' patents or proprietary rights. we or our collaborators or licensees may also be restricted or prevented from manufacturing or selling a drug or other product that we or they develop. further, we or our future collaborators or licensees may not be able 43 table of contents to obtain any necessary licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. if we are unable to develop non-infringing technology or license technology on a timely basis or on reasonable terms, our business could be harmed. we may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our proprietary information, which may result in its unauthorized use, a loss of revenue under a collaboration agreement or loss of sales to generic versions of our products or otherwise reduce our ability to compete in developing and commercializing products. our business and competitive position depends in significant part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology, including any drug products that we create. despite our efforts to protect this information, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. for example, one of our collaborators may disclose proprietary information pertaining to our drug discovery efforts. in addition, while we have filed numerous patent applications with respect to our product candidates in the united states and in foreign countries, our patent applications may fail to result in issued patents. in addition, because patent applications can take several years to issue as patents, there may be pending patent applications of others that may later issue as patents that cover some aspect of our drug candidates. our existing patents and any future patents we may obtain may not be broad enough to protect our products or all of the potential uses of our products, or otherwise prevent others from developing competing products or technologies. in addition, our patents may be challenged and invalidated or may fail to provide us with any competitive advantages if, for example, others were first to invent or first to file a patent application for the technologies and products covered by our patents. additionally, when we do not control the prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of certain important intellectual property, such as a drug compound in-licensed to us or subject to a collaboration with a third party, the protection of the intellectual property rights may not be in our hands. if we do not control the intellectual property rights in-licensed to us with respect to a compound and the entity that controls the intellectual property rights does not adequately protect those rights, our rights may be impaired, which may impact our ability to develop, market and commercialize the in-licensed compound. our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate, and our competitors may: independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, products and techniques; otherwise gain access to our proprietary information; or design around patents issued to us or our other intellectual property. we pursue a policy of having our employees, consultants and advisors execute proprietary information and invention agreements when they begin working for us. however, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. if we fail to maintain trade secret and patent protection, our potential, future revenues may be decreased. if the effective term of our patents is decreased due to changes in the united states patent laws or if we need to refile some of our patent applications, the value of our patent portfolio and the revenues we derive from it may be decreased. the value of our patents depends in part on their duration. a shorter period of patent protection could lessen the value of our rights under any patents that we obtain and may decrease the revenues we derive from our patents. the united states patent laws were amended in 1995 to change the term of patent protection from 17 years from patent issuance to 20 years from the earliest effective filing date of the application. because the time from filing to issuance of biotechnology applications may be more than three years depending on the subject matter, a 20-year patent term from the filing date may result in substantially shorter patent protection. 44 table of contents additionally, united states patent laws were amended in 2011 with the enactment of the america invents act and, effective september 16, 2012, third parties will be able to challenge the validity of issued u.s. patents through various review proceedings; thus rendering the validity of u.s. patents more uncertain. we may be obligated to participate in review proceedings to determine the validity of our u.s. patents. we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these proceedings, the conduct of which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts and resources. if we are unsuccessful in these proceedings some or all of our claims in the patents may be narrowed or invalidated and the patent protection for our drugs and drug candidates in the united states could be substantially shortened. further, if all of the patents covering one of our products are invalidated, the fda could approve requests to manufacture a generic version of that product prior to the expiration date of those patents. international patent protection is particularly uncertain and costly, and if we are involved in opposition proceedings in foreign countries, we may have to expend substantial sums and management resources. biotechnology and pharmaceutical patent law outside the united states is even more uncertain and costly than in the united states and is currently undergoing review and revision in many countries. further, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as united states laws. for example, certain countries do not grant patent claims that are directed to the treatment of humans. we may participate in opposition proceedings to determine the validity of our foreign patents or our competitors' foreign patents, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 63 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our investments in marketable securities, which are composed primarily of u.s. government agency and non-agency mortgage-backed securities and money market funds, are subject to default, changes in credit rating and changes in market value. these investments are also subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market rate interest rates increase. as of december 31, 2011, cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $277.6 million, excluding a funded restricted cash and investment escrow account of $19.0 million reserved for interest payments through october 2012 on our 4.75% convertible senior notes due 2015. due to the nature of these investments, if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as of december 31, 2011, the decline in fair value would not be material. 63 table of contentsrisk factors 25 risk factors risks relating to our lead product jakafi we depend heavily on our lead product, jakafi (ruxolitinib), which is marketed as jakavi outside the united states. if we are unable to successfully commercialize jakafi in its approved indication or to successfully obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize ruxolitinib for the treatment of additional indications, or if we are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, our business may be materially harmed. in november 2011, we received approval from the u.s. food and drug administration, or fda, to market jakafi in the united states for the treatment of intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis. jakafi is our first product to be approved for sale in the united states. although we have received this regulatory approval, such approval does not guarantee future revenues. the commercial success of jakafi and our ability to generate and maintain revenues from the sale of jakafi will depend on a number of factors, including: the number of patients with intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis who are diagnosed with the disease and the number of such patients that may be treated with jakafi; the acceptance of jakafi by patients and the healthcare community; whether physicians, patients and healthcare payors view jakafi as therapeutically effective and safe relative to cost and any alternative therapies; the ability to obtain and maintain sufficient coverage or reimbursement by third-party payors; the ability of our third-party manufacturers to manufacture jakafi in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality; the ability of our company and our third-party providers to provide marketing and distribution support for jakafi; the label and promotional claims allowed by the fda; the maintenance of regulatory approval for the treatment of intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis in the united states; and our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize ruxolitinib in the united states for additional indications. if we are not successful in commercializing jakafi in the united states, or are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, our business may be materially harmed and we may need to delay other drug discovery and development initiatives or even significantly curtail operations. in addition, whether or not we receive royalties under our collaboration agreement with novartis for sales of jakavi outside the united states will depend on factors similar to those listed above for jurisdictions outside the united states. if we are unable to obtain, or maintain at anticipated levels, reimbursement for jakafi from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, our pricing may be affected or our product sales, results of operations or financial condition could be harmed. we may not be able to sell jakafi on a profitable basis or our profitability may be reduced if we are required to sell jakafi at lower than anticipated prices or reimbursement is unavailable or limited in scope or amount. jakafi is expensive and almost all patients will require some form of third party coverage to afford its cost. our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected if we cannot depend on government and other third-party payors to defray the cost of jakafi to the patient. in the united states, there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, efforts to control and reduce 25 table of contents healthcare costs. government and other third-party payors are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting and attempting to limit both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs. if these entities refuse to provide coverage and reimbursement with respect to jakafi, determine to provide a lower level of coverage and reimbursement than anticipated, or reduce previously approved levels of coverage and reimbursement, then our pricing or reimbursement for jakafi may be affected and our product sales, results of operations or financial condition could be harmed. we depend upon a limited number of specialty pharmacies for a significant portion of any revenues from jakafi, and the loss of, or significant reduction in sales to, any one of these specialty pharmacies could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. we sell jakafi primarily to specialty pharmacies, which in turn dispense jakafi to patients in fulfillment of prescriptions. we do not promote jakafi to specialty pharmacies, and specialty pharmacies will not set or determine demand for jakafi. our ability to successfully commercialize jakafi will depend, in part, on the extent to which we are able to provide adequate distribution of jakafi to patients. although we have contracted with a number of specialty pharmacies, these specialty pharmacies are expected generally to carry a very limited inventory and may be reluctant to be part of our distribution network in the future if demand for the product does not increase. further, it is possible that these specialty pharmacies could decide to change their policies or fees, or both, at some time in the future. this could result in their refusal to carry smaller volume products such as jakafi, or cause higher product costs, lower margins or the need to find alternative methods of distributing our product. although we believe we can find alternative channels to distribute jakafi on relatively short notice, our revenue during that period of time may suffer and we may incur additional costs to replace any such specialty pharmacy. the loss of any large specialty pharmacy as part of our distribution network, a significant reduction in sales we make to specialty pharmacies, or any failure to pay for the products we have shipped to them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. if we are unable to establish and maintain effective sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or to enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will not be able to successfully commercialize jakafi. prior to our commercialization of jakafi, we had no experience selling and marketing drug products and with pricing and obtaining adequate third-party reimbursement for drug products. under our collaboration and license agreement with novartis, we have retained commercialization rights to jakafi in the united states. we have established commercial capabilities in the united states, but cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain our own capabilities or enter into and maintain any marketing, distribution or third-party logistics agreements with third-party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. we may not be able to correctly judge the size and experience of the sales and marketing force and the scale of distribution capabilities necessary to successfully market and sell jakafi. establishing and maintaining sales, marketing and distribution capabilities are expensive and time-consuming. competition for personnel with experience in sales and marketing can be high. our expenses associated with building and maintaining the sales force and distribution capabilities may be disproportional compared to the revenues we may be able to generate on sales of jakafi. our reliance on other parties to manufacture jakafi could result in a short supply of jakafi, increased costs, and withdrawal of regulatory approval. we do not currently operate manufacturing facilities for commercial production of jakafi. accordingly, we will be subject to the risks described below under " other risks relating to our business our reliance on other parties to manufacture our drug products and drug candidates could result in a short supply of the drugs, delays in clinical trials or drug development, increased costs, and withdrawal or denial of a regulatory authority's approval." 26 table of contents if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could lose our approval to market jakafi or be subject to other governmental enforcement activity. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain regulatory approval to market jakafi in the united states. if we do not maintain our regulatory approval to market jakafi, our results of operations will be materially harmed. we and our current collaborators, third-party manufacturers and suppliers are subject to rigorous and extensive regulation by the fda and other federal and state agencies. these regulations continue to apply after product marketing approval, and cover, among other things, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, advertising, promotion, risk mitigation, and adverse event reporting requirements. our commercialization of jakafi is subject to post-regulatory approval product surveillance, and jakafi may have to be withdrawn from the market or subject to restrictions if previously unknown problems occur. regulatory agencies may also require additional clinical trials or testing for jakafi, and jakafi may be recalled or may be subject to reformulation, additional studies, changes in labeling, warnings to the public and negative publicity. failure to comply with the laws and requirements, including statutes and regulations, administered by the fda or other agencies could result in: administrative and judicial sanctions, including warning letters; fines and other civil penalties; withdrawal of regulatory approval to market jakafi; interruption of production; operating restrictions; product recall or seizure; injunctions; and criminal prosecution. the occurrence of any such event may have a material adverse effect on our business. if the use of jakafi harms patients, or is perceived to harm patients even when such harm is unrelated to jakafi, our regulatory approval could be revoked or otherwise negatively impacted or we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. the testing of jakafi and the manufacturing, marketing and sale of jakafi expose us to product liability and other risks. side effects and other problems experienced by patients from the use of jakafi could: lessen the frequency with which physicians decide to prescribe jakafi; encourage physicians to stop prescribing jakafi to their patients who previously had been prescribed jakafi; cause serious harm to patients that may give rise to product liability claims against us; and result in our need to withdraw or recall jakafi from the marketplace. if jakafi is used by a wide patient population, new risks and side effects may be discovered, the rate of known risks or side effects may increase, and risks previously viewed as less significant could be determined to be significant. 27 table of contents previously unknown risks and adverse effects of jakafi may also be discovered in connection with unapproved, or off-label, uses of jakafi. we are prohibited by law from promoting or in any way supporting or encouraging the promotion of jakafi for off-label uses, but physicians are permitted to use products for off-label purposes. in addition, we are studying and expect to continue to study jakafi in diseases other than intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis in controlled clinical settings, and independent investigators are doing so as well. in the event of any new risks or adverse effects discovered as new patients are treated for intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis and as jakafi is studied in or used by patients for off-label indications, regulatory authorities may delay or revoke their approvals, we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials, make changes in labeling of jakafi, reformulate jakafi or make changes and obtain new approvals. we may also experience a significant drop in the potential sales of jakafi, experience harm to our reputation and the reputation of jakafi in the marketplace or become subject to lawsuits, including class actions. any of these results could decrease or prevent any sales of jakafi or substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing jakafi. patients who have been enrolled in our clinical trials or who may use jakafi in the future often have severe and advanced stages of disease and known as well as unknown significant pre-existing and potentially life-threatening health risks. during the course of treatment, patients may suffer adverse events, including death, for reasons that may or may not be related to jakafi. such events could subject us to costly litigation, require us to pay substantial amounts of money to injured patients, delay, negatively impact or end our opportunity to receive or maintain regulatory approval to market jakafi, or require us to suspend or abandon our commercialization efforts. even in a circumstance in which we do not believe that an adverse event is related to jakafi, the investigation into the circumstance may be time consuming or inconclusive. these investigations may interrupt our sales efforts, impact and limit the type of regulatory approvals jakafi receives or maintains, or delay the regulatory approval process for our collaborator novartis in other countries. factors similar to those listed above also apply to our collaboration partner novartis for jurisdictions outside the united states. if we market jakafi in a manner that violates various federal and state health care related laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. in addition to fda and related regulatory requirements, we are subject to health care "fraud and abuse" laws, such as the federal false claims act, the anti-kickback provisions of the federal social security act, and other state and federal laws and regulations. federal and state anti-kickback laws prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce, or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any health care item or service reimbursable under medicare, medicaid, or other federally- or state-financed health care programs. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities. although physicians are permitted, based on their medical judgment, to prescribe products for indications other than those approved by the fda, manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products for such off-label uses. we market jakafi for intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis and provide promotional materials to physicians regarding the use of jakafi for this indication. although we believe that our promotional materials for physicians do not constitute off-label promotion of jakafi, the fda or other agencies may disagree. if the fda or another agency determines that our promotional materials or other activities constitute off-label promotion of jakafi, it could request that we modify our promotional materials or other activities or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. it is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they believe that the alleged 28 table of contents improper promotion led to the submission and payment of claims for an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. even if it is later determined we are not in violation of these laws, we may be faced with negative publicity, incur significant expenses defending our position and have to divert significant management resources from other matters. the majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. in recent years, several states and localities, including california, connecticut, the district of columbia, massachusetts, minnesota, nevada, new mexico, texas, vermont, and west virginia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. similar legislation is being considered in other states. additionally, as part of the patient protection and affordable care act, the federal government has enacted the physician payment sunshine provisions. the sunshine provisions will require manufacturers to begin collecting data in 2013 and to publicly report starting in 2014 certain payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals. many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements are unclear. nonetheless, if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement action and fines and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity. see also " other risks relating to our business if we fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory requirements affecting the health care industry, we could face increased costs, penalties and a loss of business" below. other risks relating to our business we may be unsuccessful in our efforts to discover and develop drug candidates and commercialize drug products. none of our drug candidates, other than jakafi/jakavi, has received regulatory approval. our ability to discover and develop drug candidates and to commercialize additional drug products will depend on our ability to: hire and retain key employees; identify high quality therapeutic targets; identify potential drug candidates; develop products internally or license drug candidates from others; identify and enroll suitable human subjects, either in the united states or abroad, for our clinical trials; complete laboratory testing and clinical trials on humans; obtain and maintain necessary intellectual property rights to our products; obtain and maintain necessary regulatory approvals for our products, both in the united states and abroad; enter into arrangements with third parties to provide services or to manufacture our products on our behalf; deploy sales and marketing resources effectively or enter into arrangements with third parties to provide these functions in compliance with all applicable laws; obtain appropriate coverage and reimbursement levels for the cost of our products from governmental authorities, private health insurers and other third party payors; 29 table of contents lease facilities at reasonable rates to support our growth; and enter into arrangements with third parties to license and commercialize our products. we have limited experience with the activities listed above and may not be successful in discovering, developing, or commercializing drug products. discovery and development of drug candidates are expensive and time-consuming, and we do not know if our efforts will lead to discovery of any drug candidates that can be successfully developed and marketed. of the compounds that we identify as potential drug products or that we may in-license from other companies, only a few, if any, are likely to lead to successful drug development programs and commercialized drug products. we depend heavily on the success of our most advanced drug candidates. we might not be able to commercialize any of our drug candidates successfully, and we may spend significant time and money attempting to do so. we have invested significant resources in the development of our most advanced drug candidates. in addition to the commercial launch of jakafi for the treatment of intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis, ruxolitinib is also in a phase iii clinical trial for the treatment of polycythemia vera as well as in other clinical trials. further, we have a number of drug candidates in phase i and phase ii clinical trials. our ability to generate product revenues will depend on the successful development and eventual commercialization of our most advanced drug candidates. we, or our collaborators or licensees, may decide to discontinue development of any or all of our drug candidates at any time for commercial, scientific or other reasons. for example, in march 2008, we announced that we would not advance our lead ccr5 antagonist into phase iib trials and, in september 2011, we announced that we had discontinued development of our lead sheddase inhibitor, incb7839, for the treatment of breast cancer. if a product is developed, but is not marketed, we may have spent significant amounts of time and money on it, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the success of our drug discovery and development efforts may depend on our ability to find suitable collaborators to fully exploit our capabilities. if we are unable to establish collaborations or if these future collaborations are unsuccessful in the development and commercialization of our drug candidates, our research, development and commercialization efforts may be unsuccessful, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. an important element of our business strategy is to enter into collaborative or license arrangements with other parties, such as our collaborations with novartis and lilly for our jak inhibitors, under which we license our drug candidates to those parties for development and commercialization. we are evaluating strategic relationships with respect to several of our other programs and may enter into an agreement with respect to one or more of these programs in the future. however, because collaboration and license arrangements are complex to negotiate, we may not be successful in our attempts to establish these arrangements. also, we may not have drug candidates that are desirable to other parties, or we may be unwilling to license a drug candidate because the party interested in it is a competitor. the terms of any such arrangements that we establish may not be favorable to us. alternatively, potential collaborators may decide against entering into an agreement with us because of our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position or for scientific, commercial or other reasons. if we are not able to establish collaboration or license arrangements, we may not be able to develop and commercialize a drug product, which could adversely affect our business and our revenues. in order for any of these collaboration or license arrangements to be successful, we must first identify potential collaborators or licensees whose capabilities complement and integrate well with ours. we may rely on these arrangements for not only financial resources, but also for expertise or economies of scale that we expect to need in the future relating to clinical trials, manufacturing, sales and marketing, and for licenses to technology rights. however, it is likely that we will not be able to control the amount and timing 30 table of contents of resources that our collaborators or licensees devote to our programs or drug candidates. if our collaborators or licensees prove difficult to work with, are less skilled than we originally expected, do not devote adequate resources to the program, or do not agree with our approach to development or manufacturing of the drug candidate, the relationship could be unsuccessful. if a business combination involving a collaborator or licensee and a third party were to occur, the effect could be to terminate or cause delays in development of a drug candidate. we depend on our collaborators and licensees for the future development and commercialization of some of our drug candidates. conflicts may arise between our collaborators and licensees and us, or our collaborators and licensees may choose to terminate their agreements with us, which may adversely affect our business. we have licensed to novartis rights to ruxolitinib outside of the united states and worldwide rights to our c-met inhibitor compounds and licensed to lilly worldwide rights to baricitinib. we have also licensed to pfizer our portfolio of ccr2 antagonist compounds. under the terms of our agreements with these collaborators, we have no or limited control over the further clinical development of these drug candidates and any revenues we may receive if these drug candidates receive regulatory approval and are commercialized will depend primarily on the development and commercialization efforts of others. we intend to seek other collaborative or licensing arrangements with respect to other of our drug candidates, but do not know whether we will be able to enter into any such arrangement on acceptable terms, if at all. conflicts may arise with our current or future collaborators and licensees if they pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products either on their own or in collaboration with others as a means for developing treatments for the diseases that we have targeted. competing products and product opportunities may lead our collaborators and licensees to withdraw their support for our drug candidates. any failure of our collaborators and licensees to perform their obligations under our agreements with them or otherwise to support our drug candidates could negatively impact the development of our compounds and drug candidates, lead to our loss of potential revenues from product sales and milestones and delay our achievement, if any, of profitability. additionally, conflicts may arise if, among other things, there is a dispute about the achievement and payment of a milestone amount or the ownership of intellectual property that is developed during the course of a collaborative relationship. our existing collaborative and license agreements can be terminated by our collaborators and licensees for convenience, among other circumstances. if any of our collaborators or licensees terminates its agreement with us, or terminates its rights with respect to certain indications or compounds, we may not be able to find a new collaborator for them, and our business could be adversely affected. should an agreement be terminated before we have realized the benefits of the collaboration or license, our reputation could be harmed, we may not obtain revenues that we anticipated receiving, and our business could be adversely affected. although we obtained a special protocol assessment agreement for ruxolitinib for polycythemia vera, a special protocol assessment agreement does not guarantee any particular outcome from regulatory review, including any regulatory approval. we have obtained a special protocol assessment, or spa, agreement for the registration trial for ruxolitinib for the treatment of polycythemia vera in the united states. the spa process allows for fda evaluation of a clinical trial protocol intended to form the primary basis of an efficacy claim in support of a new drug application, or nda, and provides a product sponsor with an agreement confirming that the design and size of a trial will be appropriate to form the primary basis of an efficacy claim for an nda if the trial is performed according to the spa. even if we believe that the data from a clinical trial are supportive, an spa is not a guarantee of approval, and we cannot be certain that the design of, or data collected from, a trial will be adequate to demonstrate safety and efficacy, or otherwise be sufficient to support regulatory approval. there can be no assurance that the terms of an spa will ultimately be binding 31 table of contents on the fda, and the fda is not obligated to approve an nda, if any, even if the clinical outcome is positive. the fda retains significant latitude and discretion in interpreting the terms of an spa and the data and results from a clinical trial, and can require trial design changes or additional studies if issues arise essential to determining safety or efficacy. data may subsequently become available that causes the fda to reconsider the previously agreed upon scope of review and the fda may have subsequent safety or efficacy concerns that override an spa, and we can give no assurance that as clinical trials proceed or as part of an nda review process, if any, the fda will determine that a previously approved spa is still valid. additionally, an spa may be changed only with the written agreement of the fda, and any further changes we may propose to the protocol will remain subject to the fda's approval. the fda may not agree to any such amendment and, even if they agree, they may request other amendments to the trial design that could require additional cost and time, as well as increase the degree of difficulty in reaching clinical endpoints. as a result, even with an spa, we cannot be certain that the trial results will be found to be adequate to support an efficacy claim and product approval. even if a drug candidate that we develop receives regulatory approval, we may decide not to commercialize it if we determine that commercialization of that product would require more money and time than we are willing to invest. even if any of our drug candidates receives regulatory approval, it could be subject to post-regulatory surveillance, and may have to be withdrawn from the market or subject to restrictions if previously unknown problems occur. regulatory agencies may also require additional clinical trials or testing, and the drug product may be recalled or may be subject to reformulation, additional studies, changes in labeling, warnings to the public and negative publicity. as a result, we may not continue to commercialize a product even though it has obtained regulatory approval. further, we may decide not to continue to commercialize a product if the market does not accept the product because it is too expensive or because third parties such as insurance companies or medicare have not approved it for substantial reimbursement. in addition, we may decide not to continue to commercialize a product if competitors develop and commercialize similar or superior products or have proprietary rights that preclude us from ultimately marketing our products. if we fail to enter into additional licensing agreements or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our business and operations might be adversely affected. in addition to establishing collaborative or license arrangements under which other parties license our drug candidates for development and commercialization, we may explore opportunities to develop our clinical pipeline by in-licensing drug candidates that fit within our expertise and research and development capabilities. we may be unable to enter into any additional in-licensing agreements because suitable drug candidates that are within our expertise may not be available to us on terms that are acceptable to us or because competitors with greater resources seek to in-license the same drug candidates. drug candidates that we would like to develop may not be available to us because they are controlled by competitors who are unwilling to license the rights to the drug candidate to us. in addition, we may enter into license agreements that are unsuccessful and our business and operations might be adversely affected by the termination of a drug candidate and termination and winding down of the related license agreement. we may also need to license drug delivery or other technology in order to continue to develop our drug candidate pipeline. if we are unable to enter into additional agreements to license drug candidates, drug delivery technology or other technology or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our research and development efforts could be adversely affected. 32 table of contents any approved drug product that we bring to the market may not gain market acceptance by physicians, patients, healthcare payors and others in the medical community. even if we are successful in gaining regulatory approval of any of our drug candidates in addition to jakafi for the treatment of intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis in the united states, we may not generate significant product revenues and we may not become profitable if these drug products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance. physicians may not recommend our drug products until longer-term clinical data or other factors demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our drug products as compared to other alternative treatments. even if the clinical safety and efficacy of our drug products is established, physicians may elect not to prescribe these drug products for a variety of reasons, including the reimbursement policies of government and other third-party payors and the effectiveness of our competitors in marketing their products. market acceptance of our drug products, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including: the willingness and ability of patients and the healthcare community to use our products; the ability to manufacture our drug products in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality and to offer our drug products for sale at competitive prices; the perception of patients and the healthcare community, including third-party payors, regarding the safety, efficacy and benefits of our drug products compared to those of competing products or therapies; the label and promotional claims allowed by the fda; the pricing and reimbursement of our drug products relative to existing treatments; and marketing and distribution support for our drug products. we have limited expertise with and capacity to conduct preclinical testing and clinical trials, and our resulting dependence on other parties could result in delays in and additional costs for our drug development efforts. we have limited experience with, and internal resources and capacity to perform, preclinical testing and clinical trials. as part of our development strategy, we often hire clinical research organizations, or cros, to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials for drug candidates. if the cros that we hire to perform our preclinical testing and clinical trials do not meet deadlines, do not follow proper procedures, or a conflict arises between us and our cros, our preclinical testing and clinical trials may take longer than expected, may cost more, may be delayed or may be terminated. if we were forced to find a replacement entity to perform any of our preclinical testing or clinical trials, we may not be able to find a suitable entity on favorable terms, or at all. even if we were able to find another company to perform a preclinical test or clinical trial, the delay in the test or trial may result in significant additional expenditures. events such as these may result in delays in our obtaining regulatory approval for our drug candidates or our ability to commercialize our products and could result in increased expenditures that would adversely affect our operating results. if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates in the united states and foreign jurisdictions, we will not be permitted to commercialize products resulting from our research. in order to commercialize drug products in the united states, our drug candidates will have to obtain regulatory approval from the fda. satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years. to obtain regulatory approval, we must first show that our drug candidates are safe and effective for target indications through preclinical testing (animal testing) and clinical trials (human testing). preclinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes, and we do not know whether 33 table of contents the fda will allow us to undertake clinical trials of any drug candidates in addition to our compounds currently in clinical trials. completion of clinical trials may take several years and failure may occur at any stage of testing. the length of time required varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the drug candidate. interim results of a preclinical test or clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results, and acceptable results in early clinical trials may not be repeated in later clinical trials. for example, a drug candidate that is successful at the preclinical level may cause harmful or dangerous side effects when tested at the clinical level. our rate of commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including: the high degree of risk associated with drug development; our inability to formulate or manufacture sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials; variability in the number and types of patients available for each study; difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, resulting in incomplete data; unforeseen safety issues or side effects; poor or unanticipated effectiveness of drug candidates during the clinical trials; or government or regulatory delays. data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretation, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. many companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving promising results in earlier clinical trials. in addition, regulatory authorities may refuse or delay approval as a result of other factors, such as changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development and regulatory agency review. for example, the fda has in the past required and could in the future require that we conduct additional trials of any of our drug candidates, which would result in delays. we have licensed to other companies certain rights to our jak1 and jak2 inhibitor compounds and c-met inhibitor compounds and our portfolio of ccr2 antagonist compounds. we have no or limited control over the further clinical development of any compounds we licensed to these collaborators. compounds developed by us or with or by our collaborators may not prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials and may not meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements needed to receive marketing approval. if regulatory approval of a product is granted, this approval will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which the product is demonstrated through clinical trials to be safe and effective. failure to obtain regulatory approval would delay or prevent us from commercializing products. outside the united states, our ability to market a product is contingent upon receiving a marketing authorization from the appropriate regulatory authorities. this foreign regulatory approval process typically includes all of the risks associated with the fda approval process described above and may also include additional risks. the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country and may require us to perform additional testing and expend additional resources. approval by the fda does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or by the fda. we face significant competition for our drug discovery and development efforts, and if we do not compete effectively, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated. the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. our drug discovery and development efforts may target diseases and conditions that are already subject to existing therapies or that are being developed by our competitors, 34 table of contents many of which have substantially greater resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, more experience in completing preclinical testing and clinical trials, and formulation, marketing and manufacturing capabilities. as a result of these resources, our competitors may develop drug products that render our products obsolete or noncompetitive by developing more effective drugs or by developing their products more efficiently. our ability to develop competitive products would be limited if our competitors succeeded in obtaining regulatory approvals for drug candidates more rapidly than we were able to or in obtaining patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limited our drug development efforts. any drug products resulting from our research and development efforts, or from our joint efforts with collaborators or licensees, might not be able to compete successfully with our competitors' existing and future products, or obtain regulatory approval in the united states or elsewhere. our reliance on other parties to manufacture our drug products and drug candidates could result in a short supply of the drugs, delays in clinical trials or drug development, increased costs, and withdrawal or denial of a regulatory authority's approval. we do not currently operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of jakafi and our other drug candidates. we currently hire third parties to manufacture the raw materials, api and finished drug product of jakafi and our other drug candidates for clinical trials. in addition, we expect to continue to rely on third parties for the manufacture of commercial supplies of raw materials, api and finished drug product for any drugs that we successfully develop. for jakafi and most of our drug candidates, we hire third parties to manufacture the raw materials, another third party to manufacture the api and another to make the finished drug product and to package and label the finished product. the fda requires that the raw materials, api and finished product for jakafi and our other drug candidates be manufactured according to its current good manufacturing practices regulations and regulatory authorities in other countries have similar requirements. there are only a limited number of manufacturers that comply with these requirements. failure to comply with current good manufacturing practices and the applicable regulatory requirements of other countries in the manufacture of our drug candidates and products could result in the fda or foreign regulatory authority halting our clinical trials, withdrawing or denying regulatory approval of our drug product, enforcing product recalls or other enforcement actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of our drug candidates or any drug products we may develop if our designated manufacturers do not have the capacity or capability to manufacture them according to our schedule and specifications. in addition, we may not be able to arrange for our drug candidates or any drug products that we may develop to be manufactured by one of these parties on reasonable terms, if at all. also, required raw materials may only be available from a limited number of suppliers and, in the case of jakafi, are currently supplied by a single source. as noted above, generally, we have only single sources that are qualified to supply each of the api and finished product of jakafi and our other drug candidates. if any of these single source suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to supply us with raw materials, api or finished product that complies with applicable regulatory requirements, we could incur significant delays in our clinical trials or interruption of commercial supply that could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are currently in the process of qualifying a second source of supply for the api for jakafi, however, there is no assurance that we will be able to identify and qualify a second source of supply for jakafi. if we have promised delivery of a drug candidate or drug product and are unable to meet the delivery requirement due to manufacturing difficulties, our development programs could be delayed, we may have to expend additional sums in order to ensure that manufacturing capacity is available when we need it even if we do not use all of the manufacturing capacity, and our business and operating results could be harmed. manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, especially in scaling up initial production. these problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality 35 table of contents control and assurance and shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. in order to obtain approval of our products by the fda and foreign regulatory agencies, we need to complete testing on both the api and on the finished product in the packaging we propose for commercial sales. this includes testing of stability, identification of impurities and testing of other product specifications by validated test methods. in addition, we will be required to consistently produce the api in commercial quantities and of specified quality on a repeated basis and document our ability to do so. this requirement is referred to as process validation. we may not be able to adequately manage and oversee the manufacturers we choose, they may not perform as agreed or they may terminate their agreements with us. foreign manufacturing approval processes typically include all of the risks associated with the fda approval process for manufacturing and may also include additional risks. if we fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory requirements affecting the health care industry, we could face increased costs, penalties and a loss of business. our activities, and the activities of our collaborators, partners and third party providers, are subject to extensive government regulation and oversight both in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions. the fda and comparable agencies in other jurisdictions directly regulate many of our most critical business activities, including the conduct of preclinical and clinical studies, product manufacturing, advertising and promotion, product distribution, adverse event reporting and product risk management. states increasingly have been placing greater restrictions on the marketing practices of healthcare companies. in addition, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been the target of lawsuits and investigations alleging violations of government regulations, including claims asserting submission of incorrect pricing information, impermissible off-label promotion of pharmaceutical products, payments intended to influence the referral of federal or state healthcare business, submission of false claims for government reimbursement, antitrust violations, violations of the foreign corrupt practices act, or violations related to environmental matters. violations of governmental regulation may be punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in government programs, including medicare and medicaid. in addition to penalties for violation of laws and regulations, we could be required to repay amounts we received from government payors, or pay additional rebates and interest if we are found to have miscalculated the pricing information we have submitted to the government. whether or not we have complied with the law, an investigation into alleged unlawful conduct could increase our expenses, damage our reputation, divert management time and attention and adversely affect our business. health care reform measures could impact the pricing and profitability of pharmaceuticals, and adversely affect the commercial viability of our drug candidates. our ability to generate revenues will be diminished if we are unable to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement from private insurers, government insurance programs or other third-party payors of health care costs, which could be affected by recent healthcare reform legislation. our ability to commercialize our drug candidates successfully will depend in part on the extent to which adequate reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatment are obtained from third-party payors, such as private insurers, government insurance programs, including medicare and medicaid, health maintenance organizations (hmos) and other health care related organizations. the continuing efforts of these third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care by challenging the prices charged for medical products and services may affect our future revenues and profitability, and the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers, collaborators and licensees and the availability of capital. 36 table of contents in recent years, through legislative and regulatory actions, the federal government has made substantial changes to various payment systems under the medicare and other federal health care programs. comprehensive reforms to the u.s. healthcare system were recently enacted, including changes to the methods for, and amounts of, medicare reimbursement. these reforms could significantly reduce payments from medicare and medicaid. reforms or other changes to these payment systems, may change the availability, methods and rates of reimbursements from medicare, private insurers and other third-party payors for our drug candidates. some of these changes and proposed changes could result in reduced reimbursement rates, which could reduce the price that we or any of our collaborators or licensees receive for any products, if commercialized, in the future, and which would adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. further federal and state proposals and health care reforms are possible, which could limit the prices that can be charged for any of our drug candidates and may further limit the commercial viability of our drug candidates. in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. if reimbursement for our products, if commercialized, is unavailable, limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our business could be materially harmed. there may be future changes that result in reductions in current coverage and reimbursement levels for our drug candidates, and we cannot predict the scope of any future changes or the impact that those changes would have on our operations. third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. also, the trend toward managed health care in the united states, the organizations for which could control or significantly influence the purchase of health care services and products, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may all result in lower prices for or rejection of our products. adoption of our drug candidates by the medical community may be limited without adequate reimbursement for our products. cost control initiatives may decrease coverage and payment levels for our drug candidates and, in turn, the price that we will be able to charge for any product, if commercialized. our drug candidates may not be considered cost-effective, and coverage and reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis. we are unable to predict all changes to the coverage or reimbursement methodologies that will be applied by private or government payors to our drug candidates. the cost containment measures that health care payors and providers are instituting and any denial of private or government payor coverage or inadequate reimbursement for our drug candidates could materially and adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. as our drug discovery and development operations are conducted at our headquarters in wilmington, delaware, the loss of access to this facility would negatively impact our business. our facility in wilmington, delaware is our headquarters and is also where we conduct all of our drug discovery, research, development and marketing activities. our lease contains provisions that provide for its early termination upon the occurrence of certain events of default or upon a change of control. further, our headquarters facility is located in a large research and development complex that may be temporarily or permanently shut down if certain environmental or other hazardous conditions were to occur within the complex. in addition, natural disasters or actions of activists opposed to aspects of pharmaceutical research may disrupt our experiments or our ability to access or use our facilities. the loss of access to or use of our wilmington, delaware, facility, either on a temporary or permanent basis, or early termination of our lease would result in an interruption of our business and, consequently, would adversely affect our overall business. 37 table of contents we depend on key employees in a competitive market for skilled personnel, and the loss of the services of any of our key employees or our inability to attract and retain additional personnel would affect our ability to expand our drug discovery and development programs and achieve our objectives. we are highly dependent on the members of our executive management team and principal members of our commercial, development, medical, operations and scientific staff. we experience intense competition for qualified personnel. our future success also depends in part on the continued service of our executive management team and key personnel and our ability to recruit, train and retain essential personnel for our drug discovery and development programs, and for our medical affairs and commercialization activities. if we lose the services of any of these people or if we are unable to recruit sufficient qualified personnel, our research and product development goals, and our commercialization efforts could be delayed or curtailed. we do not maintain "key person" insurance on any of our employees. if we fail to manage our growth effectively, our ability to develop and commercialize products could suffer. we expect that if our drug discovery efforts continue to generate drug candidates, our clinical drug candidates continue to progress in development, and we continue to build our development, medical and commercial organizations, we will require significant additional investment in personnel, management and resources. our ability to achieve our research, development and commercialization objectives depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands and expand our internal organization, systems, controls and facilities to accommodate additional anticipated growth. if we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business could be harmed and our ability to execute our business strategy could suffer. if product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we could face substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products and our results of operations could be harmed. in addition to the risks described above under "if the use of jakafi harms patients, or is perceived to harm patients even when such harm is unrelated to jakafi, our regulatory approval could be revoked or otherwise negatively impacted or we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims," the conduct of clinical trials of medical products that are intended for human use entails an inherent risk of product liability. if any product that we or any of our collaborators or licensees develops causes or is alleged to cause injury during clinical trials or commercialization, we may be held liable. if we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities, including substantial damages to be paid to the plaintiffs and legal costs, or we may be required to limit further development and commercialization of our products. additionally, any product liability lawsuit could cause injury to our reputation, participants and investigators to withdraw from clinical trials, and potential collaborators or licensees to seek other partners, any of which could impact our results of operations. our product liability insurance policy may not fully cover our potential liabilities. in addition, we may determine that we should increase our coverage, and this insurance may be prohibitively expensive to us or our collaborators or licensees and may not fully cover our potential liabilities. our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the development or commercialization of our drug candidates and products. because our activities involve the use of hazardous materials, we may be subject to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials that could be time consuming and costly. we are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the use, handling, storage and disposal of regulated substances and the health and safety of our employees. our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous and radioactive materials and biological waste resulting in the production of hazardous waste products. we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury 38 table of contents from these materials. if any injury or contamination results from our use or the use by our collaborators or licensees of these materials, we may be sued and our liability may exceed our insurance coverage and our total assets. further, we may be required to indemnify our collaborators or licensees against all damages and other liabilities arising out of our development activities or products produced in connection with these collaborations or licenses. compliance with the applicable environmental and workplace laws and regulations is expensive. future changes to environmental, health, workplace and safety laws could cause us to incur additional expense or may restrict our operations or impair our research, development and production efforts. risks relating to our financial results we expect to incur losses in the future and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. we had net losses from inception in 1991 through 1996 and in 1999 through december 31, 2012. because of those losses, we had an accumulated deficit of $1.7 billion as of december 31, 2012. we intend to continue to spend significant amounts on our efforts to discover and develop drugs. as a result, we could continue to incur losses in 2013 and in future periods as well. we anticipate that our drug discovery and development efforts and related expenditures will increase as we focus on the studies, including preclinical tests and clinical trials prior to seeking regulatory approval, that are required before we can sell a drug product. the development of drug products will require us to spend significant funds on research, development, testing, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing and marketing. to date, we do not have any drug products that have generated significant revenues and we cannot assure you that we will generate significant revenues from the drug candidates that we license or develop, including jakafi, for several years, if ever. we cannot be certain whether or when we will achieve profitability because of the significant uncertainties relating to our ability to generate commercially successful drug products. even if we are successful in obtaining regulatory approvals for manufacturing and commercializing drug products in addition to jakafi, we expect that we will continue to incur losses if our drug products do not generate significant revenues. if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability. we will need additional capital in the future. if we are unable to generate sufficient funds from operations, the capital markets may not permit us to raise additional capital at the time that we require it, which could result in limitations on our research and development or commercialization efforts or the loss of certain of our rights in our technologies or drug candidates. our future funding requirements will depend on many factors and we anticipate that we may need to raise additional capital to fund our business plan and research and development efforts going-forward and to repay our indebtedness. additional factors that may affect our future funding requirements include: the amount of revenues generated from our business activities; any changes in the breadth of our research and development programs; the results of research and development, preclinical testing and clinical trials conducted by us or our current or future collaborators or licensees, if any; our exercise of any co-development options with collaborators that may require us to fund future development; the acquisition of technologies, if any; 39 table of contents our ability to maintain and establish new corporate relationships and research collaborations; competing technological and market developments; the time and costs involved in filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent and intellectual property claims; the receipt of contingent licensing or milestone fees or royalties on product sales from our current or future collaborative and license arrangements, if established; and the timing of regulatory approvals, if any. if we require additional capital at a time when investment in companies such as ours, or in the marketplace generally, is limited due to the then prevailing market or other conditions, we may have to scale back our operations, eliminate one or more of our research or development programs, or attempt to obtain funds by entering into an agreement with a collaborator or licensee that would result in terms that are not favorable to us or relinquishing our rights in certain of our proprietary technologies or drug candidates. if we are unable to raise funds at the time that we desire or at any time thereafter on acceptable terms, we may not be able to continue to develop our drug candidates. the sale of equity or additional convertible debt securities in the future may be dilutive to our stockholders, and debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that could restrict our operations or our ability to incur further indebtedness. we have a large amount of debt and our debt service obligations may prevent us from taking actions that we would otherwise consider to be in our best interests. as of december 31, 2012, the aggregate principal amount of our total consolidated debt was $410.0 million and our stockholders' deficit was $175.0 million. our substantial leverage could have significant negative consequences for our future operations, including: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital and research and development expenditures, and general corporate purposes; requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our expected cash flow or our existing cash to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our cash available for other purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures and research and development expenditures; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; or placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. we may not generate sufficient cash flow from our operations in the future to enable us to meet our anticipated fixed charges, including our obligations with respect to our outstanding convertible senior notes. as of december 31, 2012, a $10.0 million aggregate principal amount non-interest bearing convertible subordinated note due in 2014 and held by pfizer was outstanding. as of december 31, 2012, $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 4.75% convertible senior notes due 2015 was outstanding and due in october 2015. annual interest payments for our 4.75% convertible senior notes through 2015, assuming that none of these notes are converted, repurchased or exchanged, are $19.0 million. if we are unable to generate cash from our operations or raise additional cash through financings sufficient to meet the remaining obligations under our 4.75% convertible senior notes or under our note held by pfizer, we will need to use existing cash or liquidate marketable securities in order to fund these obligations, which may delay or curtail our research, development and commercialization programs. 40 table of contents the indenture governing our 4.75% convertible senior notes includes limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, issue certain preferred stock, and incur liens on our assets, including on intellectual property concerning our jak inhibitor program. these limitations could interfere with our ability to raise additional capital in the future or engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. our marketable securities are subject to certain risks that could adversely affect our overall financial position. we invest our cash in accordance with an established internal policy and customarily in instruments and money market funds which historically have been highly liquid and carried relatively low risk. recently similar types of investments and money market funds have experienced losses in value or liquidity issues which differ from their historical pattern. should a portion of our cash or marketable securities lose value or have their liquidity impaired, it could adversely affect our overall financial position by imperiling our ability to fund our operations and forcing us to seek additional financing sooner than we would otherwise. such financing, if available, may not be available on commercially attractive terms. our current revenues are derived from jakafi product sales, jakavi product royalties, collaborations and from licensing our intellectual property. if we are unable to achieve milestones, develop products or renew or enter into new collaborations, our revenues may decrease, and future milestone and royalty payments may not contribute significantly to revenues for several years, and may never result in revenues. we derived all of our revenues for the year ended december 31, 2012 from jakafi product revenues, jakavi product royalties and our collaborations and licensing our intellectual property to others. future revenues from research and development collaborations depend upon continuation of the collaborations, the achievement of milestones and royalties we earn from any future products developed from our research. if we are unable to successfully achieve milestones or our collaborators fail to develop successful products, we will not earn the future revenues contemplated under our collaborative agreements. risks relating to intellectual property and legal matters if we are subject to arbitration, litigation and infringement claims, they could be costly and disrupt our drug discovery and development efforts. the technology that we use to make and develop our drug products, the technology that we incorporate in our products, and the products we are developing may be subject to claims that they infringe the patents or proprietary rights of others. the success of our drug discovery and development efforts will also depend on our ability to develop new compounds, drugs and technologies without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. we are aware of patents and patent applications filed in certain countries claiming intellectual property relating to some of our drug discovery targets and drug candidates. while the validity of issued patents, patentability of pending patent applications and applicability of any of them to our programs are uncertain, if any of these patents are asserted against us or if we choose to license any of these patents, our ability to commercialize our products could be harmed or the potential return to us from any product that may be successfully commercialized could be diminished. from time to time we have received, and we may in the future receive, notices from third parties offering licenses to technology or alleging patent, trademark, or copyright infringement, claims regarding trade secrets or other contract claims. receipt of these notices could result in significant costs as a result of the diversion of the attention of management from our drug discovery and development efforts. parties sending these notices may have brought and in the future may bring litigation against us or seek arbitration relating to contract claims. 41 table of contents we may be involved in future lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights or contract violations. in addition, litigation or other legal proceedings may be necessary to: assert claims of infringement; enforce our patents or trademarks; protect our trade secrets or know-how; or determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. we may be unsuccessful in defending or pursuing these lawsuits, claims or other legal proceedings. regardless of the outcome, litigation or other legal proceedings can be very costly and can divert management's efforts. for example, we settled patent litigation with invitrogen corporation in 2006. we incurred significant expenses related to this litigation and, as part of the settlement, paid invitrogen $3.4 million. an adverse determination may subject us to significant liabilities or require us or our collaborators or licensees to seek licenses to other parties' patents or proprietary rights. we or our collaborators or licensees may also be restricted or prevented from manufacturing or selling a drug or other product that we or they develop. further, we or our future collaborators or licensees may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. if we are unable to develop non-infringing technology or license technology on a timely basis or on reasonable terms, our business could be harmed. we may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our proprietary information, which may result in its unauthorized use, a loss of revenue under a collaboration agreement or loss of sales to generic versions of our products or otherwise reduce our ability to compete in developing and commercializing products. our business and competitive position depends in significant part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology, including any drug products that we create. despite our efforts to protect this information, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. for example, one of our collaborators may disclose proprietary information pertaining to our drug discovery efforts. in addition, while we have filed numerous patent applications with respect to our drug candidates in the united states and in foreign countries, our patent applications may fail to result in issued patents. in addition, because patent applications can take several years to issue as patents, there may be pending patent applications of others that may later issue as patents that cover some aspect of our drug candidates. our existing patents and any future patents we may obtain may not be broad enough to protect our products or all of the potential uses of our products, or otherwise prevent others from developing competing products or technologies. in addition, our patents may be challenged and invalidated or may fail to provide us with any competitive advantages if, for example, others were first to invent or first to file a patent application for the technologies and products covered by our patents. additionally, when we do not control the prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of certain important intellectual property, such as a drug compound in-licensed to us or subject to a collaboration with a third party, the protection of the intellectual property rights may not be in our hands. if we do not control the intellectual property rights in-licensed to us with respect to a compound and the entity that controls the intellectual property rights does not adequately protect those rights, our rights may be impaired, which may impact our ability to develop, market and commercialize the in-licensed compound. our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate, and our competitors may: independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, products and techniques; otherwise gain access to our proprietary information; or design around patents issued to us or our other intellectual property. 42 table of contents we pursue a policy of having our employees, consultants and advisors execute proprietary information and invention agreements when they begin working for us. however, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. if we fail to maintain trade secret and patent protection, our potential, future revenues may be decreased. if the effective term of our patents is decreased due to changes in the united states patent laws or if we need to refile some of our patent applications, the value of our patent portfolio and the revenues we derive from it may be decreased. the value of our patents depends in part on their duration. a shorter period of patent protection could lessen the value of our rights under any patents that we obtain and may decrease the revenues we derive from our patents. the united states patent laws were amended in 1995 to change the term of patent protection from 17 years from patent issuance to 20 years from the earliest effective filing date of the application. because the time from filing to issuance of biotechnology applications may be more than three years depending on the subject matter, a 20-year patent term from the filing date may result in substantially shorter patent protection. additionally, united states patent laws were amended in 2011 with the enactment of the america invents act and third parties are now able to challenge the validity of issued u.s. patents through various review proceedings; thus rendering the validity of u.s. patents more uncertain. other changes in the united states patent laws or changes in the interpretation of patent laws could diminish the value of our patents or narrow the scope of our patent protection. we may be obligated to participate in review proceedings to determine the validity of our u.s. patents. we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these proceedings, the conduct of which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts and resources. if we are unsuccessful in these proceedings some or all of our claims in the patents may be narrowed or invalidated and the patent protection for our drugs and drug candidates in the united states could be substantially shortened. further, if all of the patents covering one of our products are invalidated, the fda could approve requests to manufacture a generic version of that product prior to the expiration date of those patents. international patent protection is particularly uncertain and costly, and our involvement in opposition proceedings in foreign countries may result in the expenditure of substantial sums and management resources. biotechnology and pharmaceutical patent law outside the united states is even more uncertain and costly than in the united states and is currently undergoing review and revision in many countries. further, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as united states laws. for example, certain countries do not grant patent claims that are directed to the treatment of humans. we may participate in opposition proceedings to determine the validity of our foreign patents or our competitors' foreign patents, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts. for example, there is a patent opposition proceeding against our european patent that covers the composition of matter and use of certain janus kinase inhibitors, including ruxolitinib phosphate, for the treatment of myeloid proliferative disorders, cancer, immune-related diseases, skin disorders, and other diseases. successful challenges to our patent or other intellectual property rights through these proceedings could result in a loss of rights in the relevant jurisdiction and allow third parties to use our proprietary technologies without a license from us or our collaborators, which may also result in loss of future royalty payments. in addition, successful challenges may jeopardize or delay our ability to enter into new collaborations or commercialize potential products, which could harm our business and results of operations. 43 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 63 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our investments in marketable securities, which are composed primarily of u.s. government agency and non-agency mortgage-backed securities and money market funds, are subject to default, changes in credit rating and changes in market value. these investments are also subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market rate interest rates increase. as of december 31, 2012, cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $228.4 million. due to the nature of these investments, if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as of december 31, 2012, the decline in fair value would not be material. 63risk factors 27 risk factors risks relating to our lead product jakafi we depend heavily on our lead product, jakafi (ruxolitinib), which is marketed as jakavi outside the united states. if we are unable to successfully commercialize jakafi in its approved indication or to successfully obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize ruxolitinib for the treatment of additional indications, or if we are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, our business may be materially harmed. in november 2011, we received approval from the u.s. food and drug administration, or fda, to market jakafi in the united states for the treatment of intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis. jakafi is our first product to be approved for sale in the united states. although we have received this regulatory approval, such approval does not guarantee future revenues. the commercial success of jakafi and our ability to generate and maintain revenues from the sale of jakafi will depend on a number of factors, including: the number of patients with intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis who are diagnosed with the disease and the number of such patients that may be treated with jakafi; the acceptance of jakafi by patients and the healthcare community; whether physicians, patients and healthcare payors view jakafi as therapeutically effective and safe relative to cost and any alternative therapies; the ability to obtain and maintain sufficient coverage or reimbursement by third-party payors; the ability of our third-party manufacturers to manufacture jakafi in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality; the ability of our company and our third-party providers to provide marketing and distribution support for jakafi; the label and promotional claims allowed by the fda; the maintenance of regulatory approval for the treatment of intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis in the united states; and our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize ruxolitinib in the united states for additional indications. if we are not successful in commercializing jakafi in the united states, or are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, our business may be materially harmed and we may need to delay other drug discovery and development initiatives or even significantly curtail operations. in addition, our receipt of royalties under our collaboration agreement with novartis for sales of jakavi outside the united states will depend on factors similar to those listed above for jurisdictions outside the united states. if we are unable to obtain, or maintain at anticipated levels, reimbursement for jakafi from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, our pricing may be affected or our product sales, results of operations or financial condition could be harmed. we may not be able to sell jakafi on a profitable basis or our profitability may be reduced if we are required to sell jakafi at lower than anticipated prices or reimbursement is unavailable or limited in scope or amount. jakafi is expensive and almost all patients will require some form of third party coverage to afford its cost. our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected if we cannot depend on government and other third-party payors to defray the cost of jakafi to the patient. in the united states, there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, efforts to control and reduce 27 table of contents healthcare costs. government and other third-party payors are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting and attempting to limit both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs. if these entities refuse to provide coverage and reimbursement with respect to jakafi, determine to provide a lower level of coverage and reimbursement than anticipated, or reduce previously approved levels of coverage and reimbursement, then our pricing or reimbursement for jakafi may be affected and our product sales, results of operations or financial condition could be harmed. we depend upon a limited number of specialty pharmacies and group purchasing organizations for a significant portion of any revenues from jakafi, and the loss of, or significant reduction in sales to, any one of these specialty pharmacies or group purchasing organizations could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. we sell jakafi primarily to specialty pharmacies and group purchasing organizations, which in turn dispense jakafi to patients in fulfillment of prescriptions. we do not promote jakafi to specialty pharmacies and group purchasing organizations, and specialty pharmacies and group purchasing organizations will not set or determine demand for jakafi. our ability to successfully commercialize jakafi will depend, in part, on the extent to which we are able to provide adequate distribution of jakafi to patients. although we have contracted with a number of specialty pharmacies and group purchasing organizations, these specialty pharmacies and group purchasing organizations are expected generally to carry a very limited inventory and may be reluctant to be part of our distribution network in the future if demand for the product does not increase. further, it is possible that these specialty pharmacies and group purchasing organizations could decide to change their policies or fees, or both, at some time in the future. this could result in their refusal to carry smaller volume products such as jakafi, or cause higher product costs, lower margins or the need to find alternative methods of distributing our product. although we believe we can find alternative channels to distribute jakafi on relatively short notice, our revenue during that period of time may suffer and we may incur additional costs to replace any such specialty pharmacy or group purchasing organization. the loss of any large specialty pharmacy or group purchasing organization as part of our distribution network, a significant reduction in sales we make to specialty pharmacies or group purchasing organizations, or any failure to pay for the products we have shipped to them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. if we are unable to establish and maintain effective sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or to enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will not be able to successfully commercialize jakafi. prior to our commercialization of jakafi, we had no experience selling and marketing drug products and with pricing and obtaining adequate third-party reimbursement for drug products. under our collaboration and license agreement with novartis, we have retained commercialization rights to jakafi in the united states. we have established commercial capabilities in the united states, but cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain our own capabilities or enter into and maintain any marketing, distribution or third-party logistics agreements with third-party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. we may not be able to correctly judge the size and experience of the sales and marketing force and the scale of distribution capabilities necessary to successfully market and sell jakafi. establishing and maintaining sales, marketing and distribution capabilities are expensive and time-consuming. competition for personnel with experience in sales and marketing can be high. our expenses associated with building and maintaining the sales force and distribution capabilities may be disproportional compared to the revenues we may be able to generate on sales of jakafi. 28 table of contents our reliance on other parties to manufacture jakafi could result in a short supply of jakafi, increased costs, and withdrawal of regulatory approval. we do not currently operate manufacturing facilities for commercial production of jakafi. accordingly, we will be subject to the risks described below under " other risks relating to our business our reliance on other parties to manufacture our drug products and drug candidates could result in a short supply of the drugs, delays in clinical trials or drug development, increased costs, and withdrawal or denial of a regulatory authority's approval." if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could lose our approval to market jakafi or be subject to other governmental enforcement activity. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain regulatory approval to market jakafi in the united states. if we do not maintain our regulatory approval to market jakafi, our results of operations will be materially harmed. we and our current collaborators, third-party manufacturers and suppliers are subject to rigorous and extensive regulation by the fda and other federal and state agencies. these regulations continue to apply after product marketing approval, and cover, among other things, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, advertising, promotion, risk mitigation, and adverse event reporting requirements. our commercialization of jakafi is subject to post-regulatory approval product surveillance, and jakafi may have to be withdrawn from the market or subject to restrictions if previously unknown problems occur. regulatory agencies may also require additional clinical trials or testing for jakafi, and jakafi may be recalled or may be subject to reformulation, additional studies, changes in labeling, warnings to the public and negative publicity. failure to comply with the laws and requirements, including statutes and regulations, administered by the fda or other agencies could result in: administrative and judicial sanctions, including warning letters; fines and other civil penalties; withdrawal of regulatory approval to market jakafi; interruption of production; operating restrictions; product recall or seizure; injunctions; and criminal prosecution. the occurrence of any such event may have a material adverse effect on our business. if the use of jakafi harms patients, or is perceived to harm patients even when such harm is unrelated to jakafi, our regulatory approval could be revoked or otherwise negatively impacted or we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. the testing of jakafi and the manufacturing, marketing and sale of jakafi expose us to product liability and other risks. side effects and other problems experienced by patients from the use of jakafi could: lessen the frequency with which physicians decide to prescribe jakafi; encourage physicians to stop prescribing jakafi to their patients who previously had been prescribed jakafi; 29 table of contents cause serious harm to patients that may give rise to product liability claims against us; and result in our need to withdraw or recall jakafi from the marketplace. if jakafi is used by a wide patient population, new risks and side effects may be discovered, the rate of known risks or side effects may increase, and risks previously viewed as less significant could be determined to be significant. previously unknown risks and adverse effects of jakafi may also be discovered in connection with unapproved, or off-label, uses of jakafi. we are prohibited by law from promoting or in any way supporting or encouraging the promotion of jakafi for off-label uses, but physicians are permitted to use products for off-label purposes. in addition, we are studying and expect to continue to study jakafi in diseases other than intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis in controlled clinical settings, and independent investigators are doing so as well. in the event of any new risks or adverse effects discovered as new patients are treated for intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis and as jakafi is studied in or used by patients for off-label indications, regulatory authorities may delay or revoke their approvals, we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials, make changes in labeling of jakafi, reformulate jakafi or make changes and obtain new approvals. we may also experience a significant drop in the sales of jakafi, experience harm to our reputation and the reputation of jakafi in the marketplace or become subject to lawsuits, including class actions. any of these results could decrease or prevent sales of jakafi or substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing jakafi. patients who have been enrolled in our clinical trials or who may use jakafi in the future often have severe and advanced stages of disease and known as well as unknown significant pre-existing and potentially life-threatening health risks. during the course of treatment, patients may suffer adverse events, including death, for reasons that may or may not be related to jakafi. such events could subject us to costly litigation, require us to pay substantial amounts of money to injured patients, delay, negatively impact or end our opportunity to receive or maintain regulatory approval to market jakafi, or require us to suspend or abandon our commercialization efforts. even in a circumstance in which we do not believe that an adverse event is related to jakafi, the investigation into the circumstance may be time consuming or inconclusive. these investigations may interrupt our sales efforts, impact and limit the type of regulatory approvals jakafi receives or maintains, or delay the regulatory approval process for our collaborator novartis in other countries. factors similar to those listed above also apply to our collaboration partner novartis for jurisdictions outside the united states. if we market jakafi in a manner that violates various federal and state health care related laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. in addition to fda and related regulatory requirements, we are subject to health care "fraud and abuse" laws, such as the federal false claims act, the anti-kickback provisions of the federal social security act, and other state and federal laws and regulations. federal and state anti-kickback laws prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce, or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any health care item or service reimbursable under medicare, medicaid, or other federally- or state-financed health care programs. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities. although physicians are permitted, based on their medical judgment, to prescribe products for indications other than those approved by the fda, manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products for such off-label uses. we market jakafi for intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis and 30 table of contents provide promotional materials to physicians regarding the use of jakafi for this indication. although we believe that our promotional materials for physicians do not constitute off-label promotion of jakafi, the fda or other agencies may disagree. if the fda or another agency determines that our promotional materials or other activities constitute off-label promotion of jakafi, it could request that we modify our promotional materials or other activities or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. it is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they believe that the alleged improper promotion led to the submission and payment of claims for an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. even if it is later determined we are not in violation of these laws, we may be faced with negative publicity, incur significant expenses defending our position and have to divert significant management resources from other matters. the majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. in recent years, several states and localities, including california, connecticut, the district of columbia, massachusetts, minnesota, nevada, new mexico, texas, vermont, and west virginia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. similar legislation is being considered in other states. additionally, as part of the patient protection and affordable care act, the federal government has enacted the physician payment sunshine provisions. the sunshine provisions require manufacturers to begin collecting data in 2013 and to publicly report starting in 2014 certain payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals. many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements are unclear. nonetheless, if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement action and fines and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity. see also " other risks relating to our business if we fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory requirements affecting the health care industry, we could face increased costs, penalties and a loss of business" below. other risks relating to our business we may be unsuccessful in our efforts to discover and develop drug candidates and commercialize drug products. none of our drug candidates, other than jakafi/jakavi, has received regulatory approval. our ability to discover and develop drug candidates and to commercialize additional drug products will depend on our ability to: hire and retain key employees; identify high quality therapeutic targets; identify potential drug candidates; develop products internally or license drug candidates from others; identify and enroll suitable human subjects, either in the united states or abroad, for our clinical trials; complete laboratory testing and clinical trials on humans; obtain and maintain necessary intellectual property rights to our products; obtain and maintain necessary regulatory approvals for our products, both in the united states and abroad; 31 table of contents enter into arrangements with third parties to provide services or to manufacture our products on our behalf; deploy sales and marketing resources effectively or enter into arrangements with third parties to provide these functions in compliance with all applicable laws; obtain appropriate coverage and reimbursement levels for the cost of our products from governmental authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors; lease facilities at reasonable rates to support our growth; and enter into arrangements with third parties to license and commercialize our products. we have limited experience with the activities listed above and may not be successful in discovering, developing, or commercializing drug products. discovery and development of drug candidates are expensive and time-consuming, and we do not know if our efforts will lead to discovery of any drug candidates that can be successfully developed and marketed. of the compounds that we identify as potential drug products or that we may in-license from other companies, only a few, if any, are likely to lead to successful drug development programs and commercialized drug products. we depend heavily on the success of our most advanced drug candidates. we might not be able to commercialize any of our drug candidates successfully, and we may spend significant time and money attempting to do so. we have invested significant resources in the development of our most advanced drug candidates. in addition to the commercial launch of jakafi for the treatment of intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis, ruxolitinib is also in a phase iii clinical trial for the treatment of polycythemia vera as well as in other clinical trials. further, we have a number of drug candidates in phase i and phase ii clinical trials. our ability to generate product revenues will depend on the successful development and eventual commercialization of our most advanced drug candidates. we, or our collaborators or licensees, may decide to discontinue development of any or all of our drug candidates at any time for commercial, scientific or other reasons. for example, in march 2008, we announced that we would not advance our lead ccr5 antagonist into phase iib trials and, in september 2011, we announced that we had discontinued development of our lead sheddase inhibitor, incb7839, for the treatment of breast cancer. if a product is developed, but is not marketed, we may have spent significant amounts of time and money on it, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. the success of our drug discovery and development efforts may depend on our ability to find suitable collaborators to fully exploit our capabilities. if we are unable to establish collaborations or if these future collaborations are unsuccessful in the development and commercialization of our drug candidates, our research, development and commercialization efforts may be unsuccessful, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. an important element of our business strategy is to enter into collaborative or license arrangements with other parties, such as our collaborations with novartis and lilly for our jak inhibitors, under which we license our drug candidates to those parties for development and commercialization or we study our drug candidates in combination with such parties' compounds. we are evaluating strategic relationships with respect to several of our other programs and may enter into an agreement with respect to one or more of these programs in the future. however, because collaboration and license arrangements are complex to negotiate, we may not be successful in our attempts to establish these arrangements. also, we may not have drug candidates that are desirable to other parties, or we may be unwilling to license a drug candidate to a particular party because such party interested in it is a competitor or for other reasons. the terms of any such arrangements that we establish may not be favorable to us. alternatively, potential collaborators may decide against entering into an agreement with us because of our financial, regulatory or intellectual 32 table of contents property position or for scientific, commercial or other reasons. if we are not able to establish collaboration or license arrangements, we may not be able to develop and commercialize a drug product, which could adversely affect our business and our revenues. in order for any of these collaboration or license arrangements to be successful, we must first identify potential collaborators or licensees whose capabilities complement and integrate well with ours. we may rely on these arrangements for not only financial resources, but also for expertise or economies of scale that we expect to need in the future relating to clinical trials, manufacturing, sales and marketing, and for licenses to technology rights. however, it is likely that we will not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators or licensees devote to our programs or drug candidates. if our collaborators or licensees prove difficult to work with, are less skilled than we originally expected, do not devote adequate resources to the program, or do not agree with our approach to development or manufacturing of the drug candidate, the relationship could be unsuccessful. if a business combination involving a collaborator or licensee and a third party were to occur, the effect could be to terminate or cause delays in development of a drug candidate. we depend on our collaborators and licensees for the future development and commercialization of some of our drug candidates. conflicts may arise between our collaborators and licensees and us, or our collaborators and licensees may choose to terminate their agreements with us, which may adversely affect our business. we have licensed to novartis rights to ruxolitinib outside of the united states and worldwide rights to our c-met inhibitor compounds and licensed to lilly worldwide rights to baricitinib. we have also licensed to pfizer our portfolio of ccr2 antagonist compounds. under the terms of our agreements with these collaborators, we have no or limited control over the further clinical development of these drug candidates and any revenues we may receive if these drug candidates receive regulatory approval and are commercialized will depend primarily on the development and commercialization efforts of others. we intend to seek other collaborative or licensing arrangements with respect to other of our drug candidates, but do not know whether we will be able to enter into any such arrangement on acceptable terms, if at all. conflicts may arise with our current or future collaborators and licensees if they pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products either on their own or in collaboration with others as a means for developing treatments for the diseases that we have targeted. competing products and product opportunities may lead our collaborators and licensees to withdraw their support for our drug candidates. any failure of our collaborators and licensees to perform their obligations under our agreements with them or otherwise to support our drug candidates could negatively impact the development of our compounds and drug candidates, lead to our loss of potential revenues from product sales and milestones and delay our achievement, if any, of profitability. additionally, conflicts may arise if, among other things, there is a dispute about the achievement and payment of a milestone amount or the ownership of intellectual property that is developed during the course of a collaborative relationship. our existing collaborative and license agreements can be terminated by our collaborators and licensees for convenience, among other circumstances. if any of our collaborators or licensees terminates its agreement with us, or terminates its rights with respect to certain indications or compounds, we may not be able to find a new collaborator for them, and our business could be adversely affected. should an agreement be terminated before we have realized the benefits of the collaboration or license, our reputation could be harmed, we may not obtain revenues that we anticipated receiving, and our business could be adversely affected. 33 table of contents although we obtained special protocol assessment agreements for ruxolitinib for each of advanced polycythemia vera and advanced or metastatic pancreatic cancer, a special protocol assessment agreement does not guarantee any particular outcome from regulatory review, including any regulatory approval. we have obtained a special protocol assessment, or spa, agreement for the registration trial for ruxolitinib for the treatment of advanced polycythemia vera in the united states. we have also obtained an spa agreement with the fda for a registration trial, which is one of two phase iii trials in the development plan, for ruxolitinib for the treatment of advanced or metastatic pancreatic cancer in a subgroup of patients with certain prognostic characteristics. the spa process allows for fda evaluation of a clinical trial protocol intended to form the primary basis of an efficacy claim in support of a new drug application, or nda, and provides a product sponsor with an agreement confirming that the design and size of a trial will be appropriate to form the primary basis of an efficacy claim for an nda if the trial is performed according to the spa. even if we believe that the data from a clinical trial are supportive, an spa is not a guarantee of approval, and we cannot be certain that the design of, or data collected from, a trial will be adequate to demonstrate safety and efficacy, or otherwise be sufficient to support regulatory approval. there can be no assurance that the terms of an spa will ultimately be binding on the fda, and the fda is not obligated to approve an nda, if any, even if the clinical outcome is positive. the fda retains significant latitude and discretion in interpreting the terms of an spa and the data and results from a clinical trial, and can require trial design changes or additional studies if issues arise essential to determining safety or efficacy. data may subsequently become available that causes the fda to reconsider the previously agreed upon scope of review and the fda may have subsequent safety or efficacy concerns that override an spa, and we can give no assurance that as clinical trials proceed or as part of an nda review process, if any, the fda will determine that a previously approved spa is still valid. additionally, an spa may be changed only with the written agreement of the fda, and any further changes we may propose to the protocol will remain subject to the fda's approval. the fda may not agree to any such amendment and, even if they agree, they may request other amendments to the trial design that could require additional cost and time, as well as increase the degree of difficulty in reaching clinical endpoints. as a result, even with an spa, we cannot be certain that the trial results will be found to be adequate to support an efficacy claim and product approval. even if a drug candidate that we develop receives regulatory approval, we may decide not to commercialize it if we determine that commercialization of that product would require more money and time than we are willing to invest. even if any of our drug candidates receives regulatory approval, it could be subject to post-regulatory surveillance, and may have to be withdrawn from the market or subject to restrictions if previously unknown problems occur. regulatory agencies may also require additional clinical trials or testing, and the drug product may be recalled or may be subject to reformulation, additional studies, changes in labeling, warnings to the public and negative publicity. as a result, we may not continue to commercialize a product even though it has obtained regulatory approval. further, we may decide not to continue to commercialize a product if the market does not accept the product because it is too expensive or because third parties such as insurance companies or medicare have not approved it for substantial reimbursement. in addition, we may decide not to continue to commercialize a product if competitors develop and commercialize similar or superior products or have proprietary rights that preclude us from ultimately marketing our products. if we fail to enter into additional licensing agreements or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our business and operations might be adversely affected. in addition to establishing collaborative or license arrangements under which other parties license our drug candidates for development and commercialization, we may explore opportunities to develop our clinical pipeline by in-licensing drug candidates that fit within our expertise and research and development 34 table of contents capabilities. we may be unable to enter into any additional in-licensing agreements because suitable drug candidates that are within our expertise may not be available to us on terms that are acceptable to us or because competitors with greater resources seek to in-license the same drug candidates. drug candidates that we would like to develop may not be available to us because they are controlled by competitors who are unwilling to license the rights to the drug candidate to us. in addition, we may enter into license agreements that are unsuccessful and our business and operations might be adversely affected by the termination of a drug candidate and termination and winding down of the related license agreement. we may also need to license drug delivery or other technology in order to continue to develop our drug candidate pipeline. if we are unable to enter into additional agreements to license drug candidates, drug delivery technology or other technology or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our research and development efforts could be adversely affected. any approved drug product that we bring to the market may not gain market acceptance by physicians, patients, healthcare payors and others in the medical community. even if we are successful in gaining regulatory approval of any of our drug candidates in addition to jakafi for the treatment of intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis in the united states, we may not generate significant product revenues and we may not become profitable if these drug products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance. physicians may not recommend our drug products until longer-term clinical data or other factors demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our drug products as compared to other alternative treatments. even if the clinical safety and efficacy of our drug products is established, physicians may elect not to prescribe these drug products for a variety of reasons, including the reimbursement policies of government and other third-party payors and the effectiveness of our competitors in marketing their products. market acceptance of our drug products, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including: the willingness and ability of patients and the healthcare community to use our products; the ability to manufacture our drug products in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality and to offer our drug products for sale at competitive prices; the perception of patients and the healthcare community, including third-party payors, regarding the safety, efficacy and benefits of our drug products compared to those of competing products or therapies; the label and promotional claims allowed by the fda; the pricing and reimbursement of our drug products relative to existing treatments; and marketing and distribution support for our drug products. we have limited capacity to conduct preclinical testing and clinical trials, and our resulting dependence on other parties could result in delays in and additional costs for our drug development efforts. we have limited internal resources and capacity to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials. as part of our development strategy, we often hire clinical research organizations, or cros, to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials for drug candidates. if the cros that we hire to perform our preclinical testing and clinical trials do not meet deadlines, do not follow proper procedures, or a conflict arises between us and our cros, our preclinical testing and clinical trials may take longer than expected, may cost more, may be delayed or may be terminated. if we were forced to find a replacement entity to perform any of our preclinical testing or clinical trials, we may not be able to find a suitable entity on favorable terms, or at all. even if we were able to find another company to perform a preclinical test or clinical trial, the delay in the test or trial may result in significant additional expenditures. events such as 35 table of contents these may result in delays in our obtaining regulatory approval for our drug candidates or our ability to commercialize our products and could result in increased expenditures that would adversely affect our operating results. if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates in the united states and foreign jurisdictions, we will not be permitted to commercialize products resulting from our research. in order to commercialize drug products in the united states, our drug candidates will have to obtain regulatory approval from the fda. satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years. to obtain regulatory approval, we must first show that our drug candidates are safe and effective for target indications through preclinical testing (animal testing) and clinical trials (human testing). preclinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes, and we do not know whether the fda will allow us to undertake clinical trials of any drug candidates in addition to our compounds currently in clinical trials. completion of clinical trials may take several years and failure may occur at any stage of testing. the length of time required varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the drug candidate. interim results of a preclinical test or clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results, and acceptable results in early clinical trials may not be repeated in later clinical trials. for example, a drug candidate that is successful at the preclinical level may cause harmful or dangerous side effects when tested at the clinical level. our rate of commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including: the high degree of risk associated with drug development; our inability to formulate or manufacture sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials; variability in the number and types of patients available for each study; difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, resulting in incomplete data; unforeseen safety issues or side effects; poor or unanticipated effectiveness of drug candidates during the clinical trials; or government or regulatory delays. data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretation, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. many companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving promising results in earlier clinical trials. in addition, regulatory authorities may refuse or delay approval as a result of other factors, such as changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development and regulatory agency review. for example, the fda has in the past required and could in the future require that we conduct additional trials of any of our drug candidates, which would result in delays. we have licensed to other companies certain rights to our jak1 and jak2 inhibitor compounds and c-met inhibitor compounds and our portfolio of ccr2 antagonist compounds. we have no or limited control over the further clinical development of any compounds we licensed to these collaborators. compounds developed by us or with or by our collaborators may not prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials and may not meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements needed to receive marketing approval. if regulatory approval of a product is granted, this approval will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which the product is demonstrated through clinical trials to be safe and effective. failure to obtain regulatory approval would delay or prevent us from commercializing products. 36 table of contents outside the united states, our ability to market a product is contingent upon receiving a marketing authorization from the appropriate regulatory authorities. this foreign regulatory approval process typically includes all of the risks associated with the fda approval process described above and may also include additional risks. the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country and may require us to perform additional testing and expend additional resources. approval by the fda does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or by the fda. we face significant competition for our drug discovery and development efforts, and if we do not compete effectively, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated. the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. our drug discovery and development efforts may target diseases and conditions that are already subject to existing therapies or that are being developed by our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, more experience in completing preclinical testing and clinical trials, and formulation, marketing and manufacturing capabilities. as a result of these resources, our competitors may develop drug products that render our products obsolete or noncompetitive by developing more effective drugs or by developing their products more efficiently. our ability to develop competitive products would be limited if our competitors succeeded in obtaining regulatory approvals for drug candidates more rapidly than we were able to or in obtaining patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limited our drug development efforts. any drug products resulting from our research and development efforts, or from our joint efforts with collaborators or licensees, might not be able to compete successfully with our competitors' existing and future products, or obtain regulatory approval in the united states or elsewhere. our reliance on other parties to manufacture our drug products and drug candidates could result in a short supply of the drugs, delays in clinical trials or drug development, increased costs, and withdrawal or denial of a regulatory authority's approval. we do not currently operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of jakafi and our other drug candidates. we currently hire third parties to manufacture the raw materials, active pharmaceutical ingredient, or api, and finished drug product of jakafi and our other drug candidates for clinical trials. in addition, we expect to continue to rely on third parties for the manufacture of commercial supplies of raw materials, api and finished drug product for any drugs that we successfully develop. for jakafi and most of our drug candidates, we hire third parties to manufacture the raw materials, another third party to manufacture the api and another to make the finished drug product and to package and label the finished product. the fda requires that the raw materials, api and finished product for jakafi and our other drug candidates be manufactured according to its current good manufacturing practices regulations and regulatory authorities in other countries have similar requirements. there are only a limited number of manufacturers that comply with these requirements. failure to comply with current good manufacturing practices and the applicable regulatory requirements of other countries in the manufacture of our drug candidates and products could result in the fda or foreign regulatory authority halting our clinical trials, withdrawing or denying regulatory approval of our drug product, enforcing product recalls or other enforcement actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of our drug candidates or any drug products we may develop if our designated manufacturers do not have the capacity or capability to manufacture them according to our schedule and specifications. in addition, we may not be able to arrange for our drug candidates or any drug products that we may develop to be manufactured by one of these parties on reasonable terms, if at all. also, required raw materials may only be available from a limited number of 37 table of contents suppliers and, in the case of jakafi, are currently supplied by a single source. as noted above, generally, we have only single sources that are qualified to supply each of the api and finished product of jakafi and our other drug candidates. if any of these single source suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to supply us with raw materials, api or finished product that complies with applicable regulatory requirements, we could incur significant delays in our clinical trials or interruption of commercial supply that could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are currently in the process of qualifying a second manufacturer for the api for jakafi and jakafi tablets, however, there is no assurance that we will be able to identify and qualify a second source of supply for jakafi. if we have promised delivery of a drug candidate or drug product and are unable to meet the delivery requirement due to manufacturing difficulties, our development programs could be delayed, we may have to expend additional sums in order to ensure that manufacturing capacity is available when we need it even if we do not use all of the manufacturing capacity, and our business and operating results could be harmed. manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, especially in scaling up initial production. these problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control and assurance and shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. in order to obtain approval of our products by the fda and foreign regulatory agencies, we need to complete testing on both the api and on the finished product in the packaging we propose for commercial sales. this includes testing of stability, identification of impurities and testing of other product specifications by validated test methods. in addition, we will be required to consistently produce the api in commercial quantities and of specified quality on a repeated basis and document our ability to do so. this requirement is referred to as process validation. we may not be able to adequately manage and oversee the manufacturers we choose, they may not perform as agreed or they may terminate their agreements with us. foreign manufacturing approval processes typically include all of the risks associated with the fda approval process for manufacturing and may also include additional risks. if we fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory requirements affecting the health care industry, we could face increased costs, penalties and a loss of business. our activities, and the activities of our collaborators, partners and third-party providers, are subject to extensive government regulation and oversight both in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions. the fda and comparable agencies in other jurisdictions directly regulate many of our most critical business activities, including the conduct of preclinical and clinical studies, product manufacturing, advertising and promotion, product distribution, adverse event reporting and product risk management. states increasingly have been placing greater restrictions on the marketing practices of healthcare companies. in addition, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been the target of lawsuits and investigations alleging violations of government regulations, including claims asserting submission of incorrect pricing information, impermissible off-label promotion of pharmaceutical products, payments intended to influence the referral of federal or state healthcare business, submission of false claims for government reimbursement, antitrust violations, violations of the foreign corrupt practices act, or violations related to environmental matters. violations of governmental regulation may be punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in government programs, including medicare and medicaid. in addition to penalties for violation of laws and regulations, we could be required to repay amounts we received from government payors, or pay additional rebates and interest if we are found to have miscalculated the pricing information we have submitted to the government. whether or not we have complied with the law, an investigation into alleged unlawful conduct could increase our expenses, damage our reputation, divert management time and attention and adversely affect our business. 38 table of contents health care reform measures could impact the pricing and profitability of pharmaceuticals, and adversely affect the commercial viability of our drug candidates. our ability to generate revenues will be diminished if we are unable to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement from private insurers, government insurance programs or other third-party payors of health care costs, which could be affected by recent healthcare reform legislation. our ability to commercialize our drug candidates successfully will depend in part on the extent to which adequate reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatment are obtained from third-party payors, such as private insurers, government insurance programs, including medicare and medicaid, health maintenance organizations (hmos) and other health care related organizations. in recent years, through legislative and regulatory actions, the federal government has made substantial changes to various payment systems under the medicare and other federal health care programs. comprehensive reforms to the u.s. healthcare system were recently enacted, including changes to the methods for, and amounts of, medicare reimbursement. these reforms could significantly reduce payments from medicare and medicaid. reforms or other changes to these payment systems, may change the availability, methods and rates of reimbursements from medicare, private insurers and other third-party payors for our drug candidates. some of these changes and proposed changes could result in reduced reimbursement rates, which could reduce the price that we or any of our collaborators or licensees receive for any products, if commercialized, in the future, and which would adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. further federal and state proposals and health care reforms are possible, which could limit the prices that can be charged for any of our drug candidates and may further limit the commercial viability of our drug candidates. in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. if reimbursement for our products, if commercialized, is unavailable, limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our business could be materially harmed. there may be future changes that result in reductions in current coverage and reimbursement levels for our drug candidates, and we cannot predict the scope of any future changes or the impact that those changes would have on our operations. third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. also, the trend toward managed health care in the united states, the organizations for which could control or significantly influence the purchase of health care services and products, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may all result in lower prices for or rejection of our products. adoption of our drug candidates by the medical community may be limited without adequate reimbursement for our products. cost control initiatives may decrease coverage and payment levels for our drug candidates and, in turn, the price that we will be able to charge for any product, if commercialized. our drug candidates may not be considered cost-effective, and coverage and reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis. we are unable to predict all changes to the coverage or reimbursement methodologies that will be applied by private or government payors to our drug candidates. the continuing efforts of third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care, any denial of private or government payor coverage or inadequate reimbursement for our drug candidates could materially and adversely affect our business strategy, operations, future revenues and profitability, and the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers, collaborators and licensees and the availability of capital. as our drug discovery and development operations are conducted at our headquarters in wilmington, delaware, the loss of access to this facility would negatively impact our business. our facility in wilmington, delaware is our headquarters and is also where we conduct all of our drug discovery, research, development and marketing activities. our lease contains provisions that provide for its early termination upon the occurrence of certain events of default or upon a change of control. further, 39 table of contents our headquarters facility is located in a large research and development complex that may be temporarily or permanently shut down if certain environmental or other hazardous conditions were to occur within the complex. in addition, natural disasters or actions of activists opposed to aspects of pharmaceutical research may disrupt our experiments or our ability to access or use our facilities. the loss of access to or use of our wilmington, delaware, facility, either on a temporary or permanent basis, or early termination of our lease would result in an interruption of our business and, consequently, would adversely affect our overall business. we depend on key employees in a competitive market for skilled personnel, and the loss of the services of any of our key employees or our inability to attract and retain additional personnel would affect our ability to expand our drug discovery and development programs and achieve our objectives. we are highly dependent on the members of our executive management team and principal members of our commercial, development, medical, operations and scientific staff. we experience intense competition for qualified personnel. our future success also depends in part on the continued service of our executive management team and key personnel and our ability to recruit, train and retain essential personnel for our drug discovery and development programs, and for our medical affairs and commercialization activities. if we lose the services of any of these people or if we are unable to recruit sufficient qualified personnel, our research and product development goals, and our commercialization efforts could be delayed or curtailed. we do not maintain "key person" insurance on any of our employees. if we fail to manage our growth effectively, our ability to develop and commercialize products could suffer. we expect that if our drug discovery efforts continue to generate drug candidates, our clinical drug candidates continue to progress in development, and we continue to build our development, medical and commercial organizations, we will require significant additional investment in personnel, management and resources. our ability to achieve our research, development and commercialization objectives depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands and expand our internal organization, systems, controls and facilities to accommodate additional anticipated growth. if we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business could be harmed and our ability to execute our business strategy could suffer. if product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we could face substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products and our results of operations could be harmed. in addition to the risks described above under " risks relating to our lead product jakafi if the use of jakafi harms patients, or is perceived to harm patients even when such harm is unrelated to jakafi, our regulatory approval could be revoked or otherwise negatively impacted or we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims," the conduct of clinical trials of medical products that are intended for human use entails an inherent risk of product liability. if any product that we or any of our collaborators or licensees develops causes or is alleged to cause injury during clinical trials or commercialization, we may be held liable. if we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities, including substantial damages to be paid to the plaintiffs and legal costs, or we may be required to limit further development and commercialization of our products. additionally, any product liability lawsuit could cause injury to our reputation, participants and investigators to withdraw from clinical trials, and potential collaborators or licensees to seek other partners, any of which could impact our results of operations. our product liability insurance policy may not fully cover our potential liabilities. in addition, we may determine that we should increase our coverage, and this insurance may be prohibitively expensive to us or our collaborators or licensees and may not fully cover our potential liabilities. our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the development or commercialization of our drug candidates and products. 40 table of contents because our activities involve the use of hazardous materials, we may be subject to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials that could be time consuming and costly. we are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the use, handling, storage and disposal of regulated substances and the health and safety of our employees. our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous and radioactive materials and biological waste resulting in the production of hazardous waste products. we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. if any injury or contamination results from our use or the use by our collaborators or licensees of these materials, we may be sued and our liability may exceed our insurance coverage and our total assets. further, we may be required to indemnify our collaborators or licensees against all damages and other liabilities arising out of our development activities or products produced in connection with these collaborations or licenses. compliance with the applicable environmental and workplace laws and regulations is expensive. future changes to environmental, health, workplace and safety laws could cause us to incur additional expense or may restrict our operations or impair our research, development and production efforts. risks relating to our financial results we expect to incur losses in the future and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. we had net losses from inception in 1991 through 1996 and in 1999 through december 31, 2013. because of those losses, we had an accumulated deficit of $1.7 billion as of december 31, 2013. we intend to continue to spend significant amounts on our efforts to discover and develop drugs. as a result, we could continue to incur losses in 2014 and in future periods as well. we anticipate that our drug discovery and development efforts and related expenditures will increase as we focus on the studies, including preclinical tests and clinical trials prior to seeking regulatory approval, that are required before we can sell a drug product. the development of drug products will require us to spend significant funds on research, development, testing, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing and marketing. to date, we do not have any drug products that have generated significant revenues other than from sales of jakafi and we cannot assure you that we will generate significant revenues from the drug candidates that we license or develop, including jakafi, for several years, if ever. we cannot be certain whether or when we will achieve profitability because of the significant uncertainties relating to our ability to generate commercially successful drug products. even if we are successful in obtaining regulatory approvals for manufacturing and commercializing drug products in addition to jakafi, we expect that we will continue to incur losses if our drug products do not generate significant revenues. if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability. we will need additional capital in the future. if we are unable to generate sufficient funds from operations, the capital markets may not permit us to raise additional capital at the time that we require it, which could result in limitations on our research and development or commercialization efforts or the loss of certain of our rights in our technologies or drug candidates. our future funding requirements will depend on many factors and we anticipate that we may need to raise additional capital to fund our business plan and research and development efforts going-forward and to repay our indebtedness. additional factors that may affect our future funding requirements include: the amount of revenues generated from our business activities; any changes in the breadth of our research and development programs; 41 table of contents the results of research and development, preclinical testing and clinical trials conducted by us or our current or future collaborators or licensees, if any; our exercise of any co-development options with collaborators that may require us to fund future development; the acquisition of technologies, if any; our ability to maintain and establish new corporate relationships and research collaborations; competing technological and market developments; the time and costs involved in filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent and intellectual property claims; the receipt of contingent licensing or milestone fees or royalties on product sales from our current or future collaborative and license arrangements, if established; and the timing of regulatory approvals, if any. if we require additional capital at a time when investment in companies such as ours, or in the marketplace generally, is limited due to the then prevailing market or other conditions, we may have to scale back our operations, eliminate one or more of our research or development programs, or attempt to obtain funds by entering into an agreement with a collaborator or licensee that would result in terms that are not favorable to us or relinquishing our rights in certain of our proprietary technologies or drug candidates. if we are unable to raise funds at the time that we desire or at any time thereafter on acceptable terms, we may not be able to continue to develop our drug candidates. the sale of equity or additional convertible debt securities in the future may be dilutive to our stockholders, and debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that could restrict our operations or our ability to incur further indebtedness. we have a large amount of debt and our debt service obligations may prevent us from taking actions that we would otherwise consider to be in our best interests. as of december 31, 2013, the aggregate principal amount of our total consolidated debt was $846.6 million and our stockholders' deficit was $193.1 million. our substantial leverage could have significant negative consequences for our future operations, including: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital and research and development expenditures, and general corporate purposes; requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our expected cash flow or our existing cash to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our cash available for other purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures and research and development expenditures; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; or placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. we may not generate sufficient cash flow from our operations in the future to enable us to meet our anticipated fixed charges, including our obligations with respect to our outstanding convertible senior notes. as of december 31, 2013, $96.6 million aggregate principal amount of our 4.75% convertible senior notes due 2015 was outstanding and due in october 2015. annual interest payments for our 4.75% convertible senior notes through 2015, assuming that none of these notes are converted, repurchased or 42 table of contents exchanged, are $4.6 million. as of december 31, 2013, $375.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 0.375% convertible senior notes due 2018 was outstanding and due in november 2018. annual interest payments for our 0.375% convertible senior notes through 2018, assuming that none of these notes are converted, repurchased or exchanged, are $1.4 million. as of december 31, 2013, $375.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 1.25% convertible senior notes due 2020 was outstanding and due in november 2020. annual interest payments for our 1.25% convertible senior notes through 2020, assuming that none of these notes are converted, repurchased or exchanged, are $4.7 million. if we are unable to generate cash from our operations or raise additional cash through financings sufficient to meet the remaining obligations under our convertible senior notes, we will need to use existing cash or liquidate marketable securities in order to fund these obligations, which may delay or curtail our research, development and commercialization programs. our marketable securities are subject to certain risks that could adversely affect our overall financial position. we invest our cash in accordance with an established internal policy and customarily in instruments, corporate bonds and money market funds which historically have been highly liquid and carried relatively low risk. recently similar types of investments and money market funds have experienced losses in value or liquidity issues which differ from their historical pattern. should a portion of our cash or marketable securities lose value or have their liquidity impaired, it could adversely affect our overall financial position by imperiling our ability to fund our operations and forcing us to seek additional financing sooner than we would otherwise. such financing, if available, may not be available on commercially attractive terms. our current revenues are derived from jakafi product sales, jakavi product royalties, collaborations and from licensing our intellectual property. if we are unable to achieve milestones, develop products or renew or enter into new collaborations, our revenues may decrease, and future milestone and royalty payments may not contribute significantly to revenues for several years, and may never result in revenues. we derived substantially all of our revenues for the year ended december 31, 2013 from jakafi product revenues, jakavi product royalties and our collaborations and licensing our intellectual property to others. future revenues from research and development collaborations depend upon continuation of the collaborations, the achievement of milestones and royalties we earn from any future products developed from our research. if we are unable to successfully achieve milestones or our collaborators fail to develop successful products, we will not earn the future revenues contemplated under our collaborative agreements. risks relating to intellectual property and legal matters if we are subject to arbitration, litigation and infringement claims, they could be costly and disrupt our drug discovery and development efforts. the technology that we use to make and develop our drug products, the technology that we incorporate in our products, and the products we are developing may be subject to claims that they infringe the patents or proprietary rights of others. the success of our drug discovery and development efforts will also depend on our ability to develop new compounds, drugs and technologies without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. we are aware of patents and patent applications filed in certain countries claiming intellectual property relating to some of our drug discovery targets and drug candidates. while the validity of issued patents, patentability of pending patent applications and applicability of any of them to our programs are uncertain, if any of these patents are asserted against us or if we choose to license any of these patents, our ability to commercialize our products could be harmed or the potential return to us from any product that may be successfully commercialized could be diminished. 43 table of contents from time to time we have received, and we may in the future receive, notices from third parties offering licenses to technology or alleging patent, trademark, or copyright infringement, claims regarding trade secrets or other contract claims. receipt of these notices could result in significant costs as a result of the diversion of the attention of management from our drug discovery and development efforts. parties sending these notices may have brought and in the future may bring litigation against us or seek arbitration relating to contract claims. we may be involved in future lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights or contract violations. in addition, litigation or other legal proceedings may be necessary to: assert claims of infringement; enforce our patents or trademarks; protect our trade secrets or know-how; or determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. we may be unsuccessful in defending or pursuing these lawsuits, claims or other legal proceedings. regardless of the outcome, litigation or other legal proceedings can be very costly and can divert management's efforts. an adverse determination may subject us to significant liabilities or require us or our collaborators or licensees to seek licenses to other parties' patents or proprietary rights. we or our collaborators or licensees may also be restricted or prevented from manufacturing or selling a drug or other product that we or they develop. further, we or our future collaborators or licensees may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. if we are unable to develop non-infringing technology or license technology on a timely basis or on reasonable terms, our business could be harmed. we may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our proprietary information, which may result in its unauthorized use, a loss of revenue under a collaboration agreement or loss of sales to generic versions of our products or otherwise reduce our ability to compete in developing and commercializing products. our business and competitive position depends in significant part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology, including any drug products that we create. despite our efforts to protect this information, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. for example, one of our collaborators may disclose proprietary information pertaining to our drug discovery efforts. in addition, while we have filed numerous patent applications with respect to ruxolitinib and our drug candidates in the united states and in foreign countries, our patent applications may fail to result in issued patents. in addition, because patent applications can take several years to issue as patents, there may be pending patent applications of others that may later issue as patents that cover some aspect of ruxolitinib and our drug candidates. our existing patents and any future patents we may obtain may not be broad enough to protect our products or all of the potential uses of our products, or otherwise prevent others from developing competing products or technologies. in addition, our patents may be challenged and invalidated or may fail to provide us with any competitive advantages if, for example, others were first to invent or first to file a patent application for the technologies and products covered by our patents. additionally, when we do not control the prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of certain important intellectual property, such as a drug compound in-licensed to us or subject to a collaboration with a third party, the protection of the intellectual property rights may not be in our hands. if we do not control the intellectual property rights in-licensed to us with respect to a compound and the entity that controls the intellectual property rights does not adequately protect those rights, our rights may be impaired, which may impact our ability to develop, market and commercialize the in-licensed compound. 44 table of contents our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate, and our competitors may: independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, products and techniques; otherwise gain access to our proprietary information; or design around patents issued to us or our other intellectual property. we pursue a policy of having our employees, consultants and advisors execute proprietary information and invention agreements when they begin working for us. however, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. if we fail to maintain trade secret and patent protection, our potential, future revenues may be decreased. if the effective term of our patents is decreased due to changes in the united states patent laws or if we need to refile some of our patent applications, the value of our patent portfolio and the revenues we derive from it may be decreased. the value of our patents depends in part on their duration. a shorter period of patent protection could lessen the value of our rights under any patents that we obtain and may decrease the revenues we derive from our patents. the united states patent laws were amended in 1995 to change the term of patent protection from 17 years from patent issuance to 20 years from the earliest effective filing date of the application. because the time from filing to issuance of biotechnology applications may be more than three years depending on the subject matter, a 20-year patent term from the filing date may result in substantially shorter patent protection. additionally, united states patent laws were amended in 2011 with the enactment of the america invents act and third parties are now able to challenge the validity of issued u.s. patents through various review proceedings; thus rendering the validity of u.s. patents more uncertain. we may be obligated to participate in review proceedings to determine the validity of our u.s. patents. we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these proceedings, the conduct of which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts and resources. if we are unsuccessful in these proceedings some or all of our claims in the patents may be narrowed or invalidated and the patent protection for our products and drug candidates in the united states could be substantially shortened. further, if all of the patents covering one of our products are invalidated, the fda could approve requests to manufacture a generic version of that product prior to the expiration date of those patents. other changes in the united states patent laws or changes in the interpretation of patent laws could diminish the value of our patents or narrow the scope of our patent protection. for example, the supreme court of the united states recently ruled that isolated dna sequences cannot be patented. although we no longer receive significant revenues generated from our former information products business, the majority of our gene patent portfolio from that business consists of patents on isolated dna sequences, and this ruling limits our ability to derive additional revenues from our gene patent portfolio. additionally, the supreme court recently resolved a split among the circuit courts of appeals regarding antitrust challenges to settlements of patent infringement lawsuits under the hatch-waxman act between brand-name drug companies and generic drug companies. the court rejected the "scope of the patent" test and ruled that settlements involving "reverse payments" from brand-name drug companies to generic drug companies should be analyzed under the rule of reason. this ruling may create uncertainty and make it more difficult to settle patent litigation if a company seeking to manufacture a generic version of one of our products challenges the patents covering that product prior to the expiration date of those patents. 45 table of contents international patent protection is particularly uncertain and costly, and our involvement in opposition proceedings in foreign countries may result in the expenditure of substantial sums and management resources. biotechnology and pharmaceutical patent law outside the united states is even more uncertain and costly than in the united states and is currently undergoing review and revision in many countries. further, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as united states laws. for example, certain countries do not grant patent claims that are directed to the treatment of humans. we have participated, and may in the future participate, in opposition proceedings to determine the validity of our foreign patents or our competitors' foreign patents, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts. successful challenges to our patent or other intellectual property rights through these proceedings could result in a loss of rights in the relevant jurisdiction and allow third parties to use our proprietary technologies without a license from us or our collaborators, which may also result in loss of future royalty payments. in addition, successful challenges may jeopardize or delay our ability to enter into new collaborations or commercialize potential products, which could harm our business and results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 66 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our investments in marketable securities, which are composed primarily of u.s. government agency and non-agency mortgage-backed securities and corporate debt securities, are subject to default, changes in credit rating and changes in market value. these investments are also subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market rate interest rates increase. as of december 31, 2013, marketable securities were $37.6 million. due to the nature of these investments, if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as of december 31, 2013, the decline in fair value would not be material. 66 table of contentsrisk factors 28 risk factors risks relating to our lead product jakafi we depend heavily on our lead product, jakafi (ruxolitinib), which is marketed as jakavi outside the united states. if we are unable to successfully commercialize jakafi in its approved indications or to successfully obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize ruxolitinib for the treatment of additional indications, or if we are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, our business may be materially harmed. jakafi is our first product to be approved for sale in the united states. it was approved by the u.s. food and drug administration, or fda, in november 2011 for the treatment of patients with intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis and in december 2014 for the treatment of patients with polycythemia vera who have had an inadequate response to or are intolerant of hydroxyurea, which we refer to as uncontrolled polycythemia vera. although we have received regulatory approval for these indications, such approval does not guarantee future revenues. the commercial success of jakafi and our ability to generate and maintain revenues from the sale of jakafi will depend on a number of factors, including: the number of patients with intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis or uncontrolled polycythemia vera who are diagnosed with the disease and the number of such patients that may be treated with jakafi; the acceptance of jakafi by patients and the healthcare community; whether physicians, patients and healthcare payors view jakafi as therapeutically effective and safe relative to cost and any alternative therapies; the ability to obtain and maintain sufficient coverage or reimbursement by third-party payors; the ability of our third-party manufacturers to manufacture jakafi in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality; the ability of our company and our third-party providers to provide marketing and distribution support for jakafi; the label and promotional claims allowed by the fda; the maintenance of regulatory approval for the approved indications in the united states; and our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize ruxolitinib in the united states for additional indications. if we are not successful in commercializing jakafi in the united states, or are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, our business may be materially harmed and we may need to delay other drug discovery and development initiatives or even significantly curtail operations. in addition, our receipt of royalties under our collaboration agreement with novartis for sales of jakavi outside the united states will depend on factors similar to those listed above for jurisdictions outside the united states. if we are unable to obtain, or maintain at anticipated levels, reimbursement for jakafi from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, our pricing may be affected or our product sales, results of operations or financial condition could be harmed. we may not be able to sell jakafi on a profitable basis or our profitability may be reduced if we are required to sell jakafi at lower than anticipated prices or reimbursement is unavailable or limited in scope or amount. jakafi is expensive and almost all patients will require some form of third party coverage to afford its cost. our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected if we cannot depend on government and other third-party payors to defray the cost of jakafi to the patient. in the 28 table of contents united states, there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, efforts to control and reduce healthcare costs. government and other third-party payors are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting and attempting to limit both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs. if these entities refuse to provide coverage and reimbursement with respect to jakafi, determine to provide a lower level of coverage and reimbursement than anticipated, or reduce previously approved levels of coverage and reimbursement, then our pricing or reimbursement for jakafi may be affected and our product sales, results of operations or financial condition could be harmed. we depend upon a limited number of specialty pharmacies and group purchasing organizations for a significant portion of any revenues from jakafi, and the loss of, or significant reduction in sales to, any one of these specialty pharmacies or group purchasing organizations could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. we sell jakafi primarily to specialty pharmacies and group purchasing organizations, which in turn dispense jakafi to patients in fulfillment of prescriptions. we do not promote jakafi to specialty pharmacies and group purchasing organizations, and they do not set or determine demand for jakafi. our ability to successfully commercialize jakafi will depend, in part, on the extent to which we are able to provide adequate distribution of jakafi to patients. although we have contracted with a number of specialty pharmacies and group purchasing organizations, they are expected generally to carry a very limited inventory and may be reluctant to be part of our distribution network in the future if demand for the product does not increase. further, it is possible that these specialty pharmacies and group purchasing organizations could decide to change their policies or fees, or both, at some time in the future. this could result in their refusal to carry smaller volume products such as jakafi, or cause higher product costs, lower margins or the need to find alternative methods of distributing our product. although we believe we can find alternative channels to distribute jakafi on relatively short notice, our revenue during that period of time may suffer and we may incur additional costs to replace any such specialty pharmacy or group purchasing organization. the loss of any large specialty pharmacy or group purchasing organization as part of our distribution network, a significant reduction in sales we make to specialty pharmacies or group purchasing organizations, or any failure to pay for the products we have shipped to them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. if we are unable to establish and maintain effective sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or to enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will not be able to successfully commercialize jakafi. prior to our commercialization of jakafi, we had no experience selling and marketing drug products and with pricing and obtaining adequate third-party reimbursement for drug products. under our collaboration and license agreement with novartis, we have retained commercialization rights to jakafi in the united states. we have established commercial capabilities in the united states, but cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain our own capabilities or enter into and maintain any marketing, distribution or third-party logistics agreements with third-party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. we may not be able to correctly judge the size and experience of the sales and marketing force and the scale of distribution capabilities necessary to successfully market and sell jakafi. establishing and maintaining sales, marketing and distribution capabilities are expensive and time-consuming. competition for personnel with experience in sales and marketing can be high. our expenses associated with building and maintaining the sales force and distribution capabilities may be disproportional compared to the revenues we may be able to generate on sales of jakafi. 29 table of contents our reliance on other parties to manufacture jakafi could result in a short supply of jakafi, increased costs, and withdrawal of regulatory approval. we do not currently operate manufacturing facilities for commercial production of jakafi. accordingly, we will be subject to the risks described below under " other risks relating to our business our reliance on other parties to manufacture our drug products and drug candidates could result in a short supply of the drugs, delays in clinical trials or drug development, increased costs, and withdrawal or denial of a regulatory authority's approval." if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could lose our approval to market jakafi or be subject to other governmental enforcement activity. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain regulatory approval to market jakafi in the united states. if we do not maintain our regulatory approval to market jakafi, our results of operations will be materially harmed. we and our collaborators, third-party manufacturers and suppliers are subject to rigorous and extensive regulation by the fda and other federal and state agencies. these regulations continue to apply after product marketing approval, and cover, among other things, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, advertising, promotion, risk mitigation, and adverse event reporting requirements. our commercialization of jakafi is subject to post-regulatory approval product surveillance, and jakafi may have to be withdrawn from the market or subject to restrictions if previously unknown problems occur. regulatory agencies may also require additional clinical trials or testing for jakafi, and jakafi may be recalled or may be subject to reformulation, additional studies, changes in labeling, warnings to the public and negative publicity. failure to comply with the laws and regulations administered by the fda or other agencies could result in: administrative and judicial sanctions, including warning letters; fines and other civil penalties; withdrawal of regulatory approval to market jakafi; interruption of production; operating restrictions; product recall or seizure; injunctions; and criminal prosecution. the occurrence of any such event may have a material adverse effect on our business. if the use of jakafi harms patients, or is perceived to harm patients even when such harm is unrelated to jakafi, our regulatory approval could be revoked or otherwise negatively impacted or we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. the testing of jakafi and the manufacturing, marketing and sale of jakafi expose us to product liability and other risks. side effects and other problems experienced by patients from the use of jakafi could: lessen the frequency with which physicians decide to prescribe jakafi; encourage physicians to stop prescribing jakafi to their patients who previously had been prescribed jakafi; 30 table of contents cause serious harm to patients that may give rise to product liability claims against us; and result in our need to withdraw or recall jakafi from the marketplace. if jakafi is used by a wide patient population, new risks and side effects may be discovered, the rate of known risks or side effects may increase, and risks previously viewed as less significant could be determined to be significant. previously unknown risks and adverse effects of jakafi may also be discovered in connection with unapproved, or off-label, uses of jakafi. we are prohibited by law from promoting or in any way supporting or encouraging the promotion of jakafi for off-label uses, but physicians are permitted to use products for off-label purposes. in addition, we are studying and expect to continue to study jakafi in diseases for potential additional indications in controlled clinical settings, and independent investigators are doing so as well. in the event of any new risks or adverse effects discovered as new patients are treated for intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis or uncontrolled polycythemia vera and as jakafi is studied in or used by patients for off-label indications, regulatory authorities may delay or revoke their approvals, we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials, make changes in labeling of jakafi, reformulate jakafi or make changes and obtain new approvals. we may also experience a significant drop in the sales of jakafi, experience harm to our reputation and the reputation of jakafi in the marketplace or become subject to lawsuits, including class actions. any of these results could decrease or prevent sales of jakafi or substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing jakafi. patients who have been enrolled in our clinical trials or who may use jakafi in the future often have severe and advanced stages of disease and known as well as unknown significant pre-existing and potentially life-threatening health risks. during the course of treatment, patients may suffer adverse events, including death, for reasons that may or may not be related to jakafi. such events could subject us to costly litigation, require us to pay substantial amounts of money to injured patients, delay, negatively impact or end our opportunity to receive or maintain regulatory approval to market jakafi, or require us to suspend or abandon our commercialization efforts. even in a circumstance in which we do not believe that an adverse event is related to jakafi, the investigation into the circumstance may be time consuming or inconclusive. these investigations may interrupt our sales efforts, impact and limit the type of regulatory approvals jakafi receives or maintains, or delay the regulatory approval process for our collaborator novartis in other countries. factors similar to those listed above also apply to our collaboration partner novartis for jurisdictions outside the united states. if we market jakafi in a manner that violates various federal and state health care related laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. in addition to fda and related regulatory requirements, we are subject to health care "fraud and abuse" laws, such as the federal false claims act, the anti-kickback provisions of the federal social security act, and other state and federal laws and regulations. federal and state anti-kickback laws prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce, or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any health care item or service reimbursable under medicare, medicaid, or other federally- or state-financed health care programs. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities. although physicians are permitted, based on their medical judgment, to prescribe products for indications other than those approved by the fda, manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products for such off-label uses. we market jakafi for intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis and 31 table of contents uncontrolled polycythemia vera and provide promotional materials to physicians regarding the use of jakafi for these indications. although we believe that our promotional materials for physicians do not constitute off-label promotion of jakafi, the fda or other agencies may disagree. if the fda or another agency determines that our promotional materials or other activities constitute off-label promotion of jakafi, it could request that we modify our promotional materials or other activities or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. it is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they believe that the alleged improper promotion led to the submission and payment of claims for an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. even if it is later determined we are not in violation of these laws, we may be faced with negative publicity, incur significant expenses defending our position and have to divert significant management resources from other matters. the majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. in recent years, several states and localities, including california, connecticut, the district of columbia, massachusetts, minnesota, nevada, new mexico, texas, vermont, and west virginia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. similar legislation is being considered in other states. additionally, as part of the patient protection and affordable care act, the federal government has enacted the physician payment sunshine provisions. the sunshine provisions require manufacturers to publicly report certain payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals. many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements are unclear. nonetheless, if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement action and fines and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity. see also " other risks relating to our business if we fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory requirements affecting the health care industry, we could face increased costs, penalties and a loss of business" below. other risks relating to our business we may be unsuccessful in our efforts to discover and develop drug candidates and commercialize drug products. none of our drug candidates, other than jakafi/jakavi, has received regulatory approval. our ability to discover and develop drug candidates and to commercialize additional drug products will depend on our ability to: hire and retain key employees; identify high quality therapeutic targets; identify potential drug candidates; develop products internally or license drug candidates from others; identify and enroll suitable human subjects, either in the united states or abroad, for our clinical trials; complete laboratory testing and clinical trials on humans; obtain and maintain necessary intellectual property rights to our products; obtain and maintain necessary regulatory approvals for our products, both in the united states and abroad; 32 table of contents enter into arrangements with third parties to provide services or to manufacture our products on our behalf; deploy sales and marketing resources effectively or enter into arrangements with third parties to provide these functions in compliance with all applicable laws; obtain appropriate coverage and reimbursement levels for the cost of our products from governmental authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors; lease facilities at reasonable rates to support our growth; and enter into arrangements with third parties to license and commercialize our products. we have limited experience with the activities listed above and may not be successful in discovering, developing, or commercializing drug products. discovery and development of drug candidates are expensive and time-consuming, and we do not know if our efforts will lead to discovery of any drug candidates that can be successfully developed and marketed. of the compounds or biologics that we identify as potential drug products or that we may in-license from other companies, only a few, if any, are likely to lead to successful drug development programs and commercialized drug products. we depend heavily on the success of our most advanced drug candidates. we might not be able to commercialize any of our drug candidates successfully, and we may spend significant time and money attempting to do so. we have invested significant resources in the development of our most advanced drug candidates. ruxolitinib is in phase iii clinical trials for the treatment of advanced or metastatic pancreatic cancer, as well as in other clinical trials. further, we have a number of drug candidates in phase i and phase ii clinical trials. our ability to generate product revenues will depend on the successful development and eventual commercialization of our most advanced drug candidates. we, or our collaborators or licensees, may decide to discontinue development of any or all of our drug candidates at any time for commercial, scientific or other reasons. for example, in september 2011, we announced that we had discontinued development of our lead sheddase inhibitor, incb7839, for the treatment of breast cancer. if a product is developed, but is not marketed, we may have spent significant amounts of time and money on it, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. although we obtained a special protocol assessment agreement for ruxolitinib for advanced or metastatic pancreatic cancer, a special protocol assessment agreement does not guarantee any particular outcome from regulatory review, including any regulatory approval. we have obtained a special protocol assessment, or spa, agreement with the fda for a registration trial, which is one of two phase iii trials in the development plan, for ruxolitinib for the treatment of advanced or metastatic pancreatic cancer in a subgroup of patients with elevated crp. the spa process allows for fda evaluation of a clinical trial protocol intended to form the primary basis of an efficacy claim in support of a new drug application, or nda, and provides a product sponsor with an agreement confirming that the design and size of a trial will be appropriate to form the primary basis of an efficacy claim for an nda if the trial is performed according to the spa. even if we believe that the data from a clinical trial are supportive, an spa is not a guarantee of approval, and we cannot be certain that the design of, or data collected from, a trial will be adequate to demonstrate safety and efficacy, or otherwise be sufficient to support regulatory approval. there can be no assurance that the terms of an spa will ultimately be binding on the fda, and the fda is not obligated to approve an nda, if any, even if the clinical outcome is positive. the fda retains significant latitude and discretion in interpreting the terms of an spa and the data and results from a clinical trial, and can require trial design changes or additional studies if issues arise essential to determining safety or efficacy. data may subsequently become available that causes the fda to reconsider the previously agreed upon scope of review and the fda may have 33 table of contents subsequent safety or efficacy concerns that override an spa, and we can give no assurance that as clinical trials proceed or as part of an nda review process, if any, the fda will determine that a previously approved spa is still valid. additionally, an spa may be changed only with the written agreement of the fda, and any further changes we may propose to the protocol will remain subject to the fda's approval. the fda may not agree to any such amendment and, even if they agree, they may request other amendments to the trial design that could require additional cost and time, as well as increase the degree of difficulty in reaching clinical endpoints. as a result, even with an spa, we cannot be certain that the trial results will be found to be adequate to support an efficacy claim and product approval. we depend on our collaborators and licensees for the future development and commercialization of some of our drug candidates. conflicts may arise between our collaborators and licensees and us, or our collaborators and licensees may choose to terminate their agreements with us, which may adversely affect our business. we have licensed to novartis rights to ruxolitinib outside of the united states and worldwide rights to our c-met inhibitor compounds and licensed to lilly worldwide rights to baricitinib. we have also licensed to pfizer our portfolio of ccr2 antagonist compounds. under the terms of our agreements with these collaborators, we have no or limited control over the further clinical development of these drug candidates and any revenues we may receive if these drug candidates receive regulatory approval and are commercialized will depend primarily on the development and commercialization efforts of others. conflicts may arise with our collaborators and licensees if they pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products either on their own or in collaboration with others as a means for developing treatments for the diseases that we have targeted. competing products and product opportunities may lead our collaborators and licensees to withdraw their support for our drug candidates. any failure of our collaborators and licensees to perform their obligations under our agreements with them or otherwise to support our drug candidates could negatively impact the development of our drug candidates, lead to our loss of potential revenues from product sales and milestones and delay our achievement, if any, of profitability. additionally, conflicts may arise if, among other things, there is a dispute about the achievement and payment of a milestone amount or the ownership of intellectual property that is developed during the course of a collaborative relationship. our existing collaborative and license agreements can be terminated by our collaborators and licensees for convenience, among other circumstances. if any of our collaborators or licensees terminates its agreement with us, or terminates its rights with respect to certain indications or drug candidates, we may not be able to find a new collaborator for them, and our business could be adversely affected. should an agreement be terminated before we have realized the benefits of the collaboration or license, our reputation could be harmed, we may not obtain revenues that we anticipated receiving, and our business could be adversely affected. the success of our drug discovery and development efforts may depend on our ability to find suitable collaborators to fully exploit our capabilities. if we are unable to establish collaborations or if these future collaborations are unsuccessful in the development and commercialization of our drug candidates, our research, development and commercialization efforts may be unsuccessful, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. an important element of our business strategy is to enter into collaborative or license arrangements with other parties, under which we license our drug candidates to those parties for development and commercialization or under which we study our drug candidates in combination with such parties' compounds or biologics. we are evaluating strategic relationships with respect to several of our other programs and may enter into an agreement with respect to one or more of these programs in the future. 34 table of contents however, because collaboration and license arrangements are complex to negotiate, we may not be successful in our attempts to establish these arrangements. also, we may not have drug candidates that are desirable to other parties, or we may be unwilling to license a drug candidate to a particular party because such party interested in it is a competitor or for other reasons. the terms of any such arrangements that we establish may not be favorable to us. alternatively, potential collaborators may decide against entering into an agreement with us because of our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position or for scientific, commercial or other reasons. if we are not able to establish collaboration or license arrangements, we may not be able to develop and commercialize a drug product, which could adversely affect our business and our revenues. in order for any of these collaboration or license arrangements to be successful, we must first identify potential collaborators or licensees whose capabilities complement and integrate well with ours. we may rely on these arrangements for not only financial resources, but also for expertise or economies of scale that we expect to need in the future relating to clinical trials, manufacturing, sales and marketing, and for licenses to technology rights. however, it is likely that we will not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators or licensees devote to our programs or drug candidates. if our collaborators or licensees prove difficult to work with, are less skilled than we originally expected, do not devote adequate resources to the program, pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products, or do not agree with our approach to development or manufacturing of the drug candidate, the relationship could be unsuccessful. if a business combination involving a collaborator or licensee and a third party were to occur, the effect could be to terminate or cause delays in development of a drug candidate. if we fail to enter into additional licensing agreements or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our business and operations might be adversely affected. in addition to establishing collaborative or license arrangements under which other parties license our drug candidates for development and commercialization or under which we study our drug candidates in combination with such parties' compounds or biologics, we may explore opportunities to develop our clinical pipeline by in-licensing drug candidates that fit within our focus on oncology, such as our collaboration with agenus. we may be unable to enter into any additional in-licensing agreements because suitable drug candidates that are within our expertise may not be available to us on terms that are acceptable to us or because competitors with greater resources seek to in-license the same drug candidates. drug candidates that we would like to develop may not be available to us because they are controlled by competitors who are unwilling to license the rights to the drug candidate to us. in addition, we may enter into license agreements that are unsuccessful and our business and operations might be adversely affected by the termination of a drug candidate and termination and winding down of the related license agreement. we may also need to license drug delivery or other technology in order to continue to develop our drug candidates. if we are unable to enter into additional agreements to license drug candidates, drug delivery technology or other technology or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our research and development efforts could be adversely affected. even if a drug candidate that we develop receives regulatory approval, we may decide not to commercialize it if we determine that commercialization of that product would require more money and time than we are willing to invest. even if any of our drug candidates receives regulatory approval, it could be subject to post-regulatory surveillance, and may have to be withdrawn from the market or subject to restrictions if previously unknown problems occur. regulatory agencies may also require additional clinical trials or testing, and the drug product may be recalled or may be subject to reformulation, additional studies, changes in labeling, warnings to the public and negative publicity. as a result, we may not continue to commercialize a product even though it has obtained regulatory approval. further, we may decide not to continue to commercialize 35 table of contents a product if the market does not accept the product because it is too expensive or because third parties such as insurance companies or medicare have not approved it for substantial reimbursement. in addition, we may decide not to continue to commercialize a product if competitors develop and commercialize similar or superior products or have proprietary rights that preclude us from ultimately marketing our products. any approved drug product that we bring to the market may not gain market acceptance by physicians, patients, healthcare payors and others in the medical community. even if we are successful in gaining regulatory approval of any of our drug candidates in addition to jakafi, we may not generate significant product revenues and we may not become profitable if these drug products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance. physicians may not recommend our drug products until longer-term clinical data or other factors demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our drug products as compared to other alternative treatments. even if the clinical safety and efficacy of our drug products is established, physicians may elect not to prescribe these drug products for a variety of reasons, including the reimbursement policies of government and other third-party payors and the effectiveness of our competitors in marketing their products. market acceptance of our drug products, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including: the willingness and ability of patients and the healthcare community to use our drug products; the ability to manufacture our drug products in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality and to offer our drug products for sale at competitive prices; the perception of patients and the healthcare community, including third-party payors, regarding the safety, efficacy and benefits of our drug products compared to those of competing products or therapies; the label and promotional claims allowed by the fda; the pricing and reimbursement of our drug products relative to existing treatments; and marketing and distribution support for our drug products. we have limited capacity to conduct preclinical testing and clinical trials, and our resulting dependence on other parties could result in delays in and additional costs for our drug development efforts. we have limited internal resources and capacity to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials. as part of our development strategy, we often hire clinical research organizations, or cros, to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials for drug candidates. if the cros that we hire to perform our preclinical testing and clinical trials do not meet deadlines, do not follow proper procedures, or a conflict arises between us and our cros, our preclinical testing and clinical trials may take longer than expected, may cost more, may be delayed or may be terminated. if we were forced to find a replacement entity to perform any of our preclinical testing or clinical trials, we may not be able to find a suitable entity on favorable terms, or at all. even if we were able to find another company to perform a preclinical test or clinical trial, the delay in the test or trial may result in significant additional expenditures. events such as these may result in delays in our obtaining regulatory approval for our drug candidates or our ability to commercialize our products and could result in increased expenditures that would adversely affect our operating results. 36 table of contents if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates in the united states and foreign jurisdictions, we will not be permitted to commercialize products resulting from our research. in order to commercialize drug products in the united states, our drug candidates will have to obtain regulatory approval from the fda. satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years. to obtain regulatory approval, we must first show that our drug candidates are safe and effective for target indications through preclinical testing (animal testing) and clinical trials (human testing). preclinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes, and we do not know whether the fda will allow us to undertake clinical trials of any drug candidates in addition to our compounds currently in clinical trials. completion of clinical trials may take several years and failure may occur at any stage of testing. the length of time required varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the drug candidate. interim results of a preclinical test or clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results, and acceptable results in early clinical trials may not be repeated in later clinical trials. for example, a drug candidate that is successful at the preclinical level may cause harmful or dangerous side effects when tested at the clinical level. our rate of commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including: the high degree of risk associated with drug development; our inability to formulate or manufacture sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials; variability in the number and types of patients available for each study; difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, resulting in incomplete data; unforeseen safety issues or side effects; poor or unanticipated effectiveness of drug candidates during the clinical trials; or government or regulatory delays. data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretation, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. many companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving promising results in earlier clinical trials. in addition, regulatory authorities may refuse or delay approval as a result of other factors, such as changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development and regulatory agency review. for example, the fda has in the past required and could in the future require that we conduct additional trials of any of our drug candidates, which would result in delays. compounds or biologics developed by us or with or by our collaborators and licensees may not prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials and may not meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements needed to receive marketing approval. if regulatory approval of a product is granted, this approval will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which the product is demonstrated through clinical trials to be safe and effective. failure to obtain regulatory approval would delay or prevent us from commercializing products. outside the united states, our ability to market a product is contingent upon receiving a marketing authorization from the appropriate regulatory authorities. this foreign regulatory approval process typically includes all of the risks associated with the fda approval process described above and may also include additional risks. the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country and may require us to perform additional testing and expend additional resources. approval by the fda does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or by the fda. 37 table of contents we face significant competition for our drug discovery and development efforts, and if we do not compete effectively, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated. the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. our drug discovery and development efforts may target diseases and conditions that are already subject to existing therapies or that are being developed by our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, more experience in completing preclinical testing and clinical trials, and formulation, marketing and manufacturing capabilities. as a result of these resources, our competitors may develop drug products that render our products obsolete or noncompetitive by developing more effective drugs or by developing their products more efficiently. our ability to develop competitive products would be limited if our competitors succeeded in obtaining regulatory approvals for drug candidates more rapidly than we were able to or in obtaining patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limited our drug development efforts. any drug products resulting from our research and development efforts, or from our joint efforts with collaborators or licensees, might not be able to compete successfully with our competitors' existing and future products, or obtain regulatory approval in the united states or elsewhere. our reliance on other parties to manufacture our drug products and drug candidates could result in a short supply of the drugs, delays in clinical trials or drug development, increased costs, and withdrawal or denial of a regulatory authority's approval. we do not currently operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of jakafi and our other drug candidates. we currently hire third parties to manufacture the raw materials, active pharmaceutical ingredient, or api, and finished drug product of jakafi and our other drug candidates for clinical trials. in addition, we expect to continue to rely on third parties for the manufacture of commercial supplies of raw materials, api and finished drug product for any drugs that we successfully develop. for jakafi and most of our drug candidates, we hire third parties to manufacture the raw materials, another third party to manufacture the api and another to make the finished drug product and to package and label the finished product. the fda requires that the raw materials, api and finished product for jakafi and our other drug candidates be manufactured according to its current good manufacturing practices regulations and regulatory authorities in other countries have similar requirements. there are only a limited number of manufacturers that comply with these requirements. failure to comply with current good manufacturing practices and the applicable regulatory requirements of other countries in the manufacture of our drug candidates and products could result in the fda or foreign regulatory authority halting our clinical trials, withdrawing or denying regulatory approval of our drug product, enforcing product recalls or other enforcement actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of our drug candidates or any drug products we may develop if our designated manufacturers do not have the capacity or capability to manufacture them according to our schedule and specifications. in addition, we may not be able to arrange for our drug candidates or any drug products that we may develop to be manufactured by one of these parties on reasonable terms, if at all. also, required raw materials may only be available from a limited number of suppliers and, in the case of jakafi, are currently supplied by a single source. as noted above, generally, we have a single source or a limited number of suppliers that are qualified to supply each of the api and finished product of jakafi and our other drug candidates. if any of these suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to supply us with raw materials, api or finished product that complies with applicable regulatory requirements, we could incur significant delays in our clinical trials or interruption of commercial supply that could have a material adverse effect on our business. if we have promised delivery of a drug candidate or drug product and are unable to meet the delivery requirement due to manufacturing difficulties, our development programs could be delayed, we may have to expend additional sums in order to ensure that manufacturing capacity is available when we need it even if we do not use all of the manufacturing capacity, and our business and operating results could be harmed. 38 table of contents manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, especially in scaling up initial production. these problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control and assurance and shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. in order to obtain approval of our products by the fda and foreign regulatory agencies, we need to complete testing on both the api and on the finished product in the packaging we propose for commercial sales. this includes testing of stability, identification of impurities and testing of other product specifications by validated test methods. in addition, we will be required to consistently produce the api in commercial quantities and of specified quality on a repeated basis and document our ability to do so. this requirement is referred to as process validation. we may not be able to adequately manage and oversee the manufacturers we choose, they may not perform as agreed or they may terminate their agreements with us. foreign manufacturing approval processes typically include all of the risks associated with the fda approval process for manufacturing and may also include additional risks. under our collaboration with agenus, agenus has primary responsibility for manufacturing activities, including selecting and monitoring third-party manufacturers. manufacturing antibodies and products containing antibodies is a more complex process than manufacturing small molecule drugs and subject to additional risks. the process of manufacturing antibodies and products containing antibodies is highly susceptible to product loss due to contamination, equipment failure or improper installation or operation of equipment, vendor or operator error, inconsistency in yields, variability in product characteristics, and difficulties in scaling the production process. even minor deviations from normal manufacturing processes could result in reduced production yields, product defects and other supply disruptions. if microbial, viral or other contaminations are discovered in our product candidates or in the manufacturing facilities in which our product candidates are made, such manufacturing facilities may need to be closed for an extended period of time to investigate and remedy the contamination. if we fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory requirements affecting the health care industry, we could face increased costs, penalties and a loss of business. our activities, and the activities of our collaborators, partners and third-party providers, are subject to extensive government regulation and oversight both in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions. the fda and comparable agencies in other jurisdictions directly regulate many of our most critical business activities, including the conduct of preclinical and clinical studies, product manufacturing, advertising and promotion, product distribution, adverse event reporting and product risk management. states increasingly have been placing greater restrictions on the marketing practices of healthcare companies. in addition, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been the target of lawsuits and investigations alleging violations of government regulations, including claims asserting submission of incorrect pricing information, impermissible off-label promotion of pharmaceutical products, payments intended to influence the referral of federal or state healthcare business, submission of false claims for government reimbursement, antitrust violations, violations of the foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws, or violations related to environmental matters. violations of governmental regulation may be punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in government programs, including medicare and medicaid. in addition to penalties for violation of laws and regulations, we could be required to repay amounts we received from government payors, or pay additional rebates and interest if we are found to have miscalculated the pricing information we have submitted to the government. we cannot ensure that our compliance controls, policies, and procedures will in every instance protect us from acts committed by our employees, collaborators, partners or third-party providers that would violate the laws or regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate. whether or not we have complied with the law, an investigation into 39 table of contents alleged unlawful conduct could increase our expenses, damage our reputation, divert management time and attention and adversely affect our business. health care reform measures could impact the pricing and profitability of pharmaceuticals, and adversely affect the commercial viability of our drug candidates. our ability to generate revenues will be diminished if we are unable to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement from private insurers, government insurance programs or other third-party payors of health care costs, which could be affected by recent healthcare reform legislation. our ability to commercialize our drug candidates successfully will depend in part on the extent to which adequate reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatment are obtained from third-party payors, such as private insurers, government insurance programs, including medicare and medicaid, health maintenance organizations (hmos) and other health care related organizations. in recent years, through legislative and regulatory actions, the federal government has made substantial changes to various payment systems under the medicare and other federal health care programs. comprehensive reforms to the u.s. healthcare system were recently enacted, including changes to the methods for, and amounts of, medicare reimbursement. these reforms could significantly reduce payments from medicare and medicaid. reforms or other changes to these payment systems, may change the availability, methods and rates of reimbursements from medicare, private insurers and other third-party payors for our drug candidates. some of these changes and proposed changes could result in reduced reimbursement rates, which could reduce the price that we or any of our collaborators or licensees receive for any products, if commercialized, in the future, and which would adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. further federal and state proposals and health care reforms are possible, which could limit the prices that can be charged for any of our drug candidates and may further limit the commercial viability of our drug candidates. in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. if reimbursement for our products, if commercialized, is unavailable, limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our business could be materially harmed. there may be future changes that result in reductions in current coverage and reimbursement levels for our drug candidates, and we cannot predict the scope of any future changes or the impact that those changes would have on our operations. third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. also, the trend toward managed health care in the united states, the organizations for which could control or significantly influence the purchase of health care services and products, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may all result in lower prices for or rejection of our products. adoption of our drug candidates by the medical community may be limited without adequate reimbursement for our products. cost control initiatives may decrease coverage and payment levels for our drug candidates and, in turn, the price that we will be able to charge for any product, if commercialized. our drug candidates may not be considered cost-effective, and coverage and reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis. we are unable to predict all changes to the coverage or reimbursement methodologies that will be applied by private or government payors to our drug candidates. the continuing efforts of third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care, any denial of private or government payor coverage or inadequate reimbursement for our drug candidates could materially and adversely affect our business strategy, operations, future revenues and profitability, and the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers, collaborators and licensees and the availability of capital. 40 table of contents as our drug discovery and development operations are conducted at our headquarters in wilmington, delaware, the loss of access to this facility would negatively impact our business. our facility in wilmington, delaware is our headquarters and is also where we conduct all of our drug discovery, research, development and marketing activities. our lease contains provisions that provide for its early termination upon the occurrence of certain events of default. in addition, natural disasters or actions of activists opposed to aspects of pharmaceutical research may disrupt our experiments or our ability to access or use our facility. the loss of access to or use of our wilmington, delaware, facility, either on a temporary or permanent basis, or early termination of our lease would result in an interruption of our business and, consequently, would adversely affect our overall business. we depend on key employees in a competitive market for skilled personnel, and the loss of the services of any of our key employees or our inability to attract and retain additional personnel would affect our ability to expand our drug discovery and development programs and achieve our objectives. we are highly dependent on the members of our executive management team and principal members of our commercial, development, medical, operations and scientific staff. we experience intense competition for qualified personnel. our future success also depends in part on the continued service of our executive management team and key personnel and our ability to recruit, train and retain essential personnel for our drug discovery and development programs, and for our medical affairs and commercialization activities. if we lose the services of any of these people or if we are unable to recruit sufficient qualified personnel, our research and product development goals, and our commercialization efforts could be delayed or curtailed. we do not maintain "key person" insurance on any of our employees. if we fail to manage our growth effectively, our ability to develop and commercialize products could suffer. we expect that if our drug discovery efforts continue to generate drug candidates, our clinical drug candidates continue to progress in development, and we continue to build our development, medical and commercial organizations, we will require significant additional investment in personnel, management and resources. our ability to achieve our research, development and commercialization objectives depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands and expand our internal organization, systems, controls and facilities to accommodate additional anticipated growth. if we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business could be harmed and our ability to execute our business strategy could suffer. risks associated with expanding our operations to europe could adversely affect our business. we plan to expand our operations and conduct certain development activities in europe. we have limited experience with conducting activities outside of the united states. international operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous additional risks, including: multiple, conflicting and changing laws and regulations such as tax laws, privacy regulations, export and import restrictions, employment, immigration and labor laws, regulatory requirements, and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; risks associated with obtaining and maintaining, or the failure to obtain or maintain, regulatory approvals for the sale or use of our products in various countries; complexities associated with managing government payor systems, multiple payor-reimbursement regimes or patient self-pay systems; financial risks, such as longer payment cycles, difficulty enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable and exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; 41 table of contents general political and economic conditions in the countries in operate, including terrorism and political unrest, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; regulatory and compliance risks that relate to maintaining accurate information and control over activities that may fall within the purview of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, its books and records provisions or its anti-bribery provisions, or similar anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws and regulations; any of these risks, if encountered, could significantly increase our costs of operating internationally, prevent us from operating in certain jurisdictions, or otherwise significantly harm our future international expansion and operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we could face substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products and our results of operations could be harmed. in addition to the risks described above under " risks relating to our lead product jakafi if the use of jakafi harms patients, or is perceived to harm patients even when such harm is unrelated to jakafi, our regulatory approval could be revoked or otherwise negatively impacted or we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims," the conduct of clinical trials of medical products that are intended for human use entails an inherent risk of product liability. if any product that we or any of our collaborators or licensees develops causes or is alleged to cause injury during clinical trials or commercialization, we may be held liable. if we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities, including substantial damages to be paid to the plaintiffs and legal costs, or we may be required to limit further development and commercialization of our products. additionally, any product liability lawsuit could cause injury to our reputation, participants and investigators to withdraw from clinical trials, and potential collaborators or licensees to seek other partners, any of which could impact our results of operations. our product liability insurance policy may not fully cover our potential liabilities. in addition, we may determine that we should increase our coverage, and this insurance may be prohibitively expensive to us or our collaborators or licensees and may not fully cover our potential liabilities. our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the development or commercialization of our drug candidates and products. because our activities involve the use of hazardous materials, we may be subject to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials that could be time consuming and costly. we are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the use, handling, storage and disposal of regulated substances and the health and safety of our employees. our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous and radioactive materials and biological waste resulting in the production of hazardous waste products. we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. if any injury or contamination results from our use or the use by our collaborators or licensees of these materials, we may be sued and our liability may exceed our insurance coverage and our total assets. further, we may be required to indemnify our collaborators or licensees against all damages and other liabilities arising out of our development activities or products produced in connection with these collaborations or licenses. compliance with the applicable environmental and workplace laws and regulations is expensive. future changes to environmental, health, workplace and safety laws could cause us to incur additional expense or may restrict our operations or impair our research, development and production efforts. 42 table of contents risks relating to our financial results we expect to incur losses in the future and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. we had net losses from inception in 1991 through 1996 and in 1999 through december 31, 2014. because of those losses, we had an accumulated deficit of $1.8 billion as of december 31, 2014. we intend to continue to spend significant amounts on our efforts to discover and develop drugs. as a result, we could continue to incur losses in 2015 and in future periods as well. we anticipate that our drug discovery and development efforts and related expenditures will increase as we focus on the studies, including preclinical tests and clinical trials prior to seeking regulatory approval, that are required before we can sell a drug product. the development of drug products will require us to spend significant funds on research, development, testing, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing and marketing. to date, we do not have any drug products that have generated significant revenues other than from sales of jakafi and we cannot assure you that we will generate significant revenues from the drug candidates that we license or develop, including jakafi, for several years, if ever. we cannot be certain whether or when we will achieve profitability because of the significant uncertainties relating to our ability to generate commercially successful drug products. even if we are successful in obtaining regulatory approvals for manufacturing and commercializing drug products in addition to jakafi, we expect that we will continue to incur losses if our drug products do not generate significant revenues. if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability. we will need additional capital in the future. if we are unable to generate sufficient funds from operations, the capital markets may not permit us to raise additional capital at the time that we require it, which could result in limitations on our research and development or commercialization efforts or the loss of certain of our rights in our technologies or drug candidates. our future funding requirements will depend on many factors and we anticipate that we may need to raise additional capital to fund our business plan and research and development efforts going-forward and to repay our indebtedness. additional factors that may affect our future funding requirements include: the amount of revenues generated from our business activities; any changes in the breadth of our research and development programs; the results of research and development, preclinical testing and clinical trials conducted by us or our current or future collaborators or licensees, if any; our exercise of any co-development options with collaborators that may require us to fund future development; the acquisition of businesses, technologies, or drug candidates, or the licensing of technologies or drug candidates, if any; our ability to maintain and establish new corporate relationships and research collaborations; competing technological and market developments; the time and costs involved in filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent and intellectual property claims; the receipt of contingent licensing or milestone fees or royalties on product sales from our current or future collaborative and license arrangements, if established; and 43 table of contents the timing of regulatory approvals, if any. if we require additional capital at a time when investment in companies such as ours, or in the marketplace generally, is limited due to the then prevailing market or other conditions, we may have to scale back our operations, eliminate one or more of our research or development programs, or attempt to obtain funds by entering into an agreement with a collaborator or licensee that would result in terms that are not favorable to us or relinquishing our rights in certain of our proprietary technologies or drug candidates. if we are unable to raise funds at the time that we desire or at any time thereafter on acceptable terms, we may not be able to continue to develop our drug candidates. the sale of equity or additional convertible debt securities in the future may be dilutive to our stockholders, and debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that could restrict our operations or our ability to incur further indebtedness. we have a large amount of debt and our debt service obligations may prevent us from taking actions that we would otherwise consider to be in our best interests. as of december 31, 2014, the aggregate principal amount of our total consolidated debt was $840.9 million and our stockholders' deficit was $81.6 million. our substantial leverage could have significant negative consequences for our future operations, including: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital and research and development expenditures, and general corporate purposes; requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our expected cash flow or our existing cash to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our cash available for other purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures and research and development expenditures; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; or placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. we may not generate sufficient cash flow from our operations in the future to enable us to meet our anticipated fixed charges, including our obligations with respect to our outstanding convertible senior notes. as of december 31, 2014, $90.9 million aggregate principal amount of our 4.75% convertible senior notes due 2015 was outstanding and due in october 2015. the remaining interest payments for our 4.75% convertible senior notes through 2015, assuming that none of these notes are converted, repurchased or exchanged, will total $4.3 million. as of december 31, 2014, $375.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 0.375% convertible senior notes due 2018 was outstanding and due in november 2018. annual interest payments for our 0.375% convertible senior notes through 2018, assuming that none of these notes are converted, repurchased or exchanged, are $1.4 million. as of december 31, 2014, $375.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 1.25% convertible senior notes due 2020 was outstanding and due in november 2020. annual interest payments for our 1.25% convertible senior notes through 2020, assuming that none of these notes are converted, repurchased or exchanged, are $4.7 million. if we are unable to generate cash from our operations or raise additional cash through financings sufficient to meet the remaining obligations under our convertible senior notes, we will need to use existing cash or liquidate marketable securities in order to fund these obligations, which may delay or curtail our research, development and commercialization programs. 44 table of contents our marketable securities are subject to certain risks that could adversely affect our overall financial position. we invest our cash in accordance with an established internal policy and customarily in instruments, corporate bonds and money market funds which historically have been highly liquid and carried relatively low risk. recently similar types of investments and money market funds have experienced losses in value or liquidity issues which differ from their historical pattern. should a portion of our cash or marketable securities lose value or have their liquidity impaired, it could adversely affect our overall financial position by imperiling our ability to fund our operations and forcing us to seek additional financing sooner than we would otherwise. such financing, if available, may not be available on commercially attractive terms. our current revenues are derived from jakafi product sales, jakavi product royalties, collaborations and from licensing our intellectual property. if we are unable to achieve milestones, develop products or renew or enter into new collaborations, our revenues may decrease, and future milestone and royalty payments may not contribute significantly to revenues for several years, and may never result in revenues. we derived substantially all of our revenues for the year ended december 31, 2014 from jakafi product revenues, jakavi product royalties and our collaborations and licensing our intellectual property to others. future revenues from research and development collaborations depend upon continuation of the collaborations, the achievement of milestones and royalties we earn from any future products developed from our research. if we are unable to successfully achieve milestones or our collaborators fail to develop successful products, we will not earn the future revenues contemplated under our collaborative agreements. risks relating to intellectual property and legal matters if we are subject to arbitration, litigation and infringement claims, they could be costly and disrupt our drug discovery and development efforts. the technology that we use to make and develop our drug products, the technology that we incorporate in our products, and the products we are developing may be subject to claims that they infringe the patents or proprietary rights of others. the success of our drug discovery and development efforts will also depend on our ability to develop new compounds, drugs and technologies without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. we are aware of patents and patent applications filed in certain countries claiming intellectual property relating to some of our drug discovery targets and drug candidates. while the validity of issued patents, patentability of pending patent applications and applicability of any of them to our programs are uncertain, if any of these patents are asserted against us or if we choose to license any of these patents, our ability to commercialize our products could be harmed or the potential return to us from any product that may be successfully commercialized could be diminished. from time to time we have received, and we may in the future receive, notices from third parties offering licenses to technology or alleging patent, trademark, or copyright infringement, claims regarding trade secrets or other contract claims. receipt of these notices could result in significant costs as a result of the diversion of the attention of management from our drug discovery and development efforts. parties sending these notices may have brought and in the future may bring litigation against us or seek arbitration relating to contract claims. we may be involved in future lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights or contract violations. in addition, litigation or other legal proceedings may be necessary to: assert claims of infringement; 45 table of contents enforce our patents or trademarks; protect our trade secrets or know-how; or determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. we may be unsuccessful in defending or pursuing these lawsuits, claims or other legal proceedings. regardless of the outcome, litigation or other legal proceedings can be very costly and can divert management's efforts. an adverse determination may subject us to significant liabilities or require us or our collaborators or licensees to seek licenses to other parties' patents or proprietary rights. we or our collaborators or licensees may also be restricted or prevented from manufacturing or selling a drug or other product that we or they develop. further, we or our future collaborators or licensees may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. if we are unable to develop non-infringing technology or license technology on a timely basis or on reasonable terms, our business could be harmed. we may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our proprietary information, which may result in its unauthorized use, a loss of revenue under a collaboration agreement or loss of sales to generic versions of our products or otherwise reduce our ability to compete in developing and commercializing products. our business and competitive position depends in significant part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology, including any drug products that we create. despite our efforts to protect this information, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. for example, one of our collaborators may disclose proprietary information pertaining to our drug discovery efforts. in addition, while we have filed numerous patent applications with respect to ruxolitinib and our drug candidates in the united states and in foreign countries, our patent applications may fail to result in issued patents. in addition, because patent applications can take several years to issue as patents, there may be pending patent applications of others that may later issue as patents that cover some aspect of ruxolitinib and our drug candidates. our existing patents and any future patents we may obtain may not be broad enough to protect our products or all of the potential uses of our products, or otherwise prevent others from developing competing products or technologies. in addition, our patents may be challenged and invalidated or may fail to provide us with any competitive advantages if, for example, others were first to invent or first to file a patent application for the technologies and products covered by our patents. additionally, when we do not control the prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of certain important intellectual property, such as a drug candidate in-licensed to us or subject to a collaboration with a third party, the protection of the intellectual property rights may not be in our hands. if we do not control the intellectual property rights in-licensed to us with respect to a drug candidate and the entity that controls the intellectual property rights does not adequately protect those rights, our rights may be impaired, which may impact our ability to develop, market and commercialize the in-licensed drug candidate. our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate, and our competitors may: independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, products and techniques; otherwise gain access to our proprietary information; or design around patents issued to us or our other intellectual property. we pursue a policy of having our employees, consultants and advisors execute proprietary information and invention agreements when they begin working for us. however, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. if we fail to maintain trade secret and patent protection, our potential, future revenues may be decreased. 46 table of contents if the effective term of our patents is decreased due to changes in the united states patent laws or if we need to refile some of our patent applications, the value of our patent portfolio and the revenues we derive from it may be decreased. the value of our patents depends in part on their duration. a shorter period of patent protection could lessen the value of our rights under any patents that we obtain and may decrease the revenues we derive from our patents. the united states patent laws were amended in 1995 to change the term of patent protection from 17 years from patent issuance to 20 years from the earliest effective filing date of the application. because the time from filing to issuance of biotechnology applications may be more than three years depending on the subject matter, a 20-year patent term from the filing date may result in substantially shorter patent protection. additionally, united states patent laws were amended in 2011 with the enactment of the america invents act and third parties are now able to challenge the validity of issued u.s. patents through various review proceedings; thus rendering the validity of u.s. patents more uncertain. we may be obligated to participate in review proceedings to determine the validity of our u.s. patents. we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these proceedings, the conduct of which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts and resources. if we are unsuccessful in these proceedings some or all of our claims in the patents may be narrowed or invalidated and the patent protection for our products and drug candidates in the united states could be substantially shortened. further, if all of the patents covering one of our products are invalidated, the fda could approve requests to manufacture a generic version of that product prior to the expiration date of those patents. other changes in the united states patent laws or changes in the interpretation of patent laws could diminish the value of our patents or narrow the scope of our patent protection. for example, the supreme court of the united states recently ruled that isolated dna sequences cannot be patented. although we no longer receive significant revenues generated from our former information products business, the majority of our gene patent portfolio from that business consists of patents on isolated dna sequences, and this ruling limits our ability to derive additional revenues from our gene patent portfolio. additionally, the supreme court recently resolved a split among the circuit courts of appeals regarding antitrust challenges to settlements of patent infringement lawsuits under the hatch-waxman act between brand-name drug companies and generic drug companies. the court rejected the "scope of the patent" test and ruled that settlements involving "reverse payments" from brand-name drug companies to generic drug companies should be analyzed under the rule of reason. this ruling may create uncertainty and make it more difficult to settle patent litigation if a company seeking to manufacture a generic version of one of our products challenges the patents covering that product prior to the expiration date of those patents. international patent protection is particularly uncertain and costly, and our involvement in opposition proceedings in foreign countries may result in the expenditure of substantial sums and management resources. biotechnology and pharmaceutical patent law outside the united states is even more uncertain and costly than in the united states and is currently undergoing review and revision in many countries. further, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as united states laws. for example, certain countries do not grant patent claims that are directed to the treatment of humans. we have participated, and may in the future participate, in opposition proceedings to determine the validity of our foreign patents or our competitors' foreign patents, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts. for example, there is a patent opposition proceeding in india against our indian patent that covers the composition of matter and use of certain janus kinase inhibitors, including ruxolitinib phosphate, for the treatment of myeloid proliferative disorders, cancer, immune-related diseases, skin disorders, and other diseases. successful challenges to our patent or other intellectual property rights through these proceedings could result in a loss of rights in the relevant jurisdiction and allow third parties to use our proprietary technologies without a license from us or our collaborators, which may also result in loss of future royalty payments. in addition, successful challenges may jeopardize or delay our ability to enter into new collaborations or commercialize potential products, which could harm our business and results of operations. 47 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 70 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our investments in marketable securities, which are composed primarily of u.s. government agency and non-agency mortgage-backed securities and corporate debt securities, are subject to default, changes in credit rating and changes in market value. these investments are also subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market rate interest rates increase. as of december 31, 2014, marketable securities were $148.0 million. due to the nature of these investments, if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as of december 31, 2014, the decline in fair value would not be material. 70 table of contentsrisk factors 15 , risk factors. given these risks and uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. except as required by federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements for any reason, even if new information becomes available or other events occur in the future. 2 in this report all references to incyte, we, us or our mean incyte corporation and our subsidiaries, except where it is made clear that the term means only the parent company. incyte is our registered trademark. we also refer to trademarks of other corporations and organizations in this annual report on form 10-k. overview incyte corporation is focused on the discovery and development of novel drugs to treat major medical conditions. our three core therapeutic areas are human immunodeficiency virus, or hiv, inflammation and cancer. we have assembled a team of scientists with core competencies in the areas of medicinal chemistry, and molecular, cellular and in vivo biology. our most advanced product candidate, dexelvucitabine or dfc (formerly known as reverset tm ), is a nucleoside analog reverse transcriptase inhibitor, or nrti, that is being developed as a once-a day oral therapy for use in combination with other antiviral drugs for patients with hiv infections. in 2005, we completed a phase iib clinical trial, study 203, in treatment-experienced hiv patients which demonstrated that dfc provided potent antiviral effects as compared to placebo and was most effective in patients who were not receiving 3tc, ftc or ddi, currently approved nrtis. in a meeting with the food &amp; drug administration ( fda ) to discuss moving dfc directly into two phase iii trials, the fda requested that we conduct a second phase iib clinical trial prior to initiating phase iii. this second phase iib clinical trial was initiated in february 2006. in addition to our dfc development program, we have several internal drug development programs underway. the most advanced of these programs is focused on developing antagonists to a key chemokine receptor involved in inflammation called ccr2. we believe that ccr2 receptor antagonists may represent a new class of compounds to treat various inflammation-driven diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis, diabetes, and atherosclerosis. in november 2005, we entered into a collaborative research and license agreement with pfizer inc. ( pfizer ), which became effective in january 2006. pfizer gained worldwide development and commercialization rights to incyte portfolio of ccr2 antagonist compounds, the most advanced of which is currently in phase iia clinical trials in rheumatoid arthritis and insulin-resistant obese patients. pfizer rights extend to the full scope of potential indications, with the exception of multiple sclerosis and one other undisclosed indication, where incyte retained worldwide rights, along with certain compounds. incyte does not have obligations to pfizer on pre-clinical development candidates it selects for pursuit in these indications. as part of this agreement, incyte may receive up to $803 million in milestone and other payments, including $40 million that was received as an upfront payment in january 2006 and $10 million that was received through the purchase of a convertible subordinated note in february 2006. our next most-advanced program involves novel sheddase inhibitors that we believe may have application in the treatment of breast cancer and other tumor types. based on results from single and multiple-dose-rising phase i clinical trials of our sheddase inhibitor lead candidate in healthy volunteers, we have initiated a phase ib/iia dose-ranging clinical trial in cancer patients. we have also selected an oral ccr5 antagonist compound that is expected to begin phase i clinical trials in healthy volunteers in the first half of 2006. our ccr5 compound in preclinical testing has shown potent anti-hiv activity in cell culture as well as excellent pharmacokinetic properties. we expect to complete phase i clinical trials in healthy volunteers in the second half of 2006. we have recently identified a novel proprietary compound with the potential to treat type 2 diabetes. the compound is a selective orally-available small molecule inhibitor of 11-beta hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 ( 11 hsd1 ) and is expected to begin phase i clinical trials in the first half of 2006. earlier stage programs have generated other compounds with potential for applications in cancer and inflammation. 3 in the past, our business focused on the development and sale of genomic and proteomic information products. however, in response to the decreasing commercial potential of this area, we made the decision in february 2004 to discontinue further development of the information products, close our palo alto headquarters and focus solely on the discovery and development of novel drugs. product candidate pipeline hiv portfolio dfc in september 2003, we signed a collaborative licensing agreement with pharmasset, inc. ( pharmasset ) to further develop and commercialize dfc. under our agreement with pharmasset, we paid pharmasset an upfront payment of $6.3 million and are required to pay future performance milestone payments and future royalties on net sales in exchange for exclusive rights in the united states, europe and certain other markets to develop, manufacture and market dfc. pharmasset will retain marketing and commercialization rights in certain territories, including south america, mexico, africa, the middle east, korea and china. in 1981, acquired immune deficiency syndrome (aids) was identified as a disease that severely compromised the human immune system. in 1983, it was reported that the cause of aids was determined to be the human immunodeficiency virus, commonly referred to as hiv. for the last 15 years, the advent of potent antiretroviral therapies and the introduction of highly active anti-retroviral therapy have markedly reduced morbidity and mortality for hiv-infected patients in developed countries. highly active anti-retroviral therapy is composed of multiple anti-hiv drugs and usually includes two nrtis and one protease inhibitor and or a non-nucleoside reverse transcription inhibitor. unfortunately, many patients do not achieve optimal results with existing therapies, and approximately 85% of treatment experienced patients develop drug resistance. as a result, there is a clear medical need for new hiv treatments. we believe dfc has the requisite characteristics to be developed as a new therapy primarily for treatment-experienced hiv patients. we are developing dfc as a once-a-day oral therapy for use in combination with other antiviral drugs for patients with hiv infections. in both preclinical and clinical studies, dfc has been shown to inhibit replication of hiv virus that has become fully or partially resistant to currently marketed nrtis such as 3tc, ftc, azt and tenofovir. our most recent clinical trial, study 203, a randomized double blind placebo controlled phase iib trial, involved 199 patients in the united states and europe. in september 2005, we met with representatives from the fda to discuss the results of study 203 and our plan to advance dfc into two phase iii pivotal clinical trials. during the meeting, fda representatives raised a concern that the rationale for moving dfc into phase iii development was based on several subgroup analyses that were unscheduled and post hoc and that the number of evaluable patients in the key subgroups was small. additionally, the fda was concerned that the low frequency of hyperlipasemia observed in the absence of ddl might represent a signal of the potential risk for development of pancreatitis in future studies. as a result, the fda requested that we conduct a second phase iib trial prior to progressing into phase iii. this second phase iib trial, study 204, was initiated in february 2006. study 204 has been designed to compare dfc directly to 3tc to confirm the results from study 203 and is expected to involve 250 treatment-experienced patients and over 100 clinical sites in the united states, europe and south america. ccr5 antagonist program we also have an oral ccr5 antagonist program. ccr5 is a major chemokine receptor that the hiv virus uses to enter cd4 cells, which are critical to the human immune system. once inside the cell, the hiv virus then teaches the cells how to make more hiv and plays a key role in viral transmission and replication during the early phase of the disease process. we believe ccr5 antagonists may represent a new class of hiv drugs given their potential to bind specifically to ccr5 receptors and, in turn, block the hiv virus before it enters human cells. we expect to complete the investigational new drug application, or ind, and initiate a phase i clinical trial in healthy volunteers for the lead compound in this program in the first half of 2006. 4 inflammation portfolio ccr2 receptor antagonist program chemokines are proteins, secreted at sites of injury or inflammation that attract and activate leukocytes, or white blood cells, such as monocytes. ccr2 is a key chemokine receptor found on monocytes that controls their migration into sites of inflammation, where they differentiate into tissue scavenger cells known as macrophages. although, in their normal role, macrophages scavenge foreign organisms or injured tissues, excessive or inappropriately triggered macrophage activity can cause damage to tissues and provoke a chronic inflammatory response. for example, in rheumatoid arthritis, macrophages secrete chemokines and cytokines, perpetuating the inflammatory response, and also produce proteases that degrade cartilage and contribute to joint destruction. ccr2 receptor antagonists may thus substantially reduce tissue damage and limit the degree of the inflammatory process in rheumatoid arthritis and other inflammation-driven disorders, including multiple sclerosis, diabetes, and atherosclerosis, by blocking the migration and recruitment of macrophages. we have identified a series of orally-available ccr2 receptor antagonist compounds. the most advanced compound from this program, incb-3284, is in phase iia clinical trials in rheumatoid arthritis and insulin-resistant obese patients. in november 2005, we entered into a collaborative research and license agreement with pfizer under which pfizer gained worldwide development and commercialization rights to incyte portfolio of ccr2 antagonist compounds, with the exception of two indications. incyte received an upfront non refundable payment of $40 million in january 2006 and is eligible to receive additional future development and milestone payments of up to $743 million for the successful development and commercialization of ccr2 antagonists in multiple indications, as well as royalties on worldwide sales. pfizer purchased a $10 million convertible subordinated note in february 2006 and may purchase an additional $10 million note at incyte option after incyte files an ind in a retained incyte indication. the notes will bear no interest, are due seven years from the date of issuance and will be convertible into incyte common stock. under the agreement, pfizer will also provide research funding to incyte to support the continued expansion of the ccr2 compound portfolio. we are pursuing multiple sclerosis as an indication for our retained ccr2 antagonist because the accumulation of inflammatory macrophages in the human central nervous system appears to be a key step in the pathological cascade that characterizes multiple sclerosis and leads to exacerbations of the disease. based on a growing body of preclinical evidence, we believe selective ccr2 antagonism in this setting has the potential to disrupt the recruitment and accumulation of these inflammatory macrophages and thus interrupt or ameliorate the pathological cascade seen in multiple sclerosis and, in turn, modify the course of this disease, relieve symptoms and improve patient outcomes. we have selected a lead clinical candidate and intend to initiate a phase i clinical trial in healthy volunteers in the second half of 2006. we have retained a second indication that for competitive reasons we have not disclosed, which also has the potential to benefit from an oral ccr2 antagonist treatment. new program we also have a second compound in preclinical development for inflammation that is distinct from our ccr2 antagonists. by year end, we expect to complete studies that may support the submission of an ind for this compound. cancer portfolio sheddase inhibitor program as the fundamental biology of cancer has been explored at the molecular level, new therapeutics are emerging that distinguish themselves from the classic, relatively non-selective, cytotoxic agents. these new therapies are targeted specifically to pathways or proteins that are more critical for the growth of tumor cells than for the growth of normal cells, thereby having the potential to provide a greater therapeutic index, both when used alone and in combination with cytotoxic agents. currently approved targeted therapeutics of this type, including gleevec , have proven to be of value in the treatment of certain important tumor types. 5 the signaling pathways that utilize the receptors and ligands of the epidermal growth factor receptor (egfr) family play a key role in the growth and survival of multiple tumor types, including breast, colorectal, and non-small cell lung cancers. there are multiple forms of both the receptors (for example, her1 and her2) and the corresponding ligands (such as egf and tgfalpha). reduction in the signaling of one of these pathways by antibodies that bind to a specific egfr-family receptor (her2), interfering with ligand-induced activation, has shown efficacy in certain breast cancers. an alternative approach to interfere with egfr signaling is through the administration of a tyrosine kinase inhibitor such as tarceva. we have identified a third way to inhibit egfr signaling pathways, which we believe may be both complementary with the two approaches described above and possibly more broadly effective. egfr family ligands must be cleaved from larger, cell-attached proteins in order to be released in their soluble active form. egfr family receptors are also subject to cleavage, which in this case results in a constitutively activated receptor that does not require the presence of the corresponding ligand for signaling. we have identified a protease whose action appears to contribute to the growth and metastasis of breast cancer and possibly other cancers. proteases are enzymes that catalyze the splitting of proteins into smaller peptide fractions and amino acids. inhibition of this protease, referred to as sheddase, could thus interfere with signaling in a considerable range of tumor types which use egfr family signaling. we have identified novel, potent, and orally available small-molecule inhibitors of sheddase that show efficacy in animal tumor models as single agents. we began phase i clinical trials with the lead compound from this program in march 2005. based on the results of our single and multiple dose phase i clinical trials, we initiated a phase ib/iia dose-ranging clinical trial in refractory cancer patients with solid tumors in october 2005. in this trial we plan to include patients with a variety of solid tumors such as breast, non-small cell lung, prostate, colorectal and head and neck cancers, all of which can be associated with excessive signaling of epidermal growth factor receptors (her1, her2, her3). new program we also have a lead preclinical candidate for cancer that addresses a different target. by year end, we expect to complete studies that may support the submission of an ind for this candidate. diabetes opportunity hsd program we have developed a series of novel proprietary small molecule inhibitors of 11 hsd1, an enzyme that converts the biologically-inactive steroid cortisone into the potent biologically-active hormone cortisol. 11 hsd1 inhibitors may have the potential to be developed to treat type 2 diabetes by controlling both insulin production and insulin resistance. the lead compound in this program is incb13739. unlike insulin, which is produced by beta-cells in the pancreas and maintains normal blood glucose levels, cortisol elevates blood glucose levels by promoting glucose production in the liver and inhibiting the uptake and disposal of glucose in muscle and adipose tissue. in this way, cortisol acts an antagonist of insulin. recent preclinical findings suggest that 11 hsd1-mediated production of cortisol may increase the body resistance to insulin and lead to elevated blood glucose and type 2 diabetes. inhibition of cortisol production may prevent the progression of insulin resistance to type 2 diabetes. current treatments for type 2 diabetes increase the production of insulin or the body sensitivity to insulin, but few address both components of insulin control, and most produce unwanted side effects. as a result, many patients do not achieve optimal reductions in blood glucose levels and experience life-threatening disease complications. by selectively inhibiting 11 hsd1 and reducing the level of cortisol available in multiple key tissues, we believe incb13739 may address both components of the disease insulin production and insulin resistance and offer a new approach to treating type 2 diabetes and other 6 conditions often associated with this disease, such as dyslipidemia, atherosclerosis, and coronary heart disease. we expect to begin a phase i clinical trial of incb13739 in the first half of 2006. in addition to the programs described above, we have a number of earlier-stage efforts in cancer and inflammation. background on incyte transition into small-molecule drug discovery and development we were founded in 1991. before the completion of our transition into a drug discovery and development company, we marketed and sold access to our genomic information databases. however, in recent years, consolidation within the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors and a challenging economic environment led to reduced demand for research tools and services. this trend, together with the public availability of genomic information, significantly reduced the market for and revenues from, our information products. on february 2, 2004, we announced substantial changes in our information products operations, including the closure of our palo alto, california facility and the cessation of development of the information products developed at this facility. in january 2005, we sold certain assets and liabilities related to our proteome facility based in beverly, massachusetts. we no longer have any activities in the information products area. however, we retain certain existing licenses and licensing activities related to the intellectual property portfolio generated prior to the transition. incyte approach to drug discovery and development in november 2001, we recruited paul a. friedman, m.d., the former president of dupont pharmaceuticals research laboratories, to serve as our chief executive officer and to lead our drug discovery and development efforts. we then began our transition from information products to our current focus on drug discovery and development. with the recruitment of dr. brian metcalf, formerly head of worldwide medicinal chemistry and platform technologies at smithkline beecham, and an experienced team of chemists, pharmacologists, and molecular biologists largely drawn from dupont pharmaceuticals, we have assembled a strongly credentialed and experienced drug discovery team, including approximately 141 scientists, approximately equally divided between biologists and chemists. in biology, we have experience in the research areas of inflammation and cancer and our chemists have broad pharmaceutical experience in designing novel small molecule compounds, including compounds in the fields of inflammation, hiv, diabetes and cancer. we have complemented this discovery team with personnel experienced in drug development. we have established a wide breadth of discovery capabilities in-house, including target validation, high-throughput screening, medicinal chemistry, computational chemistry, and pharmacological assessment, and we intend to continue to augment these capabilities through collaborations with academic and contract laboratory resources with specialized expertise. we have integrated our chemistry and biology teams with development experts in the critical areas of drug metabolism, formulation, and toxicology. we believe that early emphasis on these areas is critical to the optimization of lead clinical candidates with the greatest likelihood of success, and that this emphasis, together with our strength in medicinal chemistry, may allow us to avoid critical pitfalls related to the safety and efficacy of our compounds in later clinical trials. we are focused on three core therapeutic areas: hiv, inflammation and cancer. this focus allows us to apply resources to our selected programs at a level that we believe is competitive with much larger pharmaceutical companies. this level of resource allocation, particularly in the area of chemistry, was a key to our early success in the identification of a proprietary ccr2 antagonist clinical candidate. while ccr2 is a well-known target, and there is extensive animal model evidence for its role in disease, it is a chemically challenging target and certain companies active in this area have been unsuccessful in 7 synthesizing a novel small molecule compound that could qualify for pharmaceutical development. in contrast, we were able to identify a clinical candidate within twelve months of initiating screening. the selection of ccr2 as a target is also indicative of our strategy of focusing on targets in our areas of in-depth biological expertise, particularly inflammation and cancer. we select targets for which there is extensive animal and laboratory evidence of their importance in disease, such that through the application of our medicinal chemistry capabilities we believe that we have the opportunity to generate novel molecules for further development that have the potential to be the best in their therapeutic class. these targets may either be publicly known, such as ccr2, or identified in-house, such as sheddase. we intend to devote sufficient resources to generate follow-up candidates and multiple chemical series for the programs we pursue. we believe that this strategy may allow us to generate additional opportunities in the event of development failure or, more positively, for the pursuit of multiple indications for compound classes with that potential. commercial strategy as discussed above, our internal programs are focused on the discovery and development of new therapies to address major medical needs in inflammatory disease, hiv, oncology, and diabetes. for some of these programs, such as those in hiv, oncology, and multiple sclerosis, which tend to be managed by a concentrated, well-defined group of physicians, we may elect to develop our products through to commercialization. for others, such as those that address major primary care markets, we intend to seek strategic alliances with major pharmaceutical companies, such as the collaboration with pfizer for our ccr2 program. we also plan to pursue further in-licensing opportunities which could augment our efforts and accelerate the growth of our pipeline. we intend to seek approval from the fda for, and if successful, to commercialize dfc in the united states ourselves. in europe, we intend to make a future determination whether to commercialize dfc ourselves, or to form a co-commercialization alliance with another company with an established hiv franchise. patents and other intellectual property we regard the protection of patents and other enforceable intellectual property rights that we own or license as critical to our business and competitive position. accordingly, we rely on patent, trade secret and copyright law, as well as nondisclosure and other contractual arrangements, to protect our intellectual property. we have established a patent portfolio of owned or in-licensed patents and patent applications that cover aspects of all our drug candidates, as well as other patents and patent applications that relate to full-length genes and genomics-related technologies obtained as a result of our high-throughput gene sequencing efforts. the patents and patent applications relating to our drug candidates generally include claims directed to the drug candidates, methods of using the drug candidates, formulations of the drug candidates, and methods of manufacturing the drug candidates. our policy is to pursue patent applications on inventions and discoveries we believe that are commercially important to the development and growth of our business. we have a number of established patent license agreements relating to our gene patent portfolio and our genomics-related technology patent portfolio. we are presently receiving royalties and other payments under certain of our gene and genomics-related patent license agreements. under our gene patent license agreements, we may in the future receive royalties and other payments if our partners are successful in their efforts to discover drugs and diagnostics under these license agreements. under the terms of our collaborative license agreement relating to dfc, pharmasset granted us exclusive rights under its patent rights in the united states, europe, and certain other markets to develop, manufacture and market dfc. the licensed patent rights include coverage of uses of dfc, methods of 8 making dfc and methods of dosing of dfc. patent rights that we have exclusively licensed from pharmasset include three u.s. patents and their related foreign filings in europe, canada, australia and japan directed to the use of dfc to treat hiv that pharmasset has exclusively licensed from emory university. the u.s. patents expire in 2015, provided the applicable maintenance fees are paid and the patents, if challenged, are not held to be invalid. we have also exclusively sublicensed from pharmasset a u.s. patent application and related foreign filings directed to combinations of dfc with certain other anti-viral agents that pharmasset has exclusively licensed from emory university. u.s. patents arising under this application, if issued, will expire in 2020 provided the applicable maintenance fees are paid and the patents, if challenged, are not held to be invalid. in addition, we co-own with pharmasset a u.s. patent application and related foreign filings directed to enteric dosing regimens. u.s. patents arising under this application, if issued, will expire in 2024 provided the applicable maintenance fees are paid and the patents, if challenged, are not held to be invalid. we have also licensed from pharmasset a u.s. patent and related foreign filings directed to a method for the manufacture of dfc. the u.s. patent will expire in 2022 provided the applicable maintenance fees are paid and the patents, if challenged, are not held to be invalid. one or more of these patents rights may qualify for a patent term extension to partially compensate for time spent in clinical review by the fda or corresponding foreign agencies, however, any such patent term extension may only provide limited proprietary protection during the period of extension. we have obtained some of the patent rights used in our drug discovery and development programs, such as our dfc program, through exclusive licenses with others. we intend to seek to license additional rights relating to compounds or technologies in connection with our drug discovery and development programs. under these licenses, we may be required to pay up-front fees, license fees, milestone payments and royalties on sales of future products. although we believe our rights under patents and patent applications provide a competitive advantage, the patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. we may not be able to develop patentable products or processes, and may not be able to obtain patents from pending applications. even if patent claims are allowed, the claims may not issue, or in the event of issuance, may not be sufficient to protect the technology owned by or licensed to us. any patent or other intellectual property rights that we own or obtain may be circumvented, challenged or invalidated by our competitors. others may have patents that relate to our business or technology and that may prevent us from marketing our product candidates unless we are able to obtain a license to those patents. in addition, we could incur substantial costs in litigation or other legal proceedings to enforce our patent or other intellectual property rights or to defend ourselves in patent or other intellectual property right suits brought by third parties. enactment of legislation implementing the general agreement on tariffs and trade has resulted in certain changes to united states patent laws that became effective on june 8, 1995. most notably, the term of patent protection for patents issued under patent applications filed on or after june 8, 1995 is no longer a period of 17 years from the date of issuance. the new term of those patents will commence on the date of issuance and terminate 20 years from the earliest effective filing date of the application. because the time from filing to issuance of biotechnology patent applications is often more than three years, a 20-year term from the effective date of filing may result in a substantially shortened period of patent protection, which may limit the benefit of our patent position. with respect to proprietary information that is not patentable, and for inventions for which patents are difficult to enforce, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect our interests. while we require all employees, consultants and potential business partners to enter into confidentiality agreements, we may not be able to protect adequately our trade secrets or other proprietary information. others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. 9 competition our drug discovery and development activities face, and will continue to face, intense competition from organizations such as pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as academic and research institutions and government agencies. our major competitors include fully integrated pharmaceutical companies that have extensive drug discovery efforts and are developing novel small molecule pharmaceuticals. we face significant competition from organizations that are pursuing pharmaceuticals that are competitive with our potential products. with respect to our most advanced product candidate, dfc, several companies are already marketing various nrtis, including glaxosmithkline, gilead sciences, and bristol myers squibb. many companies and institutions, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, have substantially greater financial resources and larger research and development staffs than we do. in addition, many competitors, either alone or together with their collaborative partners, have significantly greater experience than we do in: drug discovery; developing products; undertaking preclinical testing and clinical trials; obtaining fda and other regulatory approvals of products; and manufacturing, marketing, distributing and selling products. accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection, receiving fda approval or commercializing products before we do. if we commence commercial product sales, we will be competing against companies with greater manufacturing, marketing, distributing and selling capabilities, areas in which we have limited or no experience. in addition, any drug candidate that we successfully develop may compete with existing therapies that have long histories of safe and effective use. competition may also arise from: other drug development technologies and methods of preventing or reducing the incidence of disease; new small molecules; or other classes of therapeutic agents. developments by others may render our drug candidates obsolete or noncompetitive. we face and will continue to face intense competition from other companies for collaborative arrangements with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, for establishing relationships with academic and research institutions and for licenses to proprietary technology. these competitors, either alone or with their collaborative partners, may succeed in developing products that are more effective than ours. our ability to compete successfully will depend, in part, on our ability to: develop proprietary products; develop and maintain products that reach the market first, are technologically superior to and/or are of lower cost than other products in the market; attract and retain scientific and product development personnel; obtain patent or other proprietary protection for our products and technologies; obtain required regulatory approvals; and manufacture, market, distribute and sell any products that we develop. 10 in a number of countries, including in particular, developing countries, government officials and other groups have suggested that pharmaceutical companies should make drugs for hiv infection available at a low cost. in some cases, governmental authorities have indicated that where pharmaceutical companies do not do so, their patents might not be enforceable to prevent generic competition. some major pharmaceutical companies have greatly reduced prices for hiv drugs in certain developing countries. if certain countries do not permit enforcement of our patents, should dfc be approved for marketing, sales of dfc in those countries, and in other countries by importation from low-price countries, could be reduced by generic competition or by parallel importation of our product. alternatively, governments in those countries could require that we grant compulsory licenses to allow competitors to manufacture and sell their own versions of dfc in those countries, thereby reducing our dfc sales, or we could respond to governmental concerns by reducing prices for dfc. in all of these situations, our results of operations could be adversely affected. government regulation our related ongoing research and development activities and any manufacturing and marketing of our potential small molecule products to treat major medical conditions are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities in the united states and other countries. before marketing in the united states, any drug developed by us must undergo rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory clearance process implemented by the fda under the united states food, drug and cosmetic act. the fda regulates, among other things, the development, testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, record-keeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of these products. none of our drug candidates has, to date, been submitted for approval for sale in the united states or any foreign market. the regulatory review and approval process, which includes preclinical testing and clinical trials of each drug candidate, is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. securing fda approval requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data and supporting information to the fda for each indication to establish a drug candidate safety and efficacy. the approval process takes many years, requires the expenditure of substantial resources, involves post-marketing surveillance and may involve ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies. before commencing clinical investigations in humans, we must submit to, and receive approval from, the fda of an ind application. the steps required before a drug may be marketed in the united states include: preclinical laboratory tests, animal studies and formulation studies; submission to the fda of an ind for human clinical testing, which must become effective before human clinical trials may commence; adequate and well-controlled clinical trials in three phases, as described below, to establish the safety and efficacy of the drug for each indication; submission to the fda of a new drug application, or nda, which must become effective before marketing can commence; satisfactory completion of an fda inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the drug is produced to assess compliance with current good manufacturing practices; and fda review and approval of the nda. similar requirements exist within many foreign agencies as well. the time required to satisfy fda requirements or similar requirements of foreign regulatory agencies may vary substantially based on the type, complexity and novelty of the product or the targeted disease. preclinical testing includes laboratory evaluation of product chemistry, toxicity and formulation, as well as animal studies. the results of the preclinical tests, together with manufacturing information and 11 analytical data, are submitted to the fda as part of an ind. an ind will automatically become effective 30 days after receipt by the fda, unless before that time, the fda raises concerns or questions about issues such as the conduct of the clinical trials as outlined in the ind. in the latter case, the ind sponsor and the fda must resolve any outstanding fda concerns or questions before clinical trials can proceed. we cannot be sure that submission of an ind will result in the fda allowing clinical trials to commence. clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational drug to human subjects under the supervision of qualified investigators. clinical trials are conducted under protocols detailing the objectives of the study, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. each protocol must be submitted to the fda as part of the ind and each trial must be reviewed and approved by an independent ethics committee or institutional review board (irb) before it can begin. clinical trials typically are conducted in three sequential phases, but the phases may overlap or be combined. phase i usually involves the initial introduction of the investigational drug into healthy volunteers to evaluate its safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution and excretion, and, if possible, to gain an early indication of its effectiveness. phase ii usually involves clinical trials in a limited patient population to: evaluate dosage tolerance and optimal dosage; identify possible adverse effects and safety risks; and evaluate and gain preliminary evidence of the efficacy of the drug for specific indications. phase iii clinical trials usually further evaluate clinical efficacy and safety by testing the drug in its final form in an expanded patient population, providing statistical evidence of efficacy and safety and providing an adequate basis for physician labeling. we cannot guarantee that phase i, phase ii or phase iii testing will be completed successfully within any specified period of time, if at all. furthermore, we or the fda may suspend clinical trials at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. additional testing (phase iv) may be conducted after fda approval for marketing is granted and would be designed to evaluate alternative utilizations of drug products prior to their being marketed for such alternative utilizations as well as to test for complications resulting from long term exposure not revealed in earlier clinical testing. clinical trials must meet requirements for irb oversight, informed consent and good clinical practices. clinical trials must be conducted under fda oversight. before receiving fda clearance to market a product, we must demonstrate that the product is safe and effective for the patient population that will be treated. if regulatory clearance of a product is granted, this clearance will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which the product is safe and effective, as demonstrated through clinical trials. marketing or promoting a drug for an unapproved indication is prohibited. furthermore, clearance may entail ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies. even if this regulatory clearance is obtained, a marketed product, its manufacturer and its manufacturing facilities are subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the fda. discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or facility may result in restrictions on this product, manufacturer or facility, including costly recalls or withdrawal of the product from the market. 12 the length of time and related costs necessary to complete clinical trials varies significantly and may be difficult to predict. clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals. additional factors that can cause delay or termination of our clinical trials, or cause the costs of these clinical trials to increase, include: slow patient enrollment due to the nature of the protocol, the proximity of patients to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the study, competition with clinical trials for other drug candidates or other factors; inadequately trained or insufficient personnel at the study site to assist in overseeing and monitoring clinical trials; delays in approvals from a study site irb; longer than anticipated treatment time required to demonstrate effectiveness or determine the appropriate product dose; lack of sufficient supplies of the drug candidate for use in clinical trials; adverse medical events or side effects in treated patients; and lack of effectiveness of the drug candidate being tested. any drug is likely to produce some toxicities or undesirable side effects in animals and in humans when administered at sufficiently high doses and/or for sufficiently long periods of time. unacceptable toxicities or side effects may occur at any dose level, and at any time in the course of animal studies designed to identify unacceptable effects of a drug candidate, known as toxicological studies, or in clinical trials of our potential products. the appearance of any unacceptable toxicity or side effect could cause us or regulatory authorities to interrupt, limit, delay or abort the development of any of our drug candidates, and could ultimately prevent their marketing clearance by the fda or foreign regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications. the fda fast track program is intended to facilitate the development and expedite the review of drug candidates intended for the treatment of serious or life-threatening diseases and that demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs for these conditions. under this program, the fda can, for example, review portions of an nda for a fast track product before the entire application is complete, thus potentially beginning the review process at an earlier time. our lead program, dfc for the treatment of hiv, may be eligible for fast track designation, and we may seek to have some of our current or future drug candidates designated as fast track products, with the goal of reducing the development and review time. we cannot guarantee that the fda will grant any of our requests for fast track designation, that any fast track designation would affect the time of review or that the fda will approve the nda submitted for any of our drug candidates, whether or not fast track designation is granted. additionally, fda approval of a fast track product can include restrictions on the product use or distribution (such as permitting use only for specified medical procedures or limiting distribution to physicians or facilities with special training or experience). approval of fast track products can be conditioned on additional clinical trials after approval. fda procedures also provide for priority review of ndas submitted for drugs that, compared to currently marketed products, offer a significant improvement in the treatment, diagnosis or prevention of a disease. the fda seeks to review ndas that are granted priority status more quickly than ndas given standard status. the fda stated policy is to act on 90% of priority ndas within six months of receipt. although the fda historically has not met these goals, the agency has made significant improvements in the timeliness of the review process. we anticipate seeking priority review of dfc, and may do so with 13 regard to some of our other current or future drug candidates. we cannot guarantee that the fda will grant priority review status in any instance, that priority review status would affect the actual time of review or that the fda will ultimately approve the nda submitted for any of our drug candidates, whether or not priority review status is granted. we and any of our contract manufacturers are also required to comply with applicable fda current good manufacturing practice regulations. good manufacturing practices include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance as well as to corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. manufacturing facilities are subject to inspection by the applicable regulatory authorities. these facilities, whether our own or our contract manufacturers, must be approved before we can use them in commercial manufacturing of our related products. we or our contract manufacturers may not be able to comply with applicable good manufacturing practices and fda or other regulatory requirements. if we or our contract manufacturers fail to comply, we or our contract manufacturers may be subject to legal or regulatory action, such as suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product, or voluntary recall of product. furthermore, continued compliance with applicable good manufacturing practices will require continual expenditure of time, money and effort on the part of us or our contract manufacturers in the areas of production and quality control and record keeping and reporting, in order to ensure full compliance. outside the united states, our ability to market a product is contingent upon receiving a marketing authorization from the appropriate regulatory authorities. the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, marketing authorization, pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country. at present, foreign marketing authorizations are applied for at a national level, although within the european union, or eu, regional registration procedures are available to companies wishing to market a product in more than one eu member state. if the regulatory authority is satisfied that adequate evidence of safety, quality and efficacy has been presented, a marketing authorization may be granted. this foreign regulatory approval process involves all of the risks associated with fda approval discussed above and may also include additional risks. human resources as of december 31, 2005, we had 177 employees, including 141 in research and development and 36 in business development, finance, operations support and administrative positions. none of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements, and management considers relations with our employees to be good. research and development since our inception, we have made substantial investments in research and technology development. during 2005, 2004 and 2003, we incurred research and development expenses of $95.6 million, $88.3 million and $111.4 million, respectively. we incurred no purchased in-process research and development expenses during 2005 or 2004. during 2003, we incurred purchased in-process research and development expenses of $34.0 million. available information our website is located at www.incyte.com . we make available free of charge on our website our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the securities and exchange commission. our website and the information contained therein or connected thereto are not intended to be incorporated into this annual report on form 10-k. 14 item 1a. risk factors risks relating to our business we are at the early stage of our drug discovery and development efforts and we may be unsuccessful in our efforts. we are in the early stage of building our drug discovery and development operations. our ability to discover, develop, and commercialize pharmaceutical products will depend on our ability to: hire and retain key scientific employees; identify high quality therapeutic targets; identify potential drug candidates; develop products internally or license drug candidates from others; identify and enroll suitable human subjects, either in the united states or abroad, for our clinical trials; complete laboratory testing and clinical trials on humans; obtain and maintain necessary intellectual property rights to our products; obtain and maintain necessary regulatory approvals for our products, both in the united states and abroad; enter into arrangements with third parties to provide services or to manufacture our products on our behalf, or develop efficient production facilities meeting all regulatory requirements; deploy sales and marketing resources effectively or enter into arrangements with third parties to provide these functions; lease facilities at reasonable rates to support our growth; and enter into arrangements with third parties to license and commercialize our products. of the compounds that we identify as potential drug products or that we in-license from other companies, only a few, at most, are statistically likely to lead to successful drug development programs. significant research and development efforts will be necessary. we have limited experience with these activities and may not be successful in discovering, developing, or commercializing drug products. if we choose to outsource some of these activities, we may be unable to enter into outsourcing or licensing agreements on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. in addition, if we elect to manufacture our products in our own manufacturing facilities, we will require substantial additional capital resources to lease or build and maintain those facilities, including attracting and retaining qualified personnel to lease or build and operate our facilities. our efforts to discover and develop potential drug candidates may not lead to the discovery, development, commercialization or marketing of drug products. we are currently engaged in a number of different approaches to discover and develop novel drug candidates. at the present time, we have three drug candidates, dfc, our lead ccr2 antagonist licensed to pfizer, and our lead sheddase inhibitor in phase iib, phase iia, and phase ib/iia clinical trials, respectively. our other internal drug discovery programs are focused on compounds with potential for applications in hiv, diabetes and cancer. discovery and development of potential drug candidates are expensive and time-consuming, and we do not know if our efforts will lead to discovery of any drug candidates that can be successfully developed and marketed. if our efforts do not lead to the discovery of a 15 suitable drug candidate, we may be unable to grow our clinical pipeline or we may be unable to enter into agreements with collaborators who are willing to develop our drug candidates. the success of our drug discovery and development efforts may depend on our ability to find suitable collaborators to fully exploit our capabilities. if we are unable to establish collaborations or if these future collaborations are unsuccessful, our research and development efforts may be unsuccessful, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. an important element of our business strategy will be to enter into collaborative or license arrangements with other parties, such as our collaboration with pfizer, under which we license our drug candidates to those parties for development and commercialization. we expect that while we may initially seek to conduct initial clinical trials on our drug candidates, we will need to seek collaborators for a number of our drug candidates, such as our chemokine receptor antagonists, because of the expense, effort and expertise required to continue additional clinical trials and further develop those drug candidates. because collaboration arrangements are complex to negotiate, we may not be successful in our attempts to establish these arrangements. also, we may not have drug compounds that are desirable to other parties, or we may be unwilling to license a drug compound because the party interested in it is a competitor. the terms of any such arrangements that we establish may not be favorable to us. alternatively, potential collaborators may decide against entering into an agreement with us because of our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position or for scientific, commercial or other reasons. if we are not able to establish collaborative agreements, we may not be able to develop and commercialize a drug product, which would adversely affect our business and our revenues. in order for any of these collaboration or license arrangements to be successful, we must first identify potential collaborators or licensees whose capabilities complement and integrate well with ours. we may rely on these arrangements for not only financial resources, but also for expertise or economies of scale that we expect to need in the future relating to clinical trials, manufacturing, sales and marketing, and for licenses to technology rights. however, it is likely that we will not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators or licensees devote to our programs or potential products. if our collaborators or licensees prove difficult to work with, are less skilled than we originally expected or do not devote adequate resources to the program, the relationship will not be successful. if a business combination involving a collaborator or licensees and a third party were to occur, the effect could be to diminish, terminate or cause delays in development of a potential product. we face significant competition for our drug discovery and development efforts, and if we do not compete effectively, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated. the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. our drug discovery and development efforts may target diseases and conditions that are already subject to existing therapies or that are being developed by our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, more experience in completing preclinical testing and clinical trials in order to obtain regulatory approvals and formulation, marketing and manufacturing capabilities. as a result of these resources, our competitors may develop drug products that render our products obsolete or noncompetitive by developing more effective drugs or by developing their products more efficiently. our ability to develop competitive products would be limited if our competitors succeeded in obtaining regulatory approvals for drug candidates more rapidly than we were able to or in obtaining patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limited our drug development efforts. any drugs resulting from our research and development efforts, or from our joint efforts with collaborators or licensees, might not be able to compete successfully with our competitors existing and future products, or obtain regulatory approval in the united states or elsewhere. 16 our ability to develop and commercialize dfc may be adversely affected if a dispute arose with pharmasset or between pharmasset and its licensor emory university. we are developing dfc under a collaborative licensing agreement with pharmasset entered into in september 2003 under which pharmasset exclusively sublicensed to us certain rights in dfc, including certain of its analogs and derivatives that were developed by pharmasset or that were in-licensed by pharmasset from emory. if a dispute arose with pharmasset over the terms of the collaborative license agreement or a dispute arose between pharmasset and emory over the terms of the license agreement between them, including the alleged breach of any provision, our development, commercialization and marketing of dfc may be adversely affected. pharmasset has the right to terminate the agreement if we do not use commercially reasonable efforts to develop or commercialize dfc in our territories. if pharmasset terminates the agreement for cause, or if we terminate the agreement without cause, all licenses to us under the agreement terminate. we depend on our collaboration with pfizer for the development and commercialization of ccr2 antagonist compounds. under our collaborative research and license agreement with pfizer, pfizer gained worldwide development and commercialization rights to our portfolio of ccr2 antagonist compounds. pfizer rights extend to the full scope of potential indications, with the exception of multiple sclerosis and one other undisclosed indication. although pfizer is required to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize ccr2 antagonists for the indications for which they are responsible, we cannot control the amount and timing of resources pfizer may devote to the development of ccr2 antagonists. any failure of pfizer to perform its obligations under our agreement could negatively impact the development of ccr2 antagonists, lead to our loss of potential revenues from product sales and milestones and delay our achievement, if any, of profitability. pfizer has certain rights to terminate the license agreement, including the right to terminate upon 90 days notice for any reason. pfizer also has the right to terminate its rights and obligations with respect to certain indications. if pfizer terminates the license agreement or its rights with respect to certain indications, we may not be able to find a new collaborator to replace pfizer, and our business could be adversely affected. if conflicts arise between our collaborators including pharmasset and pfizer, licensees, or advisors and us, our collaborators, licensees, or advisors may act in their self-interest, which may adversely affect our business. if conflicts arise between us and our collaborators or licensees, including pharmasset and pfizer, or our scientific advisors, the other party may act in its self-interest and not in the interest of our stockholders. conflicts may arise with our collaborators or licensees if they pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products either on their own or in collaboration with others as a means for developing treatments for the diseases that we have targeted. competing products, either developed by these future collaborators or licensees or to which these future collaborators or licensees have rights, may result in their withdrawal of support for our product candidates. additionally, conflicts may arise if there is a dispute about the achievement and payment of a milestone amount or the ownership of intellectual property that is developed during the course of the relationship. similarly, the parties to a collaboration or license agreement may disagree as to which party owns newly developed products. should an agreement be terminated as a result of a dispute and before we have realized the benefits of the collaboration or license, our reputation could be harmed and we may not obtain revenues that we anticipated receiving. 17 if we fail to enter into additional licensing agreements or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our business and operations might be adversely affected. in addition to establishing collaborative or license arrangements under which other parties license our drug candidates for development and commercialization, we intend to continue to explore opportunities to develop our clinical pipeline by in-licensing drug compounds that fit within our expertise and research and development capabilities. we may be unable to enter into any additional in-licensing agreements because suitable product candidates that are within our expertise may not be available to us on terms that are acceptable to us or because competitors with greater resources seek to in-license the same product candidates. product candidates that we would like to develop may not be available to us because they are controlled by competitors who are unwilling to license the rights to the drug compound or candidate to us. we may also need to license drug delivery or other technology in order to continue to develop our drug candidate pipeline. if we are unable to enter into additional agreements to license drug candidates, drug delivery technology or other technology or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our research and development efforts could be adversely affected. we have limited expertise with and capacity to conduct preclinical testing and clinical trials, and our resulting dependence on other parties could result in delays in and additional costs for our drug development efforts. we have only limited experience with clinical trials, formulation, manufacturing and commercialization of drug products. we also have limited internal resources and capacity to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials. as a result, we intend to hire clinical research organizations ( cros ) to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials for drug candidates. if the cros that we hire to perform our preclinical testing and clinical trials or our collaborators or licensees do not meet deadlines, do not follow proper procedures, or a conflict arises between us and our cros, our preclinical testing and clinical trials may take longer than expected, may be delayed or may be terminated. if we were forced to find a replacement entity to perform any of our preclinical testing or clinical trials, we may not be able to find a suitable entity on favorable terms, or at all. even if we were able to find another company to perform a preclinical test or clinical trial, the delay in the test or trial may result in significant expenditures. events such as these may result in delays in our obtaining regulatory approval for our drug candidates or our ability to commercialize our products and could result in increased expenditures that would adversely affect our operating results. in addition, for some of our drug candidates, we plan to contract with collaborators or licensees to advance those candidates through later-stage, more expensive clinical trials, rather than invest our own resources to perform these clinical trials. depending on the terms of our agreements with these collaborators or licensees, we may not have any control over the conduct of these clinical trials, and in any event we would be subject to the risks associated with depending on collaborators or licensees to develop these drug candidates. if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval to develop and market products in the united states and foreign jurisdictions, we will not be permitted to manufacture or commercialize products resulting from our research. in order to manufacture and commercialize drug products in the united states, our drug candidates will have to obtain regulatory approval from the food and drug administration, or the fda. satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years. to obtain regulatory approval, we must first show that our drug products are safe and effective for target indications through preclinical testing (animal testing) and clinical trials (human testing). preclinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes, and we do not know whether the fda will allow us to undertake clinical trials of any potential drug products in addition to our compounds currently in clinical trials. 18 completion of clinical trials may take several years and failure may occur at any stage of testing. the length of time required varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product candidate. interim results of a preclinical test or clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results, and acceptable results in early clinical trials may not be repeated in later clinical trials. for example, a drug candidate that is successful at the preclinical level may cause harmful or dangerous side effects when tested at the clinical level. our rate of commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including: the high degree of risk associated with drug development; our inability to formulate or manufacture sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials; variability in the number and types of patients available for each study; difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, resulting in incomplete data; unforeseen safety issues or side effects; poor or unanticipated effectiveness of products during the clinical trials; or government or regulatory delays. data obtained from the clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretation, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. a number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving promising results in earlier clinical trials. in addition, regulatory authorities may refuse or delay approval as a result of other factors, such as changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development and regulatory agency review. in september 2005, the fda requested that we conduct another phase iib clinical trial for dfc to support the efficacy and safety demonstrated in the original phase iib clinical trial. due, in part, to the early stage of our drug candidate research and development process, we cannot predict whether regulatory approval will be obtained for any product we develop. at the present time, we have three drug candidates, dfc, our lead ccr2 antagonist licensed to pfizer, and our lead sheddase inhibitor in phase iib, phase iia, and phase ib/iia clinical trials, respectively. our other drug candidates are still undergoing preclinical testing. compounds developed by us, alone or with other parties, may not prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials and may not meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements needed to receive marketing approval. if regulatory approval of a product is granted, this approval will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which the product is demonstrated through clinical trials to be safe and effective. failure to obtain regulatory approval would delay or prevent us from commercializing products. outside the united states, our ability to market a product is contingent upon receiving a marketing authorization from the appropriate regulatory authorities. this foreign regulatory approval process typically includes all of the risks associated with the fda approval process described above and may also include additional risks. our reliance on other parties to manufacture our drug candidates could result in a short supply of the drugs, delays in development, increased costs and withdrawal or denial of the regulatory authority approval. the fda requires that drug products be manufactured according to its current good manufacturing practices, or cgmp, regulations and a limited number of manufacturers comply with these requirements. if the other parties that we choose to manufacture our drug products are not compliant with cgmp, the fda may not approve our application to manufacture our drug products. we may not be able to arrange for our products to be manufactured by one of these parties on reasonable terms, if at all. failure to comply with 19 cgmp in the manufacture of our products could result in the fda withdrawing or denying regulatory approval of our drug product or other enforcement actions. we may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of our new drug products if the manufacturers do not have the capacity or capability to manufacture our products according to our schedule and specifications. also, raw materials that may be required to manufacture any products we develop may only be available from a limited number of suppliers. if we have promised delivery of a new product and are unable to meet the delivery requirement due to manufacturing difficulties, our development programs would be delayed, and we may have to expend additional sums in order to ensure that manufacturing capacity is available when we need it even if we do not use all of the manufacturing capacity. this expense would adversely affect our operating results. manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, especially in scaling up initial production. these problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control and assurance and shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. the manufacturers we choose may not perform as agreed or may terminate their agreements with us. foreign manufacturing approval processes typically include all of the risks associated with the fda approval process for manufacturing and may also include additional risks. we may incur additional expense in order to market our drug products. we do not have experience marketing drug products. if the fda approves one of our drug products to go to market, we would have to employ additional personnel or engage another party to market our drug products, which would be an additional expense to us. we might not be able to commercialize our drug candidates successfully, and we may spend significant time and money attempting to do so. dfc, our lead ccr2 antagonist licensed to pfizer, and our lead sheddase inhibitor are our only three drug candidates in clinical trials. we, or our collaborators or licensees, may decide to discontinue development of any or all of our drug candidates at any time for commercial, scientific or other reasons. if a product is developed, but is not marketed, we may have spent significant amounts of time and money on it, which would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. even if dfc, or another drug candidate that we develop, receives regulatory approval, we may decide not to commercialize it if we determine that commercialization of that product would require more money and time than we are willing to invest. for example, drugs that receive approval are subject to post-regulatory surveillance and may have to be withdrawn from the market if previously unknown side effects occur. at this point, the regulatory agencies may require additional clinical trials or testing. once a drug is marketed, if it causes side effects, the drug product may be recalled or may be subject to reformulation, additional studies, changes in labeling, warnings to the public and negative publicity. as a result, we may not continue to commercialize a product even though it has obtained regulatory approval. further, we may decide not to continue to commercialize a product if the market does not accept the product because it is too expensive and third parties such as insurance companies or medicare have not approved it for substantial reimbursement. actions of governmental authorities and other groups could result in lower prices for certain drugs, including drugs that address hiv infection. in addition, we may decide not to continue to commercialize a product if another product comes on the market that is as effective but has fewer side effects. there is also a risk that competitors may develop similar or superior products or have proprietary rights that preclude us from ultimately marketing our products. 20 our ability to generate revenues will be diminished if we are unable to obtain acceptable prices or an adequate level of reimbursement from payors of healthcare costs. the continuing efforts of government and insurance companies, health maintenance organizations, or hmos, and other payors of healthcare costs to contain or reduce costs of health care may affect our future revenues and profitability, and the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborative or license partners and the availability of capital. for example, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. in the united states, given recent federal and state government initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of health care, the u.s. congress and state legislatures will likely continue to focus on health care reform, the cost of prescription pharmaceuticals and on the reform of the medicare and medicaid systems. while we cannot predict whether any such legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, the announcement or adoption of these proposals could reduce the price that we or any of our collaborators or licensees receive for any products in the future. our ability to commercialize our products successfully will depend in part on the extent to which appropriate reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatment are obtained by governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as hmos. third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. also, the trend toward managed health care in the united states and the concurrent growth of organizations such as hmos, which could control or significantly influence the purchase of health care services and products, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may all result in lower prices for or rejection of our products. the cost containment measures that health care payors and providers are instituting and the effect of any health care reform could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. as our drug discovery and development operations are conducted at our headquarters in wilmington, delaware, the loss of access to this facility would negatively impact our business. our facility in wilmington, delaware is our headquarters and is also where we conduct all of our drug discovery operations and research and development activities. our lease contains provisions that provide for its early termination upon the occurrence of certain events of default or upon a change of control. further, our headquarters facility is located in a large research and development complex that may be temporarily or permanently shutdown if certain environmental or other hazardous conditions were to occur within the complex. in addition, actions of activists opposed to aspects of pharmaceutical research may disrupt our experiments or our ability to access or use our facilities. the loss of access to or use of our wilmington, delaware, facility, either on a temporary or permanent basis, or early termination of our lease would result in an interruption of our business and, consequently, would adversely affect the advancement of our drug discovery and development programs and our overall business. we depend on key employees in a competitive market for skilled personnel, and the loss of the services of any of our key employees would affect our ability to expand our drug discovery and development programs and achieve our objectives. we are highly dependent on the principal members of our management, operations and scientific staff. we experience intense competition for qualified personnel. our future success also depends in part on the continued service of our executive management team, key scientific and management personnel and our ability to recruit, train and retain essential scientific personnel for our drug discovery and development programs, including those who will be responsible for overseeing our preclinical testing and clinical trials as well as for the establishment of collaborations with other companies. if we lose the services of any of these people, our research and product development goals, including the identification and establishment of key 21 collaborations, operations and marketing efforts could be delayed or curtailed. we do not maintain key person insurance on any of our employees. we may encounter difficulties in integrating companies we acquire, which may harm our operations and financial results. as part of our business strategy, we have in the past and may in the future acquire assets, technologies, compounds and businesses. our past acquisitions, such as the acquisition of maxia have involved, and our future acquisitions may involve, risks such as the following: we may be exposed to unknown liabilities of acquired companies; our acquisition and integration costs may be higher than we anticipated and may cause our quarterly and annual operating results to fluctuate; we may experience difficulty and expense in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses, disrupting our business and diverting our management time and attention; we may be unable to integrate or complete the development and application of acquired technology, compounds or drug candidates; we may experience difficulties in establishing and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; our relationships with key customers, suppliers, or collaborative or license partners of acquired businesses may be impaired, due to changes in management and ownership of the acquired businesses; we may be unable to retain key employees of the acquired businesses; we may incur amortization or impairment expenses if an acquisition results in significant goodwill or other intangible assets; or our stockholders may be diluted if we pay for the acquisition with equity securities. in addition, if we acquire additional businesses that are not located near our new headquarters, we may experience more difficulty integrating and managing the acquired businesses operations. if product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we could face substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products and our results of operations could be harmed. the clinical trials and marketing of medical products that are intended for human use entails an inherent risk of product liability. if any product that we or any of our collaborators or licensees develops causes or is alleged to cause injury or is found to be unsuitable during clinical trials, manufacturing or sale, we may be held liable. if we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities, including substantial damages to be paid to the plaintiffs and legal costs, or we may be required to limit commercialization of our products. although we currently carry a product liability insurance policy that provides coverage for liabilities arising from our clinical trials, it may not fully cover our potential liabilities. in addition, we may determine that we should increase our coverage upon the undertaking of new clinical trials, and this insurance may be prohibitively expensive to us or our collaborators or licensees and may not fully cover our potential liabilities. our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of pharmaceutical products we develop, alone or with our collaborators. additionally, any product liability lawsuit could cause injury to our reputation, recall of products, participants to withdraw from clinical trials, and potential collaborators or licensees to seek other partners, any of which could impact our results of operations. 22 because our activities involve the use of hazardous materials, we may be subject to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials that could be time consuming and costly. we are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the use, handling, storage and disposal of regulated substances and the health and safety of our employees. our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous and radioactive materials and biological waste resulting in the production of hazardous waste products. we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. if any injury or contamination results from our use or the use by our collaborators or licensees of these materials, we may be sued and our liability may exceed our insurance coverage and our total assets. further, we may be required to indemnify our collaborators or licensees against all damages and other liabilities arising out of our development activities or products produced in connection with these collaborations or licenses. compliance with the applicable environmental and workplace laws and regulations is expensive. future changes to environmental, health, workplace and safety laws could cause us to incur additional expense or may restrict our operations or impair our research, development and production efforts. 23 risks relating to our financial results we expect to incur losses in the future and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. we had net losses from inception in 1991 through 1996 and in 1999 through 2005. because of those losses, we had an accumulated deficit of $839.3 million as of december 31, 2005. we will continue to spend significant amounts on our efforts to discover and develop drugs. as a result, we expect to continue to incur losses in 2006 and in future periods as well. we anticipate that our drug discovery and development efforts will increase as we focus on the studies, including preclinical tests and clinical trials prior to seeking regulatory approval, that are required before we can sell a drug product. the development of drug products will require us to spend significant funds on research, development, testing, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing and marketing. to date, we do not have any drug products that have generated revenues and we cannot assure you that we will generate revenues from the drug candidates that we license or develop for several years, if ever. we cannot be certain whether or when we will achieve profitability because of the significant uncertainties relating to our ability to generate commercially successful drug products. even if we were successful in obtaining regulatory approvals for manufacturing and commercializing dfc, our leading drug candidate, or another drug, we expect that we will continue to incur losses if our drug products do not generate significant revenues. if we achieve profitability we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability. we will need additional capital in the future. the capital markets may not permit us to raise additional capital at the time that we require it, which could result in limitations on our research and development or commercialization efforts or the loss of certain of our rights in our technologies or drug candidates. our future funding requirements will depend on many factors and we anticipate that we will need to raise additional capital to fund our business plan and research and development efforts on a going-forward basis. additional factors that may affect our future funding requirements include: any changes in the breadth of our research and development programs; the results of research and development, preclinical testing and clinical trials conducted by us or our future collaborative partners or licensees, if any; the acquisition or licensing of businesses, technologies or compounds, if any; our ability to maintain and establish new corporate relationships and research collaborations; competing technological and market developments; the amount of revenues generated from our business activities, if any; the time and costs involved in filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent and intellectual property claims; the receipt of contingent licensing or milestone fees or royalties on product sales from our current or future collaborative and license arrangements, if established; and the timing of regulatory approvals, if any. if we require additional capital at a time when investment in companies such as ours, or in the marketplace generally, is limited due to the then prevailing market or other conditions, we may have to scale back our operations, eliminate one or more of our research or development programs, or attempt to obtain funds by entering into an agreement with a collaborative partner that would result in terms that are not favorable to us or relinquishing our rights in certain of our proprietary technologies or drug candidates. 24 if we are unable to raise funds at the time that we desire or at any time thereafter on acceptable terms, we may not be able to continue to develop our potential drug products. the sale of equity or additional convertible debt securities in the future would be dilutive to our stockholders, and debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that could restrict our operations or our ability to incur further indebtedness. future milestone and royalty payments from our gene and genomics-related intellectual property may not contribute significantly to revenues for several years, and may never result in revenues. part of our strategy was to license to our database customers and to other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies our know-how and patent rights associated with the information we have generated in the creation of our proprietary databases, for use in the discovery and development of potential pharmaceutical, diagnostic or other products. any potential product that is the subject of such a license will require several years of further development, clinical trials and regulatory approval before commercialization, all of which is beyond our control, and possibly beyond the control of our licensee. these licensees may not develop the potential product if they do not devote the necessary resources or decide that they do not want to expend the resources to do the clinical trials necessary to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals. therefore, milestone or royalty payments from these licenses may not contribute to our revenues for several years, if at all. we have decided to discontinue some of our gene and genomics-related patent prosecution and maintenance, and may in the future decide to discontinue additional gene and genomics-related patent prosecution and maintenance, which could limit our ability to receive license-based revenues from our gene and genomics-related patent portfolio. our investments may decline in value and our losses may increase. we have made and may in the future make investments in entities that complement our business. these investments may: often be made in securities lacking a public trading market or subject to trading restrictions, either of which increases our risk and reduces the liquidity of our investment; require us to record losses and expenses related to our ownership interest; require us to record acquisition-related charges, such as in-process research and development; require us to record charges related to the impairment in the value of the securities underlying our investment; and require us to invest greater amounts than anticipated or to devote substantial management time to the management of research and development relationships or other relationships. the market values of many of these investments can fluctuate significantly. we evaluate our long-term investments for impairment of their value on a quarterly basis. the value of our investments in private companies can fluctuate significantly. in past periods, market conditions have caused us to write-down the value of our private company investments, sometimes substantially, and market conditions may cause us to write down additional amounts. in addition, we have in the past written down the value of our debt investments in companies experiencing financial difficulties. impairment could result in future charges to our earnings. decreases in the value of our strategic investments may cause our losses to increase. we have a large amount of debt and our debt service obligations may prevent us from taking actions that we would otherwise consider to be in our best interests. as of december 31, 2005, we had total consolidated debt of $341.9 million and stockholders deficit of $19.4 million. the indentures pursuant to which our outstanding convertible subordinated notes were 25 issued do not limit the issuance of additional indebtedness. our substantial leverage could have significant negative consequences for our future operations, including: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital and research and development expenditures, and general corporate purposes; requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our expected cash flow or our existing cash to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our cash available for other purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures and research and development expenditures; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; or placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. in the past five years, we have had negative cash flow from operations. we likely will not generate sufficient cash flow from our operations in the future to enable us to meet our anticipated fixed charges, including our debt service requirements with respect to our outstanding convertible subordinated notes. as of december 31, 2005, $91.6 million aggregate principal amount of our 5.5% convertible subordinated notes due 2007 were outstanding. our annual interest payments for the 5.5% notes through 2006, assuming none of these notes are converted, redeemed, repurchased or exchanged, are $5.0 million, and an additional $2.5 million in interest is payable in 2007. as of december 31, 2005, $250 million aggregate principal amount of our 3 1 2 % convertible subordinated notes due 2011 were outstanding. our annual interest payments for the 3 1 2 % notes through 2010, assuming none of these notes are converted, redeemed, repurchased or exchanged, are $8.8 million, and an additional $4.4 million in interest is payable in 2011. we intend to fulfill our debt service obligations from our existing cash and marketable securities. if we are unable to generate cash from our operations or raise additional cash through financings sufficient to meet these obligations, we will need to use existing cash or liquidate marketable securities in order to fund these obligations, which may delay or curtail our research, development and commercialization programs. risks relating to intellectual property and legal matters we are involved in patent litigation, which, if not resolved favorably, could require us to pay damages. in october 2001, invitrogen corporation filed an action against us in federal district court for the district of delaware, alleging infringement of three patents. the complaint seeks unspecified money damages and injunctive relief. in november 2001, we filed our answer to invitrogen patent infringement claims, and asserted seven counterclaims against invitrogen, seeking declaratory relief with respect to the patents at issue, implied license, estoppel, laches and patent misuse. we are also seeking our fees, costs and expenses. invitrogen filed its answer to our counterclaims in january 2002. in february 2003, we added a counterclaim for unfair business practices. our defenses against the suit brought by invitrogen may be unsuccessful. at this time, we cannot reasonably estimate the possible range of any loss or damages resulting from this suit due to uncertainty regarding the ultimate outcome. if the case goes forward, we expect that the invitrogen litigation will result in future legal and other costs to us, regardless of the outcome, which could be substantial. 26 if we are subject to additional arbitration, litigation and infringement claims, they could be costly and disrupt our drug discovery and development efforts. the technology that we use to make and develop our drug products, the technology that we incorporate in our products, and the products we are developing may be subject to claims that they infringe the patents or proprietary rights of others. the success of our drug discovery and development efforts will also depend on our ability to develop new compounds, drugs and technologies without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. we are aware of patents and patent applications filed in certain countries claiming certain intellectual property relating to ccr5. while the validity of issued patents, patentability of pending patent applications and applicability of any of them to our programs are uncertain, if any of these patents are asserted against us, our ability to commercialize our products could be harmed. from time to time we may receive notices from third parties alleging patent, trademark, or copyright infringement, claims regarding trade secrets or other contract claims. receipt of these notices could result in significant costs as a result of the diversion of the attention of management from our drug discovery and development efforts. except for invitrogen, no third party has a current filed patent lawsuit or arbitration against us. if a successful claim were brought against us, we would have to attempt to license the technology from the claimant or to spend time and money to design around the technology. any such license of the technology may not be available at reasonable terms, or at all. we may, however, be involved in future lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights or contract violations. in addition, litigation or other legal proceedings may be necessary to: assert claims of infringement; enforce our patents or trademarks; protect our trade secrets or know-how; or determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. we may be unsuccessful in defending or pursuing these lawsuits or claims. regardless of the outcome, litigation can be very costly and can divert management efforts. an adverse determination may subject us to significant liabilities or require us or our collaborators or licensees to seek licenses to other parties patents or proprietary rights. we or our collaborators or licensees may also be restricted or prevented from manufacturing or selling a drug product that we develop. further, we or our future collaborators or licensees may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. we may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our proprietary information, which may result in its unauthorized use, a loss of revenue under a collaboration agreement or loss of sales to generic versions of our products or otherwise reduce our ability to compete. our business and competitive position depend in part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology, including any drug products that we create. despite our efforts to protect this information, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. for example, one of our collaborators may disclose proprietary information pertaining to our drug discovery efforts. any patents issued in connection with our drug discovery efforts may not be broad enough to protect all of the potential uses of the product. additionally, when we do not control the prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of certain important intellectual property, such as a drug compound in-licensed to us, the protection of the intellectual property rights may not be in our hands. in the case of dfc, we do not control the intellectual property rights in-licensed to us with respect to the compound and therefore may be unable to protect 27 those rights. if the entity that controls the intellectual property rights related to dfc does not adequately protect those rights, our rights may be impaired, which may impact our ability to develop, market and commercialize dfc. for dfc, a composition of matter patent is not available because the compound is in the public domain. therefore, only patents covering the use and the method of making of the product are available. in general, patents covering a new use for a known compound and methods of making a known compound can be more difficult to enforce against infringers. our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate, and our competitors may: independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, products and techniques; otherwise gain access to our proprietary information; or design around patents issued to us or our other intellectual property. we pursue a policy of having our employees, consultants and advisors execute proprietary information and invention agreements when they begin working for us. however, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. if we fail to maintain trade secret and patent protection, our potential, future revenues may be decreased. if the effective term of our patents is decreased due to changes in the united states patent laws or if we need to refile some of our patent applications, the value of our patent portfolio and the revenues we derive from it may be decreased. the value of our patents depends in part on their duration. a shorter period of patent protection could lessen the value of our rights under any patents that we obtain and may decrease the revenues we derive from our patents. the united states patent laws were amended in 1995 to change the term of patent protection from 17 years from patent issuance to 20 years from the earliest effective filing date of the application. because the time from filing to issuance of biotechnology applications may be more than three years depending on the subject matter, a 20-year patent term from the filing date may result in substantially shorter patent protection. also, we may need to refile some of our applications filed before 1995 that claim large numbers of genes or other additional subject matter and, in these situations, the patent term will be measured from the date of the earliest priority application. this would shorten our period of patent exclusivity and may decrease the revenues that we might derive from the patents. international patent protection is particularly uncertain and costly, and if we are involved in opposition proceedings in foreign countries, we may have to expend substantial sums and management resources. biotechnology and pharmaceutical patent law outside the united states is even more uncertain and costly than in the united states and is currently undergoing review and revision in many countries. further, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as united states laws. for example, certain countries do not grant patent claims that are directed to the treatment of humans. we may participate in opposition proceedings to determine the validity of our foreign patents or our competitors foreign patents, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts. 28 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our investments in marketable securities, which are composed primarily of investment-grade corporate bonds, u.s. government agency debt securities and mortgage and asset-backed securities, are subject to default, changes in credit rating and changes in market value. these investments are also subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. our marketable securities also include our investment in the common stock of genomic health, inc. at december 31, 2005, the fair market value of our investment in genomic health, inc. was $14.1 million. this value could decrease based on the volatility of the equity markets and uncertainty of the biotechnology industry, as well as due to specific factors relating to that company operating results and business. as of december 31, 2005, cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $345.0 million. due to the nature of these investments, if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as of december 31, 2005, the decline in fair value would not be material. 47risk factors 16 risk factors risks relating to our business we are at the early stage of our drug discovery and development efforts and we may be unsuccessful in our efforts. we are in the early stage of building our drug discovery and development operations. our ability to discover, develop, and commercialize pharmaceutical products will depend on our ability to: hire and retain key scientific employees; identify high quality therapeutic targets; identify potential drug candidates; develop products internally or license drug candidates from others; identify and enroll suitable human subjects, either in the united states or abroad, for our clinical trials; complete laboratory testing and clinical trials on humans; obtain and maintain necessary intellectual property rights to our products; obtain and maintain necessary regulatory approvals for our products, both in the united states and abroad; enter into arrangements with third parties to provide services or to manufacture our products on our behalf, or develop efficient production facilities meeting all regulatory requirements; deploy sales and marketing resources effectively or enter into arrangements with third parties to provide these functions; lease facilities at reasonable rates to support our growth; and enter into arrangements with third parties to license and commercialize our products. of the compounds that we identify as potential drug products or that we in-license from other companies, only a few, if any, are likely to lead to successful drug development programs. significant research and development efforts will be necessary. for example, in april 2006, we announced the discontinuation of development of dfc, which was at the time our most advanced drug candidate and was in phase iib clinical trials. prior to discontinuation of the dfc program, we expended a significant amount of effort and money on that program. we have limited experience with the activities listed above and may not be successful in discovering, developing, or commercializing drug products. if we choose to outsource some of these activities, we may be unable to enter into outsourcing or licensing agreements on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. in addition, if we elect to manufacture our products in our own manufacturing facilities, we will require substantial additional capital resources to lease or build and maintain those facilities, including attracting and retaining qualified personnel to lease or build and operate our facilities. our efforts to discover and develop potential drug candidates may not lead to the discovery, development, commercialization or marketing of drug products. we are currently engaged in a number of different approaches to discover and develop novel drug candidates. our drug candidates in clinical trials are in early phase i and phase iia trials for indications in hiv, diabetes and oncology. our other earlier stage internal drug discovery programs are focused on compounds with potential applications in myeloproliferative disorders, oncology and inflammation. we 16 have also licensed to pfizer our lead ccr2 antagonist, which was in phase iia clinical trials at the time of licensing to pfizer. we have no control over the further clinical development of any compounds we licensed to pfizer. discovery and development of potential drug candidates are expensive and time-consuming, and we do not know if our efforts will lead to discovery of any drug candidates that can be successfully developed and marketed. if our efforts do not lead to the discovery of a suitable drug candidate, we may be unable to grow our clinical pipeline or we may be unable to enter into agreements with collaborators who are willing to develop our drug candidates. the success of our drug discovery and development efforts may depend on our ability to find suitable collaborators to fully exploit our capabilities. if we are unable to establish collaborations or if these future collaborations are unsuccessful, our research and development efforts may be unsuccessful, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. an important element of our business strategy will be to enter into collaborative or license arrangements with other parties, such as our collaboration with pfizer, under which we license our drug candidates to those parties for development and commercialization. we expect that while we plan to conduct initial clinical trials on our drug candidates, we may need to seek collaborators for our drug candidates such as our chemokine receptor antagonists because of the expense, effort and expertise required to continue additional clinical trials and further develop those drug candidates. we may also seek collaborators for our drug candidates that target large primary care indications such as diabetes because of the expense involved in further clinical development of these indications and in establishing a sales and marketing organization to address these indications. because collaboration arrangements are complex to negotiate, we may not be successful in our attempts to establish these arrangements. also, we may not have drug compounds that are desirable to other parties, or we may be unwilling to license a drug compound because the party interested in it is a competitor. the terms of any such arrangements that we establish may not be favorable to us. alternatively, potential collaborators may decide against entering into an agreement with us because of our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position or for scientific, commercial or other reasons. if we are not able to establish collaborative agreements, we may not be able to develop and commercialize a drug product, which would adversely affect our business and our revenues. in order for any of these collaboration or license arrangements to be successful, we must first identify potential collaborators or licensees whose capabilities complement and integrate well with ours. we may rely on these arrangements for not only financial resources, but also for expertise or economies of scale that we expect to need in the future relating to clinical trials, manufacturing, sales and marketing, and for licenses to technology rights. however, it is likely that we will not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators or licensees devote to our programs or potential products. if our collaborators or licensees prove difficult to work with, are less skilled than we originally expected or do not devote adequate resources to the program, the relationship will not be successful. if a business combination involving a collaborator or licensees and a third party were to occur, the effect could be to diminish, terminate or cause delays in development of a potential product. we face significant competition for our drug discovery and development efforts, and if we do not compete effectively, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated. the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. our drug discovery and development efforts may target diseases and conditions that are already subject to existing therapies or that are being developed by our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, more experience in completing preclinical testing and clinical trials, and formulation, marketing and manufacturing capabilities. as a result of these resources, our competitors may develop drug products that render our products obsolete or noncompetitive by developing more effective drugs or by developing their 17 products more efficiently. our ability to develop competitive products would be limited if our competitors succeeded in obtaining regulatory approvals for drug candidates more rapidly than we were able to or in obtaining patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limited our drug development efforts. any drugs resulting from our research and development efforts, or from our joint efforts with collaborators or licensees, might not be able to compete successfully with our competitors existing and future products, or obtain regulatory approval in the united states or elsewhere. we depend on our collaboration with pfizer for the development and commercialization of ccr2 antagonist compounds. under our collaborative research and license agreement with pfizer, pfizer gained worldwide development and commercialization rights to our portfolio of ccr2 antagonist compounds. pfizer rights extend to the full scope of potential indications, with the exception of multiple sclerosis and autoimmune nephritides. although pfizer is required to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize ccr2 antagonists for the indications for which they are responsible, we cannot control the amount and timing of resources pfizer may devote to the development of ccr2 antagonists. any failure of pfizer to perform its obligations under our agreement could negatively impact the development of ccr2 antagonists, lead to our loss of potential revenues from product sales and milestones and delay our achievement, if any, of profitability. pfizer has certain rights to terminate the license agreement, including the right to terminate upon 90 days notice for any reason. pfizer also has the right to terminate its rights and obligations with respect to certain indications. if pfizer terminates the license agreement or its rights with respect to certain indications, we may not be able to find a new collaborator to replace pfizer, and our business could be adversely affected. if conflicts arise between our collaborators, including pfizer, licensees, or advisors and us, our collaborators, licensees, or advisors may act in their self-interest, which may adversely affect our business. if conflicts arise between us and our collaborators or licensees, including pfizer, or our scientific advisors, the other party may act in its self-interest and not in the interest of our stockholders. conflicts may arise with our collaborators or licensees if they pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products either on their own or in collaboration with others as a means for developing treatments for the diseases that we have targeted. competing products, either developed by these future collaborators or licensees or to which these future collaborators or licensees have rights, may result in their withdrawal of support for our product candidates. additionally, conflicts may arise if there is a dispute about the achievement and payment of a milestone amount or the ownership of intellectual property that is developed during the course of the relationship. similarly, the parties to a collaboration or license agreement may disagree as to which party owns newly developed products. should an agreement be terminated as a result of a dispute and before we have realized the benefits of the collaboration or license, our reputation could be harmed and we may not obtain revenues that we anticipated receiving. if we fail to enter into additional licensing agreements or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our business and operations might be adversely affected. in addition to establishing collaborative or license arrangements under which other parties license our drug candidates for development and commercialization, we intend to continue to explore opportunities to develop our clinical pipeline by in-licensing drug compounds that fit within our expertise and research and development capabilities. we may be unable to enter into any additional in-licensing agreements because 18 suitable product candidates that are within our expertise may not be available to us on terms that are acceptable to us or because competitors with greater resources seek to in-license the same product candidates. product candidates that we would like to develop may not be available to us because they are controlled by competitors who are unwilling to license the rights to the drug compound or candidate to us. in addition, we may enter into license agreements that are unsuccessful and our business and operations might be adversely affected by the termination of a drug candidate and termination and winding down of the related license agreement. for example, in april 2006, we announced the discontinuation of development of dfc and we gave notice of termination of our collaborative license agreement with pharmasset, inc., which licensed dfc to us. dfc was at the time our most advanced drug candidate. we may also need to license drug delivery or other technology in order to continue to develop our drug candidate pipeline. if we are unable to enter into additional agreements to license drug candidates, drug delivery technology or other technology or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our research and development efforts could be adversely affected. we have limited expertise with and capacity to conduct preclinical testing and clinical trials, and our resulting dependence on other parties could result in delays in and additional costs for our drug development efforts. we have only limited experience with clinical trials, formulation, manufacturing and commercialization of drug products. we also have limited internal resources and capacity to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials. as a result, we intend to hire clinical research organizations, or cros, to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials for drug candidates. if the cros that we hire to perform our preclinical testing and clinical trials or our collaborators or licensees do not meet deadlines, do not follow proper procedures, or a conflict arises between us and our cros, our preclinical testing and clinical trials may take longer than expected, may be delayed or may be terminated. if we were forced to find a replacement entity to perform any of our preclinical testing or clinical trials, we may not be able to find a suitable entity on favorable terms, or at all. even if we were able to find another company to perform a preclinical test or clinical trial, the delay in the test or trial may result in significant expenditures. events such as these may result in delays in our obtaining regulatory approval for our drug candidates or our ability to commercialize our products and could result in increased expenditures that would adversely affect our operating results. in addition, for some of our drug candidates, we plan to contract with collaborators or licensees to advance those candidates through later-stage, more expensive clinical trials, rather than invest our own resources to perform these clinical trials. depending on the terms of our agreements with these collaborators or licensees, we may not have any control over the conduct of these clinical trials, and in any event we would be subject to the risks associated with depending on collaborators or licensees to develop these drug candidates. if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval to develop and market products in the united states and foreign jurisdictions, we will not be permitted to manufacture or commercialize products resulting from our research. in order to manufacture and commercialize drug products in the united states, our drug candidates will have to obtain regulatory approval from the food and drug administration, or the fda. satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years. to obtain regulatory approval, we must first show that our drug products are safe and effective for target indications through preclinical testing (animal testing) and clinical trials (human testing). preclinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes, and we do not know whether the fda will allow us to undertake clinical trials of any potential drug products in addition to our compounds currently in clinical trials. 19 completion of clinical trials may take several years and failure may occur at any stage of testing. the length of time required varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the product candidate. interim results of a preclinical test or clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results, and acceptable results in early clinical trials may not be repeated in later clinical trials. for example, a drug candidate that is successful at the preclinical level may cause harmful or dangerous side effects when tested at the clinical level. our rate of commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed by many factors, including: the high degree of risk associated with drug development; our inability to formulate or manufacture sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials; variability in the number and types of patients available for each study; difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, resulting in incomplete data; unforeseen safety issues or side effects; poor or unanticipated effectiveness of drug candidates during the clinical trials; or government or regulatory delays. data obtained from the clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretation, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. a number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving promising results in earlier clinical trials. in addition, regulatory authorities may refuse or delay approval as a result of other factors, such as changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development and regulatory agency review. for example, the fda has in the past required and could in the future require that we conduct additional trials of any of our product candidates, which would result in delays. due, in part, to the early stage of our drug candidate research and development process, we cannot predict whether regulatory approval will be obtained for any product we develop. our drug candidates in clinical trials are in early stage phase i and phase iia trials. our other drug candidates are still undergoing preclinical testing. we have also licensed to pfizer our lead ccr2 antagonist; further clinical development of this compound, which was in phase iia clinical trials at the time of licensing, is under pfizer control. compounds developed by us, alone or with other parties, may not prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials and may not meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements needed to receive marketing approval. if regulatory approval of a product is granted, this approval will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which the product is demonstrated through clinical trials to be safe and effective. failure to obtain regulatory approval would delay or prevent us from commercializing products. outside the united states, our ability to market a product is contingent upon receiving a marketing authorization from the appropriate regulatory authorities. this foreign regulatory approval process typically includes all of the risks associated with the fda approval process described above and may also include additional risks. our reliance on other parties to manufacture our drug candidates could result in a short supply of the drugs, delays in development, increased costs and withdrawal or denial of the regulatory authority approval. the fda requires that drug products be manufactured according to its current good manufacturing practices, or cgmp, regulations and a limited number of manufacturers comply with these requirements. if the other parties that we choose to manufacture our drug products are not compliant with cgmp, the fda may not approve our application to manufacture our drug products. we may not be able to arrange for our products to be manufactured by one of these parties on reasonable terms, if at all. failure to comply with 20 cgmp in the manufacture of our products could result in the fda withdrawing or denying regulatory approval of our drug product or other enforcement actions. we may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of our new drug products if our designated manufacturers do not have the capacity or capability to manufacture our products according to our schedule and specifications. also, raw materials that may be required to manufacture any products we develop may only be available from a limited number of suppliers. if we have promised delivery of a new product and are unable to meet the delivery requirement due to manufacturing difficulties, our development programs would be delayed, and we may have to expend additional sums in order to ensure that manufacturing capacity is available when we need it even if we do not use all of the manufacturing capacity. this expense would adversely affect our operating results. manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, especially in scaling up initial production. these problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control and assurance and shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. we may not be able to adequately manage and oversee the manufacturers we choose, they may not perform as agreed or they may terminate their agreements with us. foreign manufacturing approval processes typically include all of the risks associated with the fda approval process for manufacturing and may also include additional risks. we may incur additional expense in order to market our drug products. we do not have experience marketing drug products. if the fda grants regulatory approval to one or more of our drug candidates, we would have to employ additional personnel or engage another party to market our drug products, which would be an additional expense to us. we might not be able to commercialize our drug candidates successfully, and we may spend significant time and money attempting to do so. we have a limited number of drug candidates in early stage phase i and phase iia clinical trials. we have also licensed to pfizer our lead ccr2 antagonist, which was in phase iia clinical trials at the time of licensing. we, or our collaborators or licensees, may decide to discontinue development of any or all of our drug candidates at any time for commercial, scientific or other reasons. we discontinued development of dfc in april 2006 for safety reasons. if a product is developed, but is not marketed, we may have spent significant amounts of time and money on it, which would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. even if a drug candidate that we develop receives regulatory approval, we may decide not to commercialize it if we determine that commercialization of that product would require more money and time than we are willing to invest. for example, drugs that receive approval are subject to post-regulatory surveillance and may have to be withdrawn from the market if previously unknown side effects occur. at this point, the regulatory agencies may require additional clinical trials or testing. once a drug is marketed, if it causes side effects, the drug product may be recalled or may be subject to reformulation, additional studies, changes in labeling, warnings to the public and negative publicity. as a result, we may not continue to commercialize a product even though it has obtained regulatory approval. further, we may decide not to continue to commercialize a product if the market does not accept the product because it is too expensive and third parties such as insurance companies or medicare have not approved it for substantial reimbursement. in addition, we may decide not to continue to commercialize a product if another product comes on the market that is as effective but has fewer side effects. there is also a risk that competitors may develop similar or superior products or have proprietary rights that preclude us from ultimately marketing our products. 21 our ability to generate revenues will be diminished if we are unable to obtain acceptable prices or an adequate level of reimbursement from payors of healthcare costs. the continuing efforts of government and insurance companies, health maintenance organizations, or hmos, and other payors of healthcare costs to contain or reduce costs of health care may affect our future revenues and profitability, and the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborative or license partners and the availability of capital. for example, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. in the united states, given recent federal and state government initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of health care, the u.s. congress and state legislatures will likely continue to focus on health care reform, the cost of prescription pharmaceuticals and on the reform of the medicare and medicaid systems. while we cannot predict whether any such legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, the announcement or adoption of these proposals could reduce the price that we or any of our collaborators or licensees receive for any products in the future. our ability to commercialize our products successfully will depend in part on the extent to which appropriate reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatment are obtained by governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as hmos. third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. also, the trend toward managed health care in the united states and the concurrent growth of organizations such as hmos, which could control or significantly influence the purchase of health care services and products, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may all result in lower prices for or rejection of our products. the cost containment measures that health care payors and providers are instituting and the effect of any health care reform could materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. as our drug discovery and development operations are conducted at our headquarters in wilmington, delaware, the loss of access to this facility would negatively impact our business. our facility in wilmington, delaware is our headquarters and is also where we conduct all of our drug discovery operations and research and development activities. our lease contains provisions that provide for its early termination upon the occurrence of certain events of default or upon a change of control. further, our headquarters facility is located in a large research and development complex that may be temporarily or permanently shutdown if certain environmental or other hazardous conditions were to occur within the complex. in addition, actions of activists opposed to aspects of pharmaceutical research may disrupt our experiments or our ability to access or use our facilities. the loss of access to or use of our wilmington, delaware, facility, either on a temporary or permanent basis, or early termination of our lease would result in an interruption of our business and, consequently, would adversely affect the advancement of our drug discovery and development programs and our overall business. we depend on key employees in a competitive market for skilled personnel, and the loss of the services of any of our key employees would affect our ability to expand our drug discovery and development programs and achieve our objectives. we are highly dependent on the principal members of our management, operations and scientific staff. we experience intense competition for qualified personnel. our future success also depends in part on the continued service of our executive management team, key scientific and management personnel and our ability to recruit, train and retain essential scientific personnel for our drug discovery and development programs, including those who will be responsible for overseeing our preclinical testing and clinical trials as well as for the establishment of collaborations with other companies. if we lose the services of any of these people, our research and product development goals, including the identification and establishment of key 22 collaborations, operations and marketing efforts could be delayed or curtailed. we do not maintain key person insurance on any of our employees. we may encounter difficulties in integrating companies we acquire, which may harm our operations and financial results. as part of our business strategy, we have in the past and may in the future acquire assets, technologies, compounds and businesses. our past acquisitions, such as the acquisition of maxia have involved, and our future acquisitions may involve, risks such as the following: we may be exposed to unknown liabilities of acquired companies; our acquisition and integration costs may be higher than we anticipated and may cause our quarterly and annual operating results to fluctuate; we may experience difficulty and expense in assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses, disrupting our business and diverting our management time and attention; we may be unable to integrate or complete the development and application of acquired technology, compounds or drug candidates; we may experience difficulties in establishing and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; our relationships with key customers, suppliers, or collaborative or license partners of acquired businesses may be impaired, due to changes in management and ownership of the acquired businesses; we may be unable to retain key employees of the acquired businesses; we may incur amortization or impairment expenses if an acquisition results in significant goodwill or other intangible assets; or our stockholders may be diluted if we pay for the acquisition with equity securities. in addition, if we acquire additional businesses that are not located near our new headquarters, we may experience more difficulty integrating and managing the acquired businesses operations. if product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we could face substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products and our results of operations could be harmed. the clinical trials and marketing of medical products that are intended for human use entails an inherent risk of product liability. if any product that we or any of our collaborators or licensees develops causes or is alleged to cause injury or is found to be unsuitable during clinical trials, manufacturing or sale, we may be held liable. if we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities, including substantial damages to be paid to the plaintiffs and legal costs, or we may be required to limit commercialization of our products. our product liability insurance policy that provides coverage for liabilities arising from our clinical trials may not fully cover our potential liabilities. in addition, we may determine that we should increase our coverage upon the undertaking of new clinical trials, and this insurance may be prohibitively expensive to us or our collaborators or licensees and may not fully cover our potential liabilities. our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of pharmaceutical products we develop, alone or with our collaborators. additionally, any product liability lawsuit could cause injury to our reputation, recall of products, participants to withdraw from clinical trials, and potential collaborators or licensees to seek other partners, any of which could impact our results of operations. 23 because our activities involve the use of hazardous materials, we may be subject to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials that could be time consuming and costly. we are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the use, handling, storage and disposal of regulated substances and the health and safety of our employees. our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous and radioactive materials and biological waste resulting in the production of hazardous waste products. we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. if any injury or contamination results from our use or the use by our collaborators or licensees of these materials, we may be sued and our liability may exceed our insurance coverage and our total assets. further, we may be required to indemnify our collaborators or licensees against all damages and other liabilities arising out of our development activities or products produced in connection with these collaborations or licenses. compliance with the applicable environmental and workplace laws and regulations is expensive. future changes to environmental, health, workplace and safety laws could cause us to incur additional expense or may restrict our operations or impair our research, development and production efforts. risks relating to our financial results we expect to incur losses in the future and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. we had net losses from inception in 1991 through 1996 and in 1999 through 2006. because of those losses, we had an accumulated deficit of $913.5 million as of december 31, 2006. we will continue to spend significant amounts on our efforts to discover and develop drugs. as a result, we expect to continue to incur losses in 2007 and in future periods as well. we anticipate that our drug discovery and development efforts will increase as we focus on the studies, including preclinical tests and clinical trials prior to seeking regulatory approval, that are required before we can sell a drug product. the development of drug products will require us to spend significant funds on research, development, testing, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing and marketing. to date, we do not have any drug products that have generated revenues and we cannot assure you that we will generate revenues from the drug candidates that we license or develop for several years, if ever. we cannot be certain whether or when we will achieve profitability because of the significant uncertainties relating to our ability to generate commercially successful drug products. even if we were successful in obtaining regulatory approvals for manufacturing and commercializing a drug candidate, we expect that we will continue to incur losses if our drug products do not generate significant revenues. if we achieve profitability we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability. we will need additional capital in the future. the capital markets may not permit us to raise additional capital at the time that we require it, which could result in limitations on our research and development or commercialization efforts or the loss of certain of our rights in our technologies or drug candidates. our future funding requirements will depend on many factors and we anticipate that we will need to raise additional capital to fund our business plan and research and development efforts on a going-forward basis. additional factors that may affect our future funding requirements include: any changes in the breadth of our research and development programs; the results of research and development, preclinical testing and clinical trials conducted by us or our future collaborative partners or licensees, if any; the acquisition or licensing of businesses, technologies or compounds, if any; 24 our ability to maintain and establish new corporate relationships and research collaborations; competing technological and market developments; the amount of revenues generated from our business activities, if any; the time and costs involved in filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent and intellectual property claims; the receipt of contingent licensing or milestone fees or royalties on product sales from our current or future collaborative and license arrangements, if established; and the timing of regulatory approvals, if any. if we require additional capital at a time when investment in companies such as ours, or in the marketplace generally, is limited due to the then prevailing market or other conditions, we may have to scale back our operations, eliminate one or more of our research or development programs, or attempt to obtain funds by entering into an agreement with a collaborative partner that would result in terms that are not favorable to us or relinquishing our rights in certain of our proprietary technologies or drug candidates. if we are unable to raise funds at the time that we desire or at any time thereafter on acceptable terms, we may not be able to continue to develop our potential drug products. the sale of equity or additional convertible debt securities in the future would be dilutive to our stockholders, and debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that could restrict our operations or our ability to incur further indebtedness. our current revenues are derived from collaborations and from licensing our intellectual property. if we are unable to achieve milestones, develop products or renew or enter into new collaborations, our revenues may decrease, and future milestone and royalty payments from our gene and genomics-related intellectual property may not contribute significantly to revenues for several years, and may never result in revenues. we derived substantially all of our revenues for the year ended december 31, 2006 from our collaborative research and license agreement with pfizer and from licensing our intellectual property to others. we may be unable to enter into additional collaborative agreements. revenues from research and development collaborations depend upon continuation of the collaborations, the achievement of milestones and royalties we earn from any future products developed from our research. if we are unable to successfully achieve milestones or our collaborators fail to develop successful products, we will not earn the revenues contemplated under our collaborative agreements. part of our prior strategy was to license to our database customers and to other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies our know-how and patent rights associated with the information we have generated in the creation of our proprietary databases, for use in the discovery and development of potential pharmaceutical, diagnostic or other products. any potential product that is the subject of such a license will require several years of further development, clinical trials and regulatory approval before commercialization, all of which is beyond our control, and possibly beyond the control of our licensee. these licensees may not develop the potential product if they do not devote the necessary resources or decide that they do not want to expend the resources to do the clinical trials necessary to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals. therefore, milestone or royalty payments from these licenses may not contribute to our revenues for several years, if at all. we have decided to discontinue some of our gene and genomics-related patent prosecution and maintenance, and may in the future decide to discontinue additional gene and genomics-related patent prosecution and maintenance, which could limit our ability to receive license-based revenues from our gene and genomics-related patent portfolio. 25 our investments may decline in value and our losses may increase. we have made and may in the future make investments in entities that complement our business. these investments may: often be made in securities lacking a public trading market or subject to trading restrictions, either of which increases our risk and reduces the liquidity of our investment; require us to record losses and expenses related to our ownership interest; require us to record acquisition-related charges, such as in-process research and development; require us to record charges related to the impairment in the value of the securities underlying our investment; and require us to invest greater amounts than anticipated or to devote substantial management time to the management of research and development relationships or other relationships. the market values of many of these investments can fluctuate significantly. we evaluate our long-term investments for impairment of their value on a quarterly basis. the value of our investments in private companies can fluctuate significantly. in past periods, market conditions have caused us to write-down the value of our private company investments, sometimes substantially, and market conditions may cause us to write down additional amounts. in addition, we have in the past written down the value of our debt investments in companies experiencing financial difficulties. we have a large amount of debt and our debt service obligations may prevent us from taking actions that we would otherwise consider to be in our best interests. as of december 31, 2006, the aggregate principal amount of total consolidated debt was $411.8 million and our stockholders deficit was $84.9 million. the indentures pursuant to which our outstanding convertible senior and subordinated notes were issued do not limit the issuance of additional indebtedness. our substantial leverage could have significant negative consequences for our future operations, including: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital and research and development expenditures, and general corporate purposes; requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our expected cash flow or our existing cash to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our cash available for other purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures and research and development expenditures; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; or placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. in the past five years, we have had negative cash flow from operations. we likely will not generate sufficient cash flow from our operations in the future to enable us to meet our anticipated fixed charges, including our debt service requirements with respect to our outstanding convertible senior notes and convertible subordinated notes. as of december 31, 2006, $151.8 million aggregate principal amount of our 3 % convertible senior notes due 2011 was outstanding. our annual interest payments, beginning in 2007, for the 3 % convertible senior notes through 2010, assuming none of these notes are converted, redeemed, repurchased or exchanged, are $5.3 million, and an additional $2.7 million in interest is payable in 2011. as of december 31, 2006, $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 3 % convertible 26 subordinated notes due 2011 was outstanding. our annual interest payments for the 3 % convertible subordinated notes through 2010, assuming none of these notes are converted, redeemed, repurchased or exchanged, are $8.8 million, and an additional $4.4 million in interest is payable in 2011. as of december 31, 2006, we also had outstanding the $10.0 million aggregate principal amount of the convertible subordinated note held by pfizer, which is due in 2013 but does not bear interest. if we are unable to generate cash from our operations or raise additional cash through financings sufficient to meet these obligations, we will need to use existing cash or liquidate marketable securities in order to fund these obligations, which may delay or curtail our research, development and commercialization programs. risks relating to intellectual property and legal matters if we are subject to arbitration, litigation and infringement claims, they could be costly and disrupt our drug discovery and development efforts. the technology that we use to make and develop our drug products, the technology that we incorporate in our products, and the products we are developing may be subject to claims that they infringe the patents or proprietary rights of others. the success of our drug discovery and development efforts will also depend on our ability to develop new compounds, drugs and technologies without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. we are aware of patents and patent applications filed in certain countries claiming certain intellectual property relating to certain drug discovery targets such as ccr5. while the validity of issued patents, patentability of pending patent applications and applicability of any of them to our programs are uncertain, if any of these patents are asserted against us, our ability to commercialize our products could be harmed. from time to time we may receive notices from third parties offering licenses to technology or alleging patent, trademark, or copyright infringement, claims regarding trade secrets or other contract claims. receipt of these notices could result in significant costs as a result of the diversion of the attention of management from our drug discovery and development efforts. no third party has a current filed patent lawsuit or arbitration against us. if a successful claim were brought against us, we would have to attempt to license the technology from the claimant or to spend time and money to design around the technology. any such license of the technology may not be available at reasonable terms, or at all. we may, however, be involved in future lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights or contract violations. in addition, litigation or other legal proceedings may be necessary to: assert claims of infringement; enforce our patents or trademarks; protect our trade secrets or know-how; or determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. we may be unsuccessful in defending or pursuing these lawsuits or claims. regardless of the outcome, litigation can be very costly and can divert management efforts. for example, we recently settled patent litigation with invitrogen corporation. we incurred significant expenses related to this litigation and, as part of the settlement, paid invitrogen $3.4 million. an adverse determination may subject us to significant liabilities or require us or our collaborators or licensees to seek licenses to other parties patents or proprietary rights. we or our collaborators or licensees may also be restricted or prevented from manufacturing or selling a drug product that we develop. further, we or our future collaborators or licensees may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. 27 we may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our proprietary information, which may result in its unauthorized use, a loss of revenue under a collaboration agreement or loss of sales to generic versions of our products or otherwise reduce our ability to compete. our business and competitive position depend in part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology, including any drug products that we create. despite our efforts to protect this information, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. for example, one of our collaborators may disclose proprietary information pertaining to our drug discovery efforts. any patents issued in connection with our drug discovery efforts may not be broad enough to protect all of the potential uses of the product. additionally, when we do not control the prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of certain important intellectual property, such as a drug compound in-licensed to us or subject to a collaboration with a third party, the protection of the intellectual property rights may not be in our hands. if we do not control the intellectual property rights in-licensed to us with respect to a compound and the entity that controls the intellectual property rights does not adequately protect those rights, our rights may be impaired, which may impact our ability to develop, market and commercialize the in-licensed compound. our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate, and our competitors may: independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, products and techniques; otherwise gain access to our proprietary information; or design around patents issued to us or our other intellectual property. we pursue a policy of having our employees, consultants and advisors execute proprietary information and invention agreements when they begin working for us. however, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. if we fail to maintain trade secret and patent protection, our potential, future revenues may be decreased. if the effective term of our patents is decreased due to changes in the united states patent laws or if we need to refile some of our patent applications, the value of our patent portfolio and the revenues we derive from it may be decreased. the value of our patents depends in part on their duration. a shorter period of patent protection could lessen the value of our rights under any patents that we obtain and may decrease the revenues we derive from our patents. the united states patent laws were amended in 1995 to change the term of patent protection from 17 years from patent issuance to 20 years from the earliest effective filing date of the application. because the time from filing to issuance of biotechnology applications may be more than three years depending on the subject matter, a 20-year patent term from the filing date may result in substantially shorter patent protection. also, we may need to refile some of our applications filed before 1995 that claim large numbers of genes or other additional subject matter and, in these situations, the patent term will be measured from the date of the earliest priority application. this would shorten our period of patent exclusivity and may decrease the revenues that we might derive from the patents. international patent protection is particularly uncertain and costly, and if we are involved in opposition proceedings in foreign countries, we may have to expend substantial sums and management resources. biotechnology and pharmaceutical patent law outside the united states is even more uncertain and costly than in the united states and is currently undergoing review and revision in many countries. further, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as united states laws. for example, certain countries do not grant patent claims that are directed to 28 the treatment of humans. we may participate in opposition proceedings to determine the validity of our foreign patents or our competitors foreign patents, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk our investments in marketable securities, which are composed primarily of investment-grade corporate bonds, u.s. government agency debt securities and mortgage and asset-backed securities, are subject to default, changes in credit rating and changes in market value. these investments are also subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. as of december 31, 2006, cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $329.8 million. due to the nature of these investments, if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as of december 31, 2006, the decline in fair value would not be material. 48quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to interest rate risk primarily through our investments in short-term marketable securities. our investment policy calls for investment in short term, low risk, investment-grade instruments. as of december 31, 2003, cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $293.8 million. due to the nature of these investments, if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as of december 31, 2003, the decline in fair value would not be material. we are exposed to valuation risks related to our portfolio of long-term investments. these investments are primarily in small capitalization stocks of privately-held companies in the pharmaceutical/biotechnology industry sector and are primarily in companies with which we have research and development, licensing or other collaborative agreements. as of december 31, 2003, long-term investments were $16.2 million. we are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of our foreign operations are translated into u.s. dollars in consolidation. as exchange rates vary, these results, when translated, may vary from expectations and adversely impact our financial position or results of operations. all of our revenues are denominated in u.s. dollars. we do not enter into forward exchange contracts as a hedge against foreign currency exchange risk on transactions denominated in foreign currencies or for speculative or trading purposes. if currency exchange rates were to fluctuate immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as of december 31, 2003, the impact to our financial position or results of operations would not be material. 44quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to interest rate risk primarily through our investments in short-term marketable securities. our investment policy calls for investment in short term, low risk, investment-grade instruments. as of december 31, 2004, cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were $469.8 million. due to the nature of these investments, if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as of december 31, 2004, the decline in fair value would not be material. we are exposed to valuation risks related to our portfolio of long-term investments. these investments are primarily in small capitalization stocks of privately-held companies in the pharmaceutical/biotechnology industry sector and are primarily in companies with which we have research and development, licensing or other collaborative agreements. as of december 31, 2004, long-term investments were $11.4 million. we are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of our foreign operations are translated into u.s. dollars in consolidation. as exchange rates vary, these results, when translated, may vary from expectations and adversely impact our financial position or results of operations. all of our revenues are denominated in u.s. dollars. we do not enter into forward exchange contracts as a hedge against foreign currency exchange risk on transactions denominated in foreign currencies or for speculative or trading purposes. if currency exchange rates were to fluctuate immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as of december 31, 2004, the impact to our financial position or results of operations would not be material. 42risk factors 25 risk factors risks relating to our lead product jakafi we depend heavily on our lead product, jakafi (ruxolitinib), which is marketed as jakavi outside the united states. if we are unable to successfully commercialize jakafi in its approved indications or to successfully obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize ruxolitinib for the treatment of additional indications, or if we are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, our business may be materially harmed. jakafi is our first product to be approved for sale in the united states. it was approved by the u.s. food and drug administration, or fda, in november 2011 for the treatment of patients with intermediate or high risk myelofibrosis and in december 2014 for the treatment of patients with polycythemia vera who have had an inadequate response to or are intolerant of hydroxyurea, which we refer to as uncontrolled polycythemia vera. although we have received regulatory approval for these indications, such approval does not guarantee future revenues. the commercial success of jakafi and our ability to generate and maintain revenues from the sale of jakafi will depend on a number of factors, including: the number of patients with intermediate or high risk myelofibrosis or uncontrolled polycythemia vera who are diagnosed with the disease and the number of such patients that may be treated with jakafi; the acceptance of jakafi by patients and the healthcare community; whether physicians, patients and healthcare payors view jakafi as therapeutically effective and safe relative to cost and any alternative therapies; the ability to obtain and maintain sufficient coverage or reimbursement by third party payors; the ability of our third party manufacturers to manufacture jakafi in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality; the ability of our company and our third party providers to provide marketing and distribution support for jakafi; the label and promotional claims allowed by the fda; the maintenance of regulatory approval for the approved indications in the united states; and our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize ruxolitinib in the united states for additional indications. 25 table of contents if we are not successful in commercializing jakafi in the united states, or are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, our business may be materially harmed and we may need to delay other drug discovery and development initiatives or even significantly curtail operations. in addition, our receipt of royalties under our collaboration agreement with novartis for sales of jakavi outside the united states will depend on factors similar to those listed above for jurisdictions outside the united states. if we are unable to obtain, or maintain at anticipated levels, reimbursement for jakafi from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, our pricing may be affected or our product sales, results of operations or financial condition could be harmed. we may not be able to sell jakafi on a profitable basis or our profitability may be reduced if we are required to sell jakafi at lower than anticipated prices or reimbursement is unavailable or limited in scope or amount. jakafi is expensive and almost all patients will require some form of third party coverage to afford its cost. our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected if we cannot depend on government and other third party payors to defray the cost of jakafi to the patient. in the united states, there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, efforts to control and reduce healthcare costs. government and other third party payors are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting and attempting to limit both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs. if these entities refuse to provide coverage and reimbursement with respect to jakafi, determine to provide a lower level of coverage and reimbursement than anticipated, or reduce previously approved levels of coverage and reimbursement, then our pricing or reimbursement for jakafi may be affected and our product sales, results of operations or financial condition could be harmed. we depend upon a limited number of specialty pharmacies and wholesalers for a significant portion of any revenues from jakafi, and the loss of, or significant reduction in sales to, any one of these specialty pharmacies or wholesalers could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. we sell jakafi primarily to specialty pharmacies and wholesalers . specialty pharmacies dispense jakafi to patients in fulfillment of prescriptions and wholesalers sell jakafi to hospitals and physician office . we do not promote jakafi to specialty pharmacies or wholesalers , and they do not set or determine demand for jakafi. our ability to successfully commercialize jakafi will depend, in part, on the extent to which we are able to provide adequate distribution of jakafi to patients. although we have contracted with a number of specialty pharmacies and wholesalers , they are expected generally to carry a very limited inventory and may be reluctant to be part of our distribution network in the future if demand for the product does not increase. further, it is possible that these specialty pharmacies and wholesalers could decide to change their policies or fees, or both, at some time in the future. this could result in their refusal to carry smaller volume products such as jakafi, or lower margins or the need to find alternative methods of distributing our product. although we believe we can find alternative channels to distribute jakafi on relatively short notice, our revenue during that period of time may suffer and we may incur additional costs to replace any such specialty pharmacy or wholesaler . the loss of any large specialty pharmacy or wholesaler as part of our distribution network, a significant reduction in sales we make to specialty pharmacies or wholesalers , or any failure to pay for the products we have shipped to them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. if we are unable to establish and maintain effective sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or to enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will not be able to successfully commercialize jakafi. prior to our commercialization of jakafi, we had no experience selling and marketing drug products and with pricing and obtaining adequate third party reimbursement for drug products. under our collaboration and license agreement with novartis, we have retained commercialization rights to jakafi in the united states. we have established commercial capabilities in the united states, but cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain our own capabilities or enter into and maintain any marketing, distribution or third party logistics agreements with third party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. we may not be able to correctly judge the size and experience of the sales and marketing force and the scale of distribution capabilities necessary to successfully market and sell jakafi. establishing and maintaining sales, marketing and distribution capabilities are expensive and time consuming. competition for personnel with 26 table of contents experience in sales and marketing can be high. our expenses associated with building and maintaining the sales force and distribution capabilities may be disproportional compared to the revenues we may be able to generate on sales of jakafi. our reliance on other parties to manufacture jakafi could result in a short supply of jakafi, increased costs, and withdrawal of regulatory approval. we do not currently operate manufacturing facilities for commercial production of jakafi. accordingly, we will be subject to the risks described below under other risks relating to our business our reliance on other parties to manufacture our drug products and drug candidates could result in a short supply of the drugs, delays in clinical trials or drug development, increased costs, and withdrawal or denial of a regulatory authority approval. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could lose our approval to market jakafi or be subject to other governmental enforcement activity. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain regulatory approval to market jakafi in the united states. if we do not maintain our regulatory approval to market jakafi, our results of operations will be materially harmed. we and our collaborators, third party manufacturers and suppliers are subject to rigorous and extensive regulation by the fda and other federal and state agencies. these regulations continue to apply after product marketing approval, and cover, among other things, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, advertising, promotion, risk mitigation, and adverse event reporting requirements. our commercialization of jakafi is subject to post regulatory approval product surveillance, and jakafi may have to be withdrawn from the market or subject to restrictions if previously unknown problems occur. regulatory agencies may also require additional clinical trials or testing for jakafi, and jakafi may be recalled or may be subject to reformulation, additional studies, changes in labeling, warnings to the public and negative publicity. failure to comply with the laws and regulations administered by the fda or other agencies could result in: administrative and judicial sanctions, including warning letters; fines and other civil penalties; withdrawal of regulatory approval to market jakafi; interruption of production; operating restrictions; product recall or seizure; injunctions; and criminal prosecution. the occurrence of any such event may have a material adverse effect on our business. 27 table of contents if the use of jakafi harms patients, or is perceived to harm patients even when such harm is unrelated to jakafi, our regulatory approval could be revoked or otherwise negatively impacted or we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. the testing of jakafi and the manufacturing, marketing and sale of jakafi expose us to product liability and other risks. side effects and other problems experienced by patients from the use of jakafi could: lessen the frequency with which physicians decide to prescribe jakafi; encourage physicians to stop prescribing jakafi to their patients who previously had been prescribed jakafi; cause serious harm to patients that may give rise to product liability claims against us; and result in our need to withdraw or recall jakafi from the marketplace. if jakafi is used by a wide patient population, new risks and side effects may be discovered, the rate of known risks or side effects may increase, and risks previously viewed as less significant could be determined to be significant. previously unknown risks and adverse effects of jakafi may also be discovered in connection with unapproved, or off label, uses of jakafi. we are prohibited by law from promoting or in any way supporting or encouraging the promotion of jakafi for off label uses, but physicians are permitted to use products for off label purposes. in addition, we are studying and expect to continue to study jakafi in diseases for potential additional indications in controlled clinical settings, and independent investigators are doing so as well. in the event of any new risks or adverse effects discovered as new patients are treated for intermediate or high risk myelofibrosis or uncontrolled polycythemia vera and as jakafi is studied in or used by patients for off label indications, regulatory authorities may delay or revoke their approvals, we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials, make changes in labeling of jakafi, reformulate jakafi or make changes and obtain new approvals. we may also experience a significant drop in the sales of jakafi, experience harm to our reputation and the reputation of jakafi in the marketplace or become subject to lawsuits, including class actions. any of these results could decrease or prevent sales of jakafi or substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing jakafi. patients who have been enrolled in our clinical trials or who may use jakafi in the future often have severe and advanced stages of disease and known as well as unknown significant pre existing and potentially life threatening health risks. during the course of treatment, patients may suffer adverse events, including death, for reasons that may or may not be related to jakafi. such events could subject us to costly litigation, require us to pay substantial amounts of money to injured patients, delay, negatively impact or end our opportunity to receive or maintain regulatory approval to market jakafi, or require us to suspend or abandon our commercialization efforts. even in a circumstance in which we do not believe that an adverse event is related to jakafi, the investigation into the circumstance may be time consuming or inconclusive. these investigations may interrupt our sales efforts, impact and limit the type of regulatory approvals jakafi receives or maintains, or delay the regulatory approval process for our collaborator novartis in other countries. factors similar to those listed above also apply to our collaboration partner novartis for jurisdictions outside the united states. if we market jakafi in a manner that violates various federal and state health care related laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. in addition to fda and related regulatory requirements, we are subject to health care fraud and abuse laws, such as the federal false claims act, the anti kickback provisions of the federal social security act, and other state and federal laws and regulations. federal and state anti kickback laws prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce, or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any health care item or service reimbursable under medicare, medicaid, or other federally or state financed health care programs. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, 28 table of contents or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities. although physicians are permitted, based on their medical judgment, to prescribe products for indications other than those approved by the fda, manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products for such off label uses. we market jakafi for intermediate or high risk myelofibrosis and uncontrolled polycythemia vera and provide promotional materials to physicians regarding the use of jakafi for these indications. although we believe that our promotional materials for physicians do not constitute off label promotion of jakafi, the fda or other agencies may disagree. if the fda or another agency determines that our promotional materials or other activities constitute off label promotion of jakafi, it could request that we modify our promotional materials or other activities or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. it is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they believe that the alleged improper promotion led to the submission and payment of claims for an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. even if it is later determined we are not in violation of these laws, we may be faced with negative publicity, incur significant expenses defending our position and have to divert significant management resources from other matters. the majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. in recent years, several states and localities, including california, connecticut, the district of columbia, massachusetts, minnesota, nevada, new mexico, texas, vermont, and west virginia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. similar legislation is being considered in other states. additionally, as part of the patient protection and affordable care act, the federal government has enacted the physician payment sunshine provisions. the sunshine provisions require manufacturers to publicly report certain payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals. many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements are unclear. nonetheless, if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement action and fines and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity. see also other risks relating to our business if we fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory requirements affecting the health care industry, we could face increased costs, penalties and a loss of business below. our business operates in an extremely competitive environment. the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries in which we operate are highly competitive. our present and potential competitors could include major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as specialty pharmaceutical firms. for example, gilead sciences, inc . has a drug candidate in phase iii clinical trials for the treatment of myelofibrosis. we are also aware of companies that have initiated or are planning to initiate clinical trials for the treatment of diseases that we are also targeting. some of these present and potential competitors could have considerably greater resources than we have, enabling them, among other things, to make greater research and development and marketing investments or to engage in price competition. we also experience competition in drug discovery and development from universities and other research institutions, and we compete with others in acquiring technology from these sources. the pharmaceutical industry has undergone, and is expected to continue to undergo, rapid and significant technological change and we expect competition to intensify as technical advances are made and become more widely known. the development of products or processes by our competitors with significant advantages over those that we are developing could adversely affect our future revenues and profitability. competition for jakafi from generic products could potentially harm our business and result in a decrease in our revenue. as a result of the drug price competition and patent term restoration act of 1984, commonly known as the hatch-waxman act, in the united states, generic manufacturers may seek approval of a generic version of an innovative pharmaceutical by filing with the fda an abbreviated new drug application, or anda. jakafi was approved pursuant 29 table of contents to a new drug application, or nda, by the fda on november 16, 2011. the four-year period after which a generic manufacturer may file an anda and challenge the patents related to jakafi expired on november 16, 2015. since the hatch-waxman act provides significant incentives to generic manufacturers to challenge u.s. patents on successful innovative pharmaceutical products, generic manufacturers may target jakafi and challenge our related u.s. patent rights as early as the fourth quarter of 2015. there can be no assurance that our patents will be upheld or that any litigation in which we might engage with any such generic manufacturer would be successful in protecting jakafi exclusivity. the entry of a generic version of jakafi could result in a decrease in jakafi sales and have a material adverse effect on our operating results and business. other risks relating to our business we may be unsuccessful in our efforts to discover and develop drug candidates and commercialize drug products. none of our drug candidates, other than jakafi/jakavi, has received regulatory approval. our ability to discover and develop drug candidates and to commercialize additional drug products will depend on our ability to: hire and retain key employees; identify high quality therapeutic targets; identify potential drug candidates; develop products internally or license drug candidates from others; identify and enroll suitable human subjects, either in the united states or abroad, for our clinical trials; complete laboratory testing ; commence, conduct and complete safe and effective clinical trials on humans; obtain and maintain necessary intellectual property rights to our products; obtain and maintain necessary regulatory approvals for our products, both in the united states and abroad; enter into arrangements with third parties to provide services or to manufacture our products on our behalf; deploy sales and marketing resources effectively or enter into arrangements with third parties to provide these functions in compliance with all applicable laws; obtain appropriate coverage and reimbursement levels for the cost of our products from governmental authorities, private health insurers and other third party payors; lease facilities at reasonable rates to support our growth; and enter into arrangements with third parties to license and commercialize our products. we have limited experience with the activities listed above and may not be successful in discovering, developing, or commercializing drug products. discovery and development of drug candidates are expensive , uncertain and time consuming, and we do not know if our efforts will lead to discovery of any drug candidates that can be successfully developed and marketed. of the compounds or biologics that we identify as potential drug products or that we may in license from other companies, including potential products for which we are conducting clinical trials, only a few, if any, are likely to lead to successful drug development programs and commercialized drug products. 30 table of contents we depend heavily on the success of our most advanced drug candidates. we might not be able to commercialize any of our drug candidates successfully, and we may spend significant time and money attempting to do so. we have invested significant resources in the development of our most advanced drug candidates. ruxolitinib had been in phase iii clinical trials for the treatment of advanced or metastatic pancreatic cancer, as well as in other clinical trials. epacadostat is expected to commence phase iii clinical trials later in 2016. further, we have a number of drug candidates in phase i and phase ii clinical trials. our ability to generate product revenues will depend on the successful development and eventual commercialization of our most advanced drug candidates. we, or our collaborators or licensees, may decide to discontinue development of any or all of our drug candidates at any time for commercial, scientific or other reasons. for example, we have recently decided to discontinue the studies of ruxolitinib in pancreatic cancer and solid tumors and incb 39110 in pancreatic cancer. if a product is developed but not approved or marketed, we may have spent significant amounts of time and money on it, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition as well as our business plans . if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates in the united states and foreign jurisdictions, we will not be permitted to commercialize products resulting from our research. in order to commercialize drug products in the united states, our drug candidates will have to obtain regulatory approval from the fda. satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years. to obtain regulatory approval, we must first show that our drug candidates are safe and effective for target indications through preclinical testing (animal testing) and clinical trials (human testing). preclinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes, and we do not know whether the fda will allow us to undertake clinical trials of any drug candidates in addition to our compounds currently in clinical trials. if regulatory approval of a product is granted, this approval will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which the product is demonstrated through clinical trials to be safe and effective. completion of clinical trials may take several years and failure may occur at any stage of testing. the length of time required varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the drug candidate. interim results of a preclinical test or clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results, and acceptable results in early clinical trials may not be repeated in later clinical trials. for example, a drug candidate that is successful at the preclinical level may cause harmful or dangerous side effects when tested at the clinical level. our rate of commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed, and our existing clinical trials may be stopped, due to many potential factors, including: the high degree of risk and uncertainty associated with drug development; our inability to formulate or manufacture sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials; variability in the number and types of patients available for each study; difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, resulting in incomplete data; unforeseen safety issues or side effects; poor or unanticipated effectiveness of drug candidates during the clinical trials; or government or regulatory delays. data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretation, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. many companies in the pharmaceutical industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving promising results in earlier clinical trials. in addition, regulatory authorities may refuse or delay approval as a result of other factors, such as changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development and regulatory agency review. for example, the fda has in the past required and could in the future require that we conduct additional trials of any of our drug candidates, which would result in delays. 31 table of contents compounds or biologics developed by us or with or by our collaborators and licensees may not prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials and may not meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements needed to receive marketing approval. for example, in january 2016, a phase ii trial that was evaluating ruxolitinib in combination with regorafenib in patients with relapsed or refractory metastatic colorectal cancer and high c-reactive protein was stopped early after a planned analysis of interim efficacy data determined that the likelihood of the trial meeting its efficacy endpoint was insufficient . in addition, in february 2016, we made a decision to discontinue our janus 1 study, our janus 2 study, our other studies of ruxolitinib in colorectal, breast and lung cancer, and our study of incb39110 in pancreatic cancer after a planned analysis of interim efficacy data of janus 1 demonstrated that ruxolitinib plus capecitabine did not show a sufficient level of efficacy to warrant continuation. if clinical trials of any of our compounds or biologics are stopped for safety, efficacy or other reasons or fail to meet their respective endpoints, our overall development plans, business, prospects, expected operating results and financial condition could be materially harmed and the value of our company could be negatively affected. outside the united states, our ability to market a product is contingent upon receiving a marketing authorization from the appropriate regulatory authorities. this foreign regulatory approval process typically includes all of the risks associated with the fda approval process described above and may also include additional risks. the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country and may require us to perform additional testing and expend additional resources. approval by the fda does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or by the fda. we depend on our collaborators and licensees for the future development and commercialization of some of our drug candidates. conflicts may arise between our collaborators and licensees and us, or our collaborators and licensees may choose to terminate their agreements with us, which may adversely affect our business. we have licensed to novartis rights to ruxolitinib outside of the united states and worldwide rights to our c met inhibitor compounds and licensed to lilly worldwide rights to baricitinib. we have also licensed to pfizer our portfolio of ccr2 antagonist compounds. under the terms of our agreements with these collaborators, we have no or limited control over the further clinical development of these drug candidates and any revenues we may receive if these drug candidates receive regulatory approval and are commercialized will depend primarily on the development and commercialization efforts of others. conflicts may arise with our collaborators and licensees if they pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products either on their own or in collaboration with others as a means for developing treatments for the diseases that we have targeted. competing products and product opportunities may lead our collaborators and licensees to withdraw their support for our drug candidates. any failure of our collaborators and licensees to perform their obligations under our agreements with them or otherwise to support our drug candidates could negatively impact the development of our drug candidates, lead to our loss of potential revenues from product sales and milestones and delay our achievement, if any, of profitability. additionally, conflicts may arise if, among other things, there is a dispute about the achievement and payment of a milestone amount or the ownership of intellectual property that is developed during the course of a collaborative relationship. our existing collaborative and license agreements can be terminated by our collaborators and licensees for convenience, among other circumstances. if any of our collaborators or licensees terminates its agreement with us, or terminates its rights with respect to certain indications or drug candidates, we may not be able to find a new collaborator for them, and our business could be adversely affected. should an agreement be terminated before we have realized the benefits of the collaboration or license, our reputation could be harmed, we may not obtain revenues that we anticipated receiving, and our business could be adversely affected. 32 table of contents the success of our drug discovery and development efforts may depend on our ability to find suitable collaborators to fully exploit our capabilities. if we are unable to establish collaborations or if these future collaborations are unsuccessful in the development and commercialization of our drug candidates, our research, development and commercialization efforts may be unsuccessful, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. an important element of our business strategy is to enter into collaborative or license arrangements with other parties, under which we license our drug candidates to those parties for development and commercialization or under which we study our drug candidates in combination with such parties compounds or biologics. we are evaluating strategic relationships with respect to several of our other programs and may enter into an agreement with respect to one or more of these programs in the future. however, because collaboration and license arrangements are complex to negotiate, we may not be successful in our attempts to establish these arrangements. also, we may not have drug candidates that are desirable to other parties, or we may be unwilling to license a drug candidate to a particular party because such party interested in it is a competitor or for other reasons. the terms of any such arrangements that we establish may not be favorable to us. alternatively, potential collaborators may decide against entering into an agreement with us because of our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position or for scientific, commercial or other reasons. if we are not able to establish collaboration or license arrangements, we may not be able to develop and commercialize a drug product, which could adversely affect our business and our revenues. in order for any of these collaboration or license arrangements to be successful, we must first identify potential collaborators or licensees whose capabilities complement and integrate well with ours. we may rely on these arrangements for not only financial resources, but also for expertise or economies of scale that we expect to need in the future relating to clinical trials, manufacturing, sales and marketing, and for licenses to technology rights. however, it is likely that we will not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators or licensees devote to our programs or drug candidates. if our collaborators or licensees prove difficult to work with, are less skilled than we originally expected, do not devote adequate resources to the program, pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products, or do not agree with our approach to development or manufacturing of the drug candidate, the relationship could be unsuccessful. if a business combination involving a collaborator or licensee and a third party were to occur, the effect could be to terminate or cause delays in development of a drug candidate. if we fail to enter into additional licensing agreements or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our business and operations might be adversely affected. in addition to establishing collaborative or license arrangements under which other parties license our drug candidates for development and commercialization or under which we study our drug candidates in combination with such parties compounds or biologics, we may explore opportunities to develop our clinical pipeline by in-licensing drug candidates that fit within our focus on oncology, such as our collaborations with agenus and jiangsu hengrui medicine co., ltd. we may be unable to enter into any additional in-licensing agreements because suitable drug candidates that are within our expertise may not be available to us on terms that are acceptable to us or because competitors with greater resources seek to in-license the same drug candidates. drug candidates that we would like to develop may not be available to us because they are controlled by competitors who are unwilling to license the rights to the drug candidate to us. in addition, we may enter into license agreements that are unsuccessful and our business and operations might be adversely affected by the termination of a drug candidate and termination and winding down of the related license agreement. we may also need to license drug delivery or other technology in order to continue to develop our drug candidates. if we are unable to enter into additional agreements to license drug candidates, drug delivery technology or other technology or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our research and development efforts could be adversely affected. even if a drug candidate that we develop receives regulatory approval, we may decide not to commercialize it if we determine that commercialization of that product would require more money and time than we are willing to invest. even if any of our drug candidates receives regulatory approval, it could be subject to post regulatory surveillance, and may have to be withdrawn from the market or subject to restrictions if previously unknown problems occur. regulatory agencies may also require additional clinical trials or testing, and the drug product may be recalled or may be subject to reformulation, additional studies, changes in labeling, warnings to the public and negative publicity. as 33 table of contents a result, we may not continue to commercialize a product even though it has obtained regulatory approval. further, we may decide not to continue to commercialize a product if the market does not accept the product because it is too expensive or because third parties such as insurance companies or medicare have not approved it for substantial reimbursement. in addition, we may decide not to continue to commercialize a product if competitors develop and commercialize similar or superior products or have proprietary rights that preclude us from ultimately marketing our products. any approved drug product that we bring to the market may not gain market acceptance by physicians, patients, healthcare payors and others in the medical community. even if we are successful in gaining regulatory approval of any of our drug candidates in addition to jakafi, we may not generate significant product revenues and we may not become profitable if these drug products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance. physicians may not recommend our drug products until longer term clinical data or other factors demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our drug products as compared to other alternative treatments. even if the clinical safety and efficacy of our drug products is established, physicians may elect not to prescribe these drug products for a variety of reasons, including the reimbursement policies of government and other third party payors and the effectiveness of our competitors in marketing their products. market acceptance of our drug products, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including: the willingness and ability of patients and the healthcare community to use our drug products; the ability to manufacture our drug products in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality and to offer our drug products for sale at competitive prices; the perception of patients and the healthcare community, including third party payors, regarding the safety, efficacy and benefits of our drug products compared to those of competing products or therapies; the label and promotional claims allowed by the fda; the pricing and reimbursement of our drug products relative to existing treatments; and marketing and distribution support for our drug products. we have limited capacity to conduct preclinical testing and clinical trials, and our resulting dependence on other parties could result in delays in and additional costs for our drug development efforts. we have limited internal resources and capacity to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials. as part of our development strategy, we often hire clinical research organizations, or cros, to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials for drug candidates. if the cros that we hire to perform our preclinical testing and clinical trials do not meet deadlines, do not follow proper procedures, or a conflict arises between us and our cros, our preclinical testing and clinical trials may take longer than expected, may cost more, may be delayed or may be terminated. if we were forced to find a replacement entity to perform any of our preclinical testing or clinical trials, we may not be able to find a suitable entity on favorable terms, or at all. even if we were able to find another company to perform a preclinical test or clinical trial, the delay in the test or trial may result in significant additional expenditures. events such as these may result in delays in our obtaining regulatory approval for our drug candidates or our ability to commercialize our products and could result in increased expenditures that would adversely affect our operating results. we face significant competition for our drug discovery and development efforts, and if we do not compete effectively, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated. the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. our drug discovery and development efforts may target diseases and conditions that are already 34 table of contents subject to existing therapies or that are being developed by our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, more experience in completing preclinical testing and clinical trials, and formulation, marketing and manufacturing capabilities. as a result of these resources, our competitors may develop drug products that render our products obsolete or noncompetitive by developing more effective drugs or by developing their products more efficiently. our ability to develop competitive products would be limited if our competitors succeeded in obtaining regulatory approvals for drug candidates more rapidly than we were able to or in obtaining patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limited our drug development efforts. any drug products resulting from our research and development efforts, or from our joint efforts with collaborators or licensees, might not be able to compete successfully with our competitors existing and future products, or obtain regulatory approval in the united states or elsewhere. our reliance on other parties to manufacture our drug products and drug candidates could result in a short supply of the drugs, delays in clinical trials or drug development, increased costs, and withdrawal or denial of a regulatory authority approval. we do not currently operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of jakafi and our other drug candidates. we currently hire third parties to manufacture the raw materials, active pharmaceutical ingredient, or api, and finished drug product of jakafi and our other drug candidates for clinical trials. in addition, we expect to continue to rely on third parties for the manufacture of commercial supplies of raw materials, api and finished drug product for any drugs that we successfully develop. for jakafi and most of our drug candidates, we hire third parties to manufacture the raw materials, api and finished drug product . we also hire third parties to package and label the finished product. the fda requires that the raw materials, api and finished product for jakafi and our other drug candidates be manufactured according to its current good manufacturing practices regulations and regulatory authorities in other countries have similar requirements. there are only a limited number of manufacturers that comply with these requirements. failure to comply with current good manufacturing practices and the applicable regulatory requirements of other countries in the manufacture of our drug candidates and products could result in the fda or foreign regulatory authority halting our clinical trials, withdrawing or denying regulatory approval of our drug product, enforcing product recalls or other enforcement actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of our drug candidates or any drug products we may develop if our designated manufacturers do not have the capacity or capability to manufacture them according to our schedule and specifications. in addition, we may not be able to arrange for our drug candidates or any drug products that we may develop to be manufactured by one of these parties on reasonable terms, if at all. also, required raw materials may only be available from a limited number of suppliers and, in the case of jakafi, are currently supplied by a single source. as noted above, generally, we have a single source or a limited number of suppliers that are qualified to supply each of the api and finished product of jakafi and our other drug candidates. if any of these suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to supply us with raw materials, api or finished product that complies with applicable regulatory requirements, we could incur significant delays in our clinical trials or interruption of commercial supply that could have a material adverse effect on our business. if we have promised delivery of a drug candidate or drug product and are unable to meet the delivery requirement due to manufacturing difficulties, our development programs could be delayed, we may have to expend additional sums in order to ensure that manufacturing capacity is available when we need it even if we do not use all of the manufacturing capacity, and our business and operating results could be harmed. manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, especially in scaling up initial production. these problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control and assurance and shortages of qualified personnel, as well as compliance with strictly enforced federal, state and foreign regulations. in order to obtain approval of our products by the fda and foreign regulatory agencies, we need to complete testing on both the api and on the finished product in the packaging we propose for commercial sales. this includes testing of stability, identification of impurities and testing of other product specifications by validated test methods. in addition, we will be required to consistently produce the api in commercial quantities and of specified quality on a repeated basis and document our ability to do so. this requirement is referred to as process validation. 35 table of contents we may not be able to adequately manage and oversee the manufacturers we choose, they may not perform as agreed or they may terminate their agreements with us. foreign manufacturing approval processes typically include all of the risks associated with the fda approval process for manufacturing and may also include additional risks. under our collaboration with agenus, agenus has primary responsibility for manufacturing activities, including selecting and monitoring third party manufacturers. manufacturing antibodies and products containing antibodies is a more complex process than manufacturing small molecule drugs and subject to additional risks. the process of manufacturing antibodies and products containing antibodies is highly susceptible to product loss due to contamination, equipment failure or improper installation or operation of equipment, vendor or operator error, inconsistency in yields, variability in product characteristics, and difficulties in scaling the production process. even minor deviations from normal manufacturing processes could result in reduced production yields, product defects and other supply disruptions. if microbial, viral or other contaminations are discovered in our product candidates or in the manufacturing facilities in which our product candidates are made, such manufacturing facilities may need to be closed for an extended period of time to investigate and remedy the contamination. if we fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory requirements affecting the health care industry, we could face increased costs, penalties and a loss of business. our activities, and the activities of our collaborators, partners and third party providers, are subject to extensive government regulation and oversight both in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions. the fda and comparable agencies in other jurisdictions directly regulate many of our most critical business activities, including the conduct of preclinical and clinical studies, product manufacturing, advertising and promotion, product distribution, adverse event reporting and product risk management. states increasingly have been placing greater restrictions on the marketing practices of healthcare companies. in addition, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been the target of lawsuits and investigations alleging violations of government regulations, including claims asserting submission of incorrect pricing information, impermissible off label promotion of pharmaceutical products, payments intended to influence the referral of federal or state healthcare business, submission of false claims for government reimbursement, antitrust violations, violations of the foreign corrupt practices act and similar anti bribery or anti corruption laws, or violations related to environmental matters. violations of governmental regulation may be punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in government programs, including medicare and medicaid. in addition to penalties for violation of laws and regulations, we could be required to repay amounts we received from government payors, or pay additional rebates and interest if we are found to have miscalculated the pricing information we have submitted to the government. we cannot ensure that our compliance controls, policies, and procedures will in every instance protect us from acts committed by our employees, collaborators, partners or third party providers that would violate the laws or regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate. whether or not we have complied with the law, an investigation into alleged unlawful conduct could increase our expenses, damage our reputation, divert management time and attention and adversely affect our business. health care reform measures could impact the pricing and profitability of pharmaceuticals, and adversely affect the commercial viability of our drug candidates. our ability to generate revenues will be diminished if we are unable to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement from private insurers, government insurance programs or other third party payors of health care costs, which could be affected by recent healthcare reform legislation. our ability to commercialize our drug candidates successfully will depend in part on the extent to which adequate reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatment are obtained from third party payors, such as private insurers, government insurance programs, including medicare and medicaid, health maintenance organizations (hmos) and other health care related organizations. in recent years, through legislative and regulatory actions, the federal government has made substantial changes to various payment systems under the medicare and other federal health care programs. comprehensive reforms to the u.s. healthcare system were recently enacted, including changes to the methods for, and amounts of, medicare reimbursement. these reforms could significantly reduce payments from medicare and medicaid. reforms or other changes to these payment systems, may change the availability, methods and rates of reimbursements from medicare, private insurers and other third party payors for our drug candidates. some of these changes and proposed changes could 36 table of contents result in reduced reimbursement rates, which could reduce the price that we or any of our collaborators or licensees receive for any products, if commercialized, in the future, and which would adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. further federal and state proposals to regulate prices of pharmaceutical products and other health care reforms are possible, which could limit the prices that can be charged for any of our drug candidates and may further limit the commercial viability of our drug candidates. in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. if reimbursement for our products, if commercialized, is unavailable, limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our business could be materially harmed. there may be future changes that result in reductions in current coverage and reimbursement levels for our drug candidates, and we cannot predict the scope of any future changes or the impact that those changes would have on our operations. third party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. also, the trend toward managed health care in the united states, the organizations for which could control or significantly influence the purchase of health care services and products, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may all result in lower prices for or rejection of our products. adoption of our drug candidates by the medical community may be limited without adequate reimbursement for our products. cost control initiatives may decrease coverage and payment levels for our drug candidates and, in turn, the price that we will be able to charge for any product, if commercialized. our drug candidates may not be considered cost effective, and coverage and reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis. we are unable to predict all changes to the coverage or reimbursement methodologies that will be applied by private or government payors to our drug candidates. the continuing efforts of third party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care, any denial of private or government payor coverage or inadequate reimbursement for our drug candidates could materially and adversely affect our business strategy, operations, future revenues and profitability, and the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers, collaborators and licensees and the availability of capital. as our drug discovery and development operations are conducted at our headquarters in wilmington, delaware, the loss of access to this facility would negatively impact our business. our facility in wilmington, delaware is our headquarters and is also where we conduct all of our drug discovery, research, development and marketing activities. in addition, natural disasters or actions of activists opposed to aspects of pharmaceutical research may disrupt our experiments or our ability to access or use our facility. the loss of access to or use of our wilmington, delaware, facility, either on a temporary or permanent basis would result in an interruption of our business and, consequently, would adversely affect our overall business. we depend on key employees in a competitive market for skilled personnel, and the loss of the services of any of our key employees or our inability to attract and retain additional personnel would affect our ability to expand our drug discovery and development programs and achieve our objectives. we are highly dependent on the members of our executive management team and principal members of our commercial, development, medical, operations and scientific staff. we experience intense competition for qualified personnel. our future success also depends in part on the continued service of our executive management team and key personnel and our ability to recruit, train and retain essential personnel for our drug discovery and development programs, and for our medical affairs and commercialization activities. if we lose the services of any of these people or if we are unable to recruit sufficient qualified personnel, our research and product development goals, and our commercialization efforts could be delayed or curtailed. we do not maintain key person insurance on any of our employees. if we fail to manage our growth effectively, our ability to develop and commercialize products could suffer. we expect that if our drug discovery efforts continue to generate drug candidates, our clinical drug candidates continue to progress in development, and we continue to build our development, medical and commercial organizations, we will require significant additional investment in personnel, management and resources. our ability to achieve our research, development and commercialization objectives depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands and expand our internal organization, systems, controls and facilities to accommodate additional anticipated growth. if we 37 table of contents are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business could be harmed and our ability to execute our business strategy could suffer. risks associated with expanding our operations to europe could adversely affect our business. we plan to continue to expand our operations and conduct certain development activities in europe. we have limited experience with conducting activities outside of the united states. international operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous additional risks, including: multiple, conflicting and changing laws and regulations such as tax laws, privacy regulations, export and import restrictions, employment, immigration and labor laws, regulatory requirements, and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; risks associated with obtaining and maintaining, or the failure to obtain or maintain, regulatory approvals for the sale or use of our products in various countries; complexities associated with managing government payor systems, multiple payor reimbursement regimes or patient self pay systems; financial risks, such as longer payment cycles, difficulty enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable and exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; general political and economic conditions in the countries in operate, including terrorism and political unrest, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions; regulatory and compliance risks that relate to maintaining accurate information and control over activities that may fall within the purview of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, its books and records provisions or its anti bribery provisions, or similar anti bribery or anti corruption laws and regulations; any of these risks, if encountered, could significantly increase our costs of operating internationally, prevent us from operating in certain jurisdictions, or otherwise significantly harm our future international expansion and operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we could face substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products and our results of operations could be harmed. in addition to the risks described above under risks relating to our lead product jakafi if the use of jakafi harms patients, or is perceived to harm patients even when such harm is unrelated to jakafi, our regulatory approval could be revoked or otherwise negatively impacted or we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims, the conduct of clinical trials of medical products that are intended for human use entails an inherent risk of product liability. if any product that we or any of our collaborators or licensees develops causes or is alleged to cause injury during clinical trials or commercialization, we may be held liable. if we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities, including substantial damages to be paid to the plaintiffs and legal costs, or we may be required to limit further development and commercialization of our products. additionally, any product liability lawsuit could cause injury to our reputation, participants and investigators to withdraw from clinical trials, and potential collaborators or licensees to seek other partners, any of which could impact our results of operations. our product liability insurance policy may not fully cover our potential liabilities. in addition, we may determine that we should increase our coverage, and this insurance may be prohibitively expensive to us or our collaborators or licensees and may not fully cover our potential liabilities. our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at 38 table of contents an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the development or commercialization of our drug candidates and products. because our activities involve the use of hazardous materials, we may be subject to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials that could be time consuming and costly. we are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the use, handling, storage and disposal of regulated substances and the health and safety of our employees. our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous and radioactive materials and biological waste resulting in the production of hazardous waste products. we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. if any injury or contamination results from our use or the use by our collaborators or licensees of these materials, we may be sued and our liability may exceed our insurance coverage and our total assets. further, we may be required to indemnify our collaborators or licensees against all damages and other liabilities arising out of our development activities or products produced in connection with these collaborations or licenses. compliance with the applicable environmental and workplace laws and regulations is expensive. future changes to environmental, health, workplace and safety laws could cause us to incur additional expense or may restrict our operations or impair our research, development and production efforts. risks relating to our financial results we expect to incur losses in the future and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. we had net losses from inception in 1991 through 1996 and in 1999 through december 31, 201 4 . because of those losses, we had an accumulated deficit of $1.8 billion as of december 31, 2015 . we intend to continue to spend significant amounts on our efforts to discover and develop drugs. as a result, we could continue to incur losses in 201 6 and in future periods as well. we anticipate that our drug discovery and development efforts and related expenditures will increase as we focus on the studies, including preclinical tests and clinical trials prior to seeking regulatory approval, that are required before we can sell a drug product. the development of drug products will require us to spend significant funds on research, development, testing, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing and marketing. to date, we do not have any drug products that have generated significant revenues other than from sales of jakafi and we cannot assure you that we will generate significant revenues from the drug candidates that we license or develop, including jakafi, for several years, if ever. we cannot be certain whether or when we will achieve profitability because of the significant uncertainties relating to our ability to generate commercially successful drug products. even if we are successful in obtaining regulatory approvals for manufacturing and commercializing drug products in addition to jakafi, we expect that we will continue to incur losses if our drug products do not generate significant revenues. if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability. we may need additional capital in the future. if we are unable to generate sufficient funds from operations, the capital markets may not permit us to raise additional capital at the time that we require it, which could result in limitations on our research and development or commercialization efforts or the loss of certain of our rights in our technologies or drug candidates. our future funding requirements will depend on many factors and we anticipate that we may need to raise additional capital to fund our business plan and research and development efforts going forward and to repay our indebtedness. additional factors that may affect our future funding requirements include: the amount of revenues generated from our business activities; 39 table of contents any changes in the breadth of our research and development programs; the results of research and development, preclinical testing and clinical trials conducted by us or our current or future collaborators or licensees, if any; our exercise of any co development options with collaborators that may require us to fund future development; the acquisition of businesses, technologies, or drug candidates, or the licensing of technologies or drug candidates, if any; costs for future facility requirements; our ability to maintain and establish new corporate relationships and research collaborations; competing technological and market developments; the time and costs involved in filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent and intellectual property claims; the receipt of contingent licensing or milestone fees or royalties on product sales from our current or future collaborative and license arrangements, if established; and the timing of regulatory approvals, if any. if we require additional capital at a time when investment in companies such as ours, or in the marketplace generally, is limited due to the then prevailing market or other conditions, we may have to scale back our operations, eliminate one or more of our research or development programs, or attempt to obtain funds by entering into an agreement with a collaborator or licensee that would result in terms that are not favorable to us or relinquishing our rights in certain of our proprietary technologies or drug candidates. if we are unable to raise funds at the time that we desire or at any time thereafter on acceptable terms, we may not be able to continue to develop our drug candidates. the sale of equity or additional convertible debt securities in the future may be dilutive to our stockholders, and debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that could restrict our operations or our ability to incur further indebtedness. we have a large amount of debt and our debt service obligations may prevent us from taking actions that we would otherwise consider to be in our best interests. as of december 31, 2015 , the aggregate principal amount of our total consolidated debt was $749.8 million and our stockholders equity was $171.2 million. our substantial leverage could have significant negative consequences for our future operations, including: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital and research and development expenditures, and general corporate purposes; requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our expected cash flow or our existing cash to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our cash available for other purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures and research and development expenditures; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; or 40 table of contents placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. we may not generate sufficient cash flow from our operations in the future to enable us to meet our anticipated fixed charges, including our obligations with respect to our outstanding convertible senior notes. as of december 31, 2015 , $375.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 0.375% convertible senior notes due 2018 was outstanding and due in november 2018. annual interest payments for our 0.375% convertible senior notes through 2018, assuming that none of these notes are converted, repurchased or exchanged, are $1.4 million. as of december 31, 2015 , $374.8 million aggregate principal amount of our 1.25% convertible senior notes due 2020 was outstanding and due in november 2020. annual interest payments for our 1.25% convertible senior notes through 2020, assuming that none of these notes are converted, repurchased or exchanged, are $ 4.7 million. if we are unable to generate cash from our operations or raise additional cash through financings sufficient to meet the remaining obligations under our convertible senior notes, we will need to use existing cash or liquidate marketable securities in order to fund these obligations, which may delay or curtail our research, development and commercialization programs. our marketable securities and long term investments are subject to certain risks that could adversely affect our overall financial position. we invest our cash in accordance with an established internal policy and customarily in instruments, corporate bonds and money market funds which historically have been highly liquid and carried relatively low risk. recently similar types of investments and money market funds have experienced losses in value or liquidity issues which differ from their historical pattern. should a portion of our cash or marketable securities lose value or have their liquidity impaired, it could adversely affect our overall financial position by imperiling our ability to fund our operations and forcing us to seek additional financing sooner than we would otherwise. such financing, if available, may not be available on commercially attractive terms. any loss in value of our long term investments could adversely affect our financial position on the consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of operations. our current revenues are derived from jakafi product sales, jakavi product royalties, collaborations and from licensing our intellectual property. if we are unable to achieve milestones, develop products or renew or enter into new collaborations, our revenues may decrease, and future milestone and royalty payments may not contribute significantly to revenues for several years, and may never result in revenues. we derived substantially all of our revenues for the year ended december 31, 2015 from jakafi product revenues, jakavi product royalties and our collaborations and licensing our intellectual property to others. future revenues from research and development collaborations depend upon continuation of the collaborations, the achievement of milestones and royalties we earn from any future products developed from our research. if we are unable to successfully achieve milestones or our collaborators fail to develop successful products, we will not earn the future revenues contemplated under our collaborative agreements. risks relating to intellectual property and legal matters if we are subject to arbitration, litigation and infringement claims, they could be costly and disrupt our drug discovery and development efforts. the technology that we use to make and develop our drug products, the technology that we incorporate in our products, and the products we are developing may be subject to claims that they infringe the patents or proprietary rights of others. the success of our drug discovery and development efforts will also depend on our ability to develop new compounds, drugs and technologies without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. we are aware of patents and patent applications filed in certain countries claiming intellectual property relating to some of our drug discovery targets and drug candidates. while the validity of issued patents, patentability of pending patent applications 41 table of contents and applicability of any of them to our programs are uncertain, if any of these patents are asserted against us or if we choose to license any of these patents, our ability to commercialize our products could be harmed or the potential return to us from any product that may be successfully commercialized could be diminished. from time to time we have received, and we may in the future receive, notices from third parties offering licenses to technology or alleging patent, trademark, or copyright infringement, claims regarding trade secrets or other contract claims. receipt of these notices could result in significant costs as a result of the diversion of the attention of management from our drug discovery and development efforts. parties sending these notices may have brought and in the future may bring litigation against us or seek arbitration relating to contract claims. we may be involved in future lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights or contract violations. in addition, litigation or other legal proceedings may be necessary to: assert claims of infringement; enforce our patents or trademarks; protect our trade secrets or know how; or determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. we may be unsuccessful in defending or pursuing these lawsuits, claims or other legal proceedings. regardless of the outcome, litigation or other legal proceedings can be very costly and can divert management efforts. an adverse determination may subject us to significant liabilities or require us or our collaborators or licensees to seek licenses to other parties patents or proprietary rights. we or our collaborators or licensees may also be restricted or prevented from manufacturing or selling a drug or other product that we or they develop. further, we or our future collaborators or licensees may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. if we are unable to develop non infringing technology or license technology on a timely basis or on reasonable terms, our business could be harmed. we may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our proprietary information, which may result in its unauthorized use, a loss of revenue under a collaboration agreement or loss of sales to generic versions of our products or otherwise reduce our ability to compete in developing and commercializing products. our business and competitive position depends in significant part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology, including any drug products that we create. despite our efforts to protect this information, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. for example, one of our collaborators may disclose proprietary information pertaining to our drug discovery efforts. in addition, while we have filed numerous patent applications with respect to ruxolitinib and our drug candidates in the united states and in foreign countries, our patent applications may fail to result in issued patents. in addition, because patent applications can take several years to issue as patents, there may be pending patent applications of others that may later issue as patents that cover some aspect of ruxolitinib and our drug candidates. our existing patents and any future patents we may obtain may not be broad enough to protect our products or all of the potential uses of our products, or otherwise prevent others from developing competing products or technologies. in addition, our patents may be challenged and invalidated or may fail to provide us with any competitive advantages if, for example, others were first to invent or first to file a patent application for the technologies and products covered by our patents. additionally, when we do not control the prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of certain important intellectual property, such as a drug candidate in licensed to us or subject to a collaboration with a third party, the protection of the intellectual property rights may not be in our hands. if we do not control the intellectual property rights in licensed to us with respect to a drug candidate and the entity that controls the intellectual property rights does not adequately protect those rights, our rights may be impaired, which may impact our ability to develop, market and commercialize the in licensed drug candidate. 42 table of contents our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate, and our competitors may: independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, products and techniques; otherwise gain access to our proprietary information; or design around patents issued to us or our other intellectual property. we pursue a policy of having our employees, consultants and advisors execute proprietary information and invention agreements when they begin working for us. however, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. if we fail to maintain trade secret and patent protection, our potential, future revenues may be decreased. if the effective term of our patents is decreased due to changes in the united states patent laws or if we need to refile some of our patent applications, the value of our patent portfolio and the revenues we derive from it may be decreased. the value of our patents depends in part on their duration. a shorter period of patent protection could lessen the value of our rights under any patents that we obtain and may decrease the revenues we derive from our patents. the united states patent laws were amended in 1995 to change the term of patent protection from 17 years from patent issuance to 20 years from the earliest effective filing date of the application. because the time from filing to issuance of biotechnology applications may be more than three years depending on the subject matter, a 20 year patent term from the filing date may result in substantially shorter patent protection. additionally, united states patent laws were amended in 2011 with the enactment of the america invents act and third parties are now able to challenge the validity of issued u.s. patents through various review proceedings; thus rendering the validity of u.s. patents more uncertain. we may be obligated to participate in review proceedings to determine the validity of our u.s. patents. we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these proceedings, the conduct of which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts and resources. if we are unsuccessful in these proceedings some or all of our claims in the patents may be narrowed or invalidated and the patent protection for our products and drug candidates in the united states could be substantially shortened. further, if all of the patents covering one of our products are invalidated, the fda could approve requests to manufacture a generic version of that product prior to the expiration date of those patents. other changes in the united states patent laws or changes in the interpretation of patent laws could diminish the value of our patents or narrow the scope of our patent protection. for example, the supreme court of the united states recently ruled that isolated dna sequences cannot be patented. although we no longer receive significant revenues generated from our former information products business, the majority of our gene patent portfolio from that business consists of patents on isolated dna sequences, and this ruling limits our ability to derive additional revenues from our gene patent portfolio. additionally, the supreme court recently resolved a split among the circuit courts of appeals regarding antitrust challenges to settlements of patent infringement lawsuits under the hatch waxman act between brand name drug companies and generic drug companies. the court rejected the scope of the patent test and ruled that settlements involving reverse payments from brand name drug companies to generic drug companies should be analyzed under the rule of reason. this ruling may create uncertainty and make it more difficult to settle patent litigation if a company seeking to manufacture a generic version of one of our products challenges the patents covering that product prior to the expiration date of those patents. international patent protection is particularly uncertain and costly, and our involvement in opposition proceedings in foreign countries may result in the expenditure of substantial sums and management resources. biotechnology and pharmaceutical patent law outside the united states is even more uncertain and costly than in the united states and is currently undergoing review and revision in many countries. further, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as united states laws. for example, certain countries do not grant patent claims that are directed to the treatment of humans. we have participated, and may in the future participate, in opposition proceedings to determine the validity of our foreign patents or our competitors foreign 43 table of contents patents, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts. for example, there is a patent opposition proceeding in india against our indian patent that covers the composition of matter and use of certain janus kinase inhibitors, including ruxolitinib phosphate, for the treatment of myeloid proliferative disorders, cancer, immune related diseases, skin disorders, and other diseases. successful challenges to our patent or other intellectual property rights through these proceedings could result in a loss of rights in the relevant jurisdiction and allow third parties to use our proprietary technologies without a license from us or our collaborators, which may also result in loss of future royalty payments. in addition, successful challenges may jeopardize or delay our ability to enter into new collaborations or commercialize potential products, which could harm our business and results of operations. risks relating to information technology significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of data security could adversely affect our business. our business is increasingly dependent on critical, complex, and interdependent information technology (it) systems, including internet-based systems, to support business processes as well as internal and external communications. the size and complexity of our it systems make us potentially vulnerable to it system breakdowns, malicious intrusion, and computer viruses, which may result in the impairment of our ability to operate our business effectively. in addition, our systems are potentially vulnerable to data security breaches whether by employees or others which may expose sensitive data to unauthorized persons. such data security breaches could lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or could lead to the public exposure of personal information (including sensitive personal information) of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, business partners and others. any such disruption or security breach could result in legal proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, regulatory penalties, disruptions to our operations and collaborations, and damage to our reputation, which could harm our business and results of operations. increasing use of social media could give rise to liability, breaches of data security, or reputational damage. we and our employees are increasingly utilizing social media tools as a means of communication both internally and externally. despite our efforts to monitor evolving social media communication guidelines and comply with applicable rules, there is risk that the use of social media by us or our employees to communicate about our products or business may cause us to be found in violation of applicable requirements. in addition, our employees may knowingly or inadvertently make use of social media in ways that may not comply with our social media policy or other legal or contractual requirements, which may give rise to liability, lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or result in public exposure of personal information of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. furthermore, negative posts or comments about us or our products in social media could seriously damage our reputation, brand image, and goodwill. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 66 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market ris k our investments in marketable securities, which are composed primarily of corporate debt securities, are subject to default, changes in credit rating and changes in market value. these investments are also subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market rate interest rates increase. as of december 31, 2015 , marketable securities were $ 186.3 million. due to the nature of these investments, if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as of december 31, 2015 , the decline in fair value would not be material. 66 table of contentsrisk factors 29 risk factors risks relating to commercialization of our products we depend heavily on our lead product, jakafi (ruxolitinib), which is marketed as jakavi outside the united states. if we are unable to successfully commercialize jakafi in its approved indications or to successfully obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize ruxolitinib for the treatment of additional indications, or if we are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, our business may be materially harmed. jakafi is our first and, currently, only product approved for sale in the united states. it was approved by the u.s. food and drug administration, or fda, in november 2011 for the treatment of patients with intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis and in december 2014 for the treatment of patients with polycythemia vera who have had an inadequate response to or are intolerant of hydroxyurea, which we refer to as uncontrolled polycythemia vera. although we have received regulatory approval for these indications, such approval does not guarantee future revenues. while we recently acquired exclusive rights to develop and commercialize iclusig in the european union, or eu, and other countries, we anticipate that jakafi product sales will continue to contribute a significant percentage of our total revenues over the next several years. the commercial success of jakafi and our ability to generate and maintain revenues from the sale of jakafi will depend on a number of factors, including: the number of patients with intermediate or high risk myelofibrosis or uncontrolled polycythemia vera who are diagnosed with the disease and the number of such patients that may be treated with jakafi; the acceptance of jakafi by patients and the healthcare community; whether physicians, patients and healthcare payors view jakafi as therapeutically effective and safe relative to cost and any alternative therapies; the ability to obtain and maintain sufficient coverage or reimbursement by third party payors; the ability of our third party manufacturers to manufacture jakafi in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality; the ability of our company and our third party providers to provide marketing and distribution support for jakafi; the label and promotional claims allowed by the fda; the maintenance of regulatory approval for the approved indications in the united states; and our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize ruxolitinib in the united states for additional indications. if we are not successful in commercializing jakafi in the united states, or are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, our business may be materially harmed and we may need to delay other drug discovery and development initiatives or even significantly curtail operations. in addition, our receipt of royalties under our collaboration agreement with novartis for sales of jakavi outside the united states will depend on factors similar to those listed above for jurisdictions outside the united states. 29 table of contents if we are unable to obtain, or maintain at anticipated levels, reimbursement for our products from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, our pricing may be affected or our product sales, results of operations or financial condition could be harmed. we may not be able to sell our products on a profitable basis or our profitability may be reduced if we are required to sell our products at lower than anticipated prices or reimbursement is unavailable or limited in scope or amount. jakafi and iclusig are expensive and almost all patients will require some form of third party coverage to afford their cost. our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected if we cannot depend on government and other third-party payors to defray the cost of our products to the patient. reimbursement systems in international markets vary significantly by country and by region, and reimbursement approvals must be obtained on a country-by-country basis. reimbursement in the eu must be negotiated on a country-by-country basis and in many countries the product cannot be commercially launched until reimbursement is approved. the timing to complete the negotiation process in each country is highly uncertain, and in some countries, we expect that it may exceed 12 months. risks related to pricing and reimbursement are described below under other risks relating to our business health care reform measures could impact the pricing and profitability of pharmaceuticals, and adversely affect the commercial viability of our drug candidates. our ability to generate revenues will be diminished if we are unable to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement from private insurers, government insurance programs or other third party payors of health care costs, which could be affected by recent healthcare reform legislation. if government and other third-party payors refuse to provide coverage and reimbursement with respect to our products, determine to provide a lower level of coverage and reimbursement than anticipated, or reduce previously approved levels of coverage and reimbursement, then our pricing or reimbursement for our products may be affected and our product sales, results of operations or financial condition could be harmed. we depend upon a limited number of specialty pharmacies and wholesalers for a significant portion of any revenues from jakafi, and the loss of, or significant reduction in sales to, any one of these specialty pharmacies or wholesalers could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. we sell jakafi primarily to specialty pharmacies and wholesalers. specialty pharmacies dispense jakafi to patients in fulfillment of prescriptions and wholesalers sell jakafi to hospitals and physician offices. we do not promote jakafi to specialty pharmacies or wholesalers, and they do not set or determine demand for jakafi. our ability to successfully commercialize jakafi will depend, in part, on the extent to which we are able to provide adequate distribution of jakafi to patients. although we have contracted with a number of specialty pharmacies and wholesalers, they are expected generally to carry a very limited inventory and may be reluctant to be part of our distribution network in the future if demand for the product does not increase. further, it is possible that these specialty pharmacies and wholesalers could decide to change their policies or fees, or both, at some time in the future. this could result in their refusal to carry smaller volume products such as jakafi, or lower margins or the need to find alternative methods of distributing our product. although we believe we can find alternative channels to distribute jakafi on relatively short notice, our revenue during that period of time may suffer and we may incur additional costs to replace any such specialty pharmacy or wholesaler. the loss of any large specialty pharmacy or wholesaler as part of our distribution network, a significant reduction in sales we make to specialty pharmacies or wholesalers, or any failure to pay for the products we have shipped to them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 30 table of contents if we are unable to establish and maintain effective sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or to enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will not be able to successfully commercialize our products. prior to our commercialization of jakafi, we had no experience selling and marketing drug products and with pricing and obtaining adequate third-party reimbursement for drug products. under our collaboration and license agreement with novartis, we have retained commercialization rights to jakafi in the united states. we have established commercial capabilities in the united states, but cannot guarantee that we will be able to enter into and maintain any marketing, distribution or third-party logistics agreements with third-party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. in connection with our recent acquisition from ariad pharmaceuticals, inc. we licensed rights to develop and commercialize iclusig in certain countries and we acquired the european sales, marketing and distribution operations of ariad. we may not be able to maintain those operations or retain their personnel or distribution arrangements. we may not be able to correctly judge the size and experience of the sales and marketing force and the scale of distribution capabilities necessary to successfully market and sell our products. establishing and maintaining sales, marketing and distribution capabilities are expensive and time consuming. competition for personnel with experience in sales and marketing can be high. our expenses associated with building and maintaining the sales force and distribution capabilities may be disproportional compared to the revenues we may be able to generate on sales of our products. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could lose our approval to market our products or be subject to other governmental enforcement activity. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain regulatory approval to market our products in the jurisdictions in which they are currently marketed. if we do not maintain our regulatory approval to market our products, in particular jakafi, our results of operations will be materially harmed. we and our collaborators, third-party manufacturers and suppliers are subject to rigorous and extensive regulation by the fda and other federal and state agencies as well as foreign governmental agencies. these regulations continue to apply after product marketing approval, and cover, among other things, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, advertising, promotion, risk mitigation, and adverse event reporting requirements. the commercialization of our products is subject to post-regulatory approval product surveillance, and our products may have to be withdrawn from the market or subject to restrictions if previously unknown problems occur. regulatory agencies may also require additional clinical trials or testing for our products, and our products may be recalled or may be subject to reformulation, additional studies, changes in labeling, warnings to the public and negative publicity. for example, from late 2013 through 2014, iclusig was subject to review by the european medicines agency, or ema, of the benefits and risks of iclusig to better understand the nature, frequency and severity of events obstructing the arteries or veins, the potential mechanism that leads to these side effects and whether there needed to be a revision in the dosing recommendation, patient monitoring and a risk management plan for iclusig. this review was completed in january 2015, with additional warnings in the product information but without any change in the approved indications. the ema could take additional actions in the future that reduce the commercial potential of iclusig. failure to comply with the laws and regulations administered by the fda or other agencies could result in: administrative and judicial sanctions, including warning letters; fines and other civil penalties; withdrawal of regulatory approval to market our products; interruption of production; operating restrictions; product recall or seizure; 31 table of contents injunctions; and criminal prosecution. the occurrence of any such event may have a material adverse effect on our business. if the use of our products harms patients, or is perceived to harm patients even when such harm is unrelated to our products, our regulatory approvals could be revoked or otherwise negatively impacted or we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. the testing of jakafi and iclusig, the manufacturing, marketing and sale of jakafi and the marketing and sale of iclusig expose us to product liability and other risks. side effects and other problems experienced by patients from the use of our products could: lessen the frequency with which physicians decide to prescribe our products; encourage physicians to stop prescribing our products to their patients who previously had been prescribed our products; cause serious harm to patients that may give rise to product liability claims against us; and result in our need to withdraw or recall our products from the marketplace. if our products are used by a wide patient population, new risks and side effects may be discovered, the rate of known risks or side effects may increase, and risks previously viewed as less significant could be determined to be significant. previously unknown risks and adverse effects of our products may also be discovered in connection with unapproved, or off-label, uses of our products. we are prohibited by law from promoting or in any way supporting or encouraging the promotion of our products for off-label uses, but physicians are permitted to use products for off-label purposes. in addition, we are studying and expect to continue to study jakafi in diseases for potential additional indications in controlled clinical settings, and independent investigators are doing so as well. in the event of any new risks or adverse effects discovered as new patients are treated for intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis or uncontrolled polycythemia vera and as jakafi is studied in or used by patients for off-label indications, regulatory authorities may delay or revoke their approvals, we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials, make changes in labeling of jakafi, reformulate jakafi or make changes and obtain new approvals. we may also experience a significant drop in the sales of jakafi, experience harm to our reputation and the reputation of jakafi in the marketplace or become subject to lawsuits, including class actions. any of these results could decrease or prevent sales of jakafi or substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing jakafi. similar results could occur with respect to our commercialization of iclusig. patients who have been enrolled in our clinical trials or who may use our products in the future often have severe and advanced stages of disease and known as well as unknown significant pre-existing and potentially life-threatening health risks. during the course of treatment, patients may suffer adverse events, including death, for reasons that may or may not be related to our products. such events could subject us to costly litigation, require us to pay substantial amounts of money to injured patients, delay, negatively impact or end our opportunity to receive or maintain regulatory approval to market our products, or require us to suspend or abandon our commercialization efforts. even in a circumstance in which we do not believe that an adverse event is related to our products, the investigation into the circumstance may be time consuming or inconclusive. these investigations may interrupt our sales efforts, impact and limit the type of regulatory approvals our products receive or maintain, or delay the regulatory approval process in other countries. factors similar to those listed above also apply to our collaboration partner novartis and to iclusig for jurisdictions outside the united states. 32 table of contents if we market our products in a manner that violates various laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. in addition to fda and related regulatory requirements, we are subject to health care fraud and abuse laws, such as the federal false claims act, the anti kickback provisions of the federal social security act, and other state and federal laws and regulations. federal and state anti kickback laws prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce, or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any health care item or service reimbursable under medicare, medicaid, or other federally or state financed health care programs. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities. although physicians are permitted, based on their medical judgment, to prescribe products for indications other than those approved by the fda, manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products for such off label uses. we market jakafi for intermediate or high risk myelofibrosis and uncontrolled polycythemia vera and provide promotional materials to physicians regarding the use of jakafi for these indications. although we believe that our promotional materials for physicians do not constitute off label promotion of jakafi, the fda or other agencies may disagree. if the fda or another agency determines that our promotional materials or other activities constitute off label promotion of jakafi, it could request that we modify our promotional materials or other activities or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. it is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they believe that the alleged improper promotion led to the submission and payment of claims for an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. even if it is later determined we are not in violation of these laws, we may be faced with negative publicity, incur significant expenses defending our position and have to divert significant management resources from other matters. the european union and member countries impose similar strict restrictions on the promotion and marketing of drug products. the off-label promotion of medicinal products is prohibited in the eu and in other territories. the promotion of medicinal products that are not subject to a marketing authorization is also prohibited in the eu. violations of the rules governing the promotion of medicinal products in the eu and in other territories could be penalized by administrative measures, fines and imprisonment. the majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. in recent years, several states and localities, including california, connecticut, the district of columbia, massachusetts, minnesota, nevada, new mexico, texas, vermont, and west virginia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. similar legislation is being considered in other states. additionally, as part of the patient protection and affordable care act, the federal government has enacted the physician payment sunshine provisions. the sunshine provisions require manufacturers to publicly report certain payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals. many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements are unclear. nonetheless, if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement action and fines and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity. see also other risks relating to our business if we fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory requirements affecting the health care industry, we could face increased costs, penalties and a loss of business below. competition for our products could harm our business and result in a decrease in our revenue. present and potential competitors for jakafi could include major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as specialty pharmaceutical firms. for example, gilead sciences, inc. has a drug candidate in phase iii clinical trials for the treatment of myelofibrosis. see other risks relating to our business we face significant competition for our drug discovery and development efforts, and if we do not compete effectively, our commercial opportunities will 33 table of contents be reduced or eliminated for a description of risks relating to this type of competition. in addition, jakafi could face competition from generic products. as a result of the drug price competition and patent term restoration act of 1984, commonly known as the hatch-waxman act, in the united states, generic manufacturers may seek approval of a generic version of an innovative pharmaceutical by filing with the fda an abbreviated new drug application, or anda. the hatch-waxman act provides significant incentives to generic manufacturers to challenge u.s. patents on successful innovative pharmaceutical products. in february 2016, we received a notice letter regarding an anda that requested approval to market a generic version of jakafi and purported to challenge patents covering ruxolitinib phosphate and its use that expire in 2028. there can be no assurance that our patents will be upheld or that any litigation in which we might engage with any such generic manufacturer would be successful in protecting jakafi exclusivity. the entry of a generic version of jakafi could result in a decrease in jakafi sales and materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. iclusig currently competes with existing therapies that are approved for the treatment of patients with chronic myeloid leukemia, or cml, who are resistant or intolerant to prior tyrosine kinase inhibitor, or tki, therapies, on the basis of, among other things, efficacy, cost, breadth of approved use and the safety and side-effect profile. in addition, a generic version of imatinib was launched in the united states in february 2016, and generic versions are expected to be launched in other markets. although we currently believe that generic versions of imatinib will not materially impact our commercialization of iclusig, given iclusig various indication statements globally that are currently focused on resistant or intolerant cml, we cannot be certain how physicians, payors, patients, regulatory authorities and other market participants will respond to the availability of generic versions of imatinib. other risks relating to our business we may be unsuccessful in our efforts to discover and develop drug candidates and commercialize drug products. none of our drug candidates, other than jakafi/jakavi, has received regulatory approval. our ability to discover and develop drug candidates and to commercialize additional drug products will depend on our ability to: hire and retain key employees; identify high quality therapeutic targets; identify potential drug candidates; develop products internally or license drug candidates from others; identify and enroll suitable human subjects, either in the united states or abroad, for our clinical trials; complete laboratory testing; commence, conduct and complete safe and effective clinical trials on humans; obtain and maintain necessary intellectual property rights to our products; obtain and maintain necessary regulatory approvals for our products, both in the united states and abroad; enter into arrangements with third parties to provide services or to manufacture our products on our behalf; deploy sales and marketing resources effectively or enter into arrangements with third parties to provide these functions in compliance with all applicable laws; obtain appropriate coverage and reimbursement levels for the cost of our products from governmental authorities, private health insurers and other third party payors; 34 table of contents lease facilities at reasonable rates to support our growth; and enter into arrangements with third parties to license and commercialize our products. we have limited experience with many of the activities listed above and may not be successful in discovering, developing, or commercializing additional drug products. discovery and development of drug candidates are expensive, uncertain and time consuming, and we do not know if our efforts will lead to discovery of any drug candidates that can be successfully developed and marketed. of the compounds or biologics that we identify as potential drug products or that we may in license from other companies, including potential products for which we are conducting clinical trials, only a few, if any, are likely to lead to successful drug development programs and commercialized drug products. we depend heavily on the success of our most advanced drug candidates. we might not be able to commercialize any of our drug candidates successfully, and we may spend significant time and money attempting to do so. we have invested significant resources in the development of our most advanced drug candidates. ruxolitinib recently entered into a pivotal phase ii clinical trial for the treatment of patients with steroid-refractory acute graft-versus-host disease and is in other clinical trials. epacadostat commenced phase iii clinical trials in late 2016. further, we have a number of drug candidates in phase i and phase ii clinical trials. our ability to generate product revenues will depend on the successful development and eventual commercialization of our most advanced drug candidates. we, or our collaborators or licensees, may decide to discontinue development of any or all of our drug candidates at any time for commercial, scientific or other reasons. for example, in early 2016, we decided to discontinue the studies of ruxolitinib in pancreatic cancer and solid tumors and incb 39110 in pancreatic cancer. if a product is developed but not approved or marketed, we may have spent significant amounts of time and money on it, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition as well as our business plans. if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates in the united states and foreign jurisdictions, we will not be permitted to commercialize products resulting from our research. in order to commercialize drug products in the united states, our drug candidates will have to obtain regulatory approval from the fda. satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years. to obtain regulatory approval, we must first show that our drug candidates are safe and effective for target indications through preclinical testing (animal testing) and clinical trials (human testing). preclinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes, and we do not know whether the fda will allow us to undertake clinical trials of any drug candidates in addition to our compounds currently in clinical trials. if regulatory approval of a product is granted, this approval will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which the product is demonstrated through clinical trials to be safe and effective. completion of clinical trials may take several years and failure may occur at any stage of testing. the length of time required varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the drug candidate. interim results of a preclinical test or clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results, and acceptable results in early clinical trials may not be repeated in later clinical trials. for example, a drug candidate that is successful at the preclinical level may cause harmful or dangerous side effects when tested at the clinical level. our rate of commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed, and our existing clinical trials may be stopped, due to many potential factors, including: the high degree of risk and uncertainty associated with drug development; our inability to formulate or manufacture sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials; variability in the number and types of patients available for each study; difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, resulting in incomplete data; unforeseen safety issues or side effects; 35 table of contents poor or unanticipated effectiveness of drug candidates during the clinical trials; or government or regulatory delays. data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretation, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. many companies in the pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industry, including our company, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving promising results in earlier clinical trials. in addition, regulatory authorities may refuse or delay approval as a result of other factors, such as changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development and regulatory agency review. for example, the fda has in the past required and could in the future require that we conduct additional trials of any of our drug candidates, which would result in delays. compounds or biologics developed by us or with or by our collaborators and licensees may not prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials and may not meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements needed to receive marketing approval. for example, in january 2016, a phase ii trial that was evaluating ruxolitinib in combination with regorafenib in patients with relapsed or refractory metastatic colorectal cancer and high c-reactive protein was stopped early after a planned analysis of interim efficacy data determined that the likelihood of the trial meeting its efficacy endpoint was insufficient. in addition, in february 2016, we made a decision to discontinue our janus 1 study, our janus 2 study, our other studies of ruxolitinib in colorectal, breast and lung cancer, and our study of incb39110 in pancreatic cancer after a planned analysis of interim efficacy data of janus 1 demonstrated that ruxolitinib plus capecitabine did not show a sufficient level of efficacy to warrant continuation. if clinical trials of any of our compounds or biologics are stopped for safety, efficacy or other reasons or fail to meet their respective endpoints, our overall development plans, business, prospects, expected operating results and financial condition could be materially harmed and the value of our company could be negatively affected. outside the united states, our ability to market a product is contingent upon receiving a marketing authorization from the appropriate regulatory authorities. this foreign regulatory approval process typically includes all of the risks associated with the fda approval process described above and may also include additional risks. the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country and may require us to perform additional testing and expend additional resources. approval by the fda does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or by the fda. health care reform measures could impact the pricing and profitability of pharmaceuticals, and adversely affect the commercial viability of our drug candidates. our ability to generate revenues will be diminished if we are unable to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement from private insurers, government insurance programs or other third party payors of health care costs, which could be affected by recent healthcare reform legislation. our ability to commercialize our drug candidates successfully will depend in part on the extent to which adequate reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatment are obtained from third party payors, such as private insurers, government insurance programs, including medicare and medicaid, health maintenance organizations (hmos) and other health care related organizations. in recent years, through legislative and regulatory actions, the federal government has made substantial changes to various payment systems under the medicare and other federal health care programs. comprehensive reforms to the u.s. healthcare system were recently enacted, including changes to the methods for, and amounts of, medicare reimbursement. these reforms could significantly reduce payments from medicare and medicaid. reforms or other changes to these payment systems, may change the availability, methods and rates of reimbursements from medicare, private insurers and other third-party payors for our drug candidates. some of these changes and proposed changes could result in reduced reimbursement rates or in eliminating dual sources of payment, which could reduce the price that we or any of our collaborators or licensees receive for any products, if commercialized, in the future, and which would adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. further federal and state proposals to regulate prices of pharmaceutical products and other health care reforms are possible, which could limit the prices that can be charged for any of our drug candidates and may further limit the commercial viability of our drug candidates. in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. if reimbursement for our products, if commercialized, is unavailable, limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our 36 table of contents business could be materially harmed. there may be future changes that result in reductions in current coverage and reimbursement levels for our drug candidates, and we cannot predict the scope of any future changes or the impact that those changes would have on our operations. third party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. also, the trend toward managed health care in the united states, the organizations for which could control or significantly influence the purchase of health care services and products, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may all result in lower prices for or rejection of our products. adoption of our drug candidates by the medical community may be limited without adequate reimbursement for our products. cost control initiatives may decrease coverage and payment levels for our drug candidates and, in turn, the price that we will be able to charge for any product, if commercialized. our drug candidates may not be considered cost effective, and coverage and reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis. we are unable to predict all changes to the coverage or reimbursement methodologies that will be applied by private or government payors to our drug candidates. the continuing efforts of third party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care, any denial of private or government payor coverage or inadequate reimbursement for our drug candidates could materially and adversely affect our business strategy, operations, future revenues and profitability, and the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers, collaborators and licensees and the availability of capital. we depend on our collaborators and licensees for the future development and commercialization of some of our drug candidates. conflicts may arise between our collaborators and licensees and us, or our collaborators and licensees may choose to terminate their agreements with us, which may adversely affect our business. we have licensed to novartis rights to ruxolitinib outside of the united states and worldwide rights to our c met inhibitor compounds and licensed to lilly worldwide rights to baricitinib. we have also licensed to pfizer our portfolio of ccr2 antagonist compounds. under the terms of our agreements with these collaborators, we have no or limited control over the further clinical development of these drug candidates and any revenues we may receive if these drug candidates receive regulatory approval and are commercialized will depend primarily on the development and commercialization efforts of others. conflicts may arise with our collaborators and licensees if they pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products either on their own or in collaboration with others as a means for developing treatments for the diseases that we have targeted. competing products and product opportunities may lead our collaborators and licensees to withdraw their support for our drug candidates. any failure of our collaborators and licensees to perform their obligations under our agreements with them or otherwise to support our drug candidates could negatively impact the development of our drug candidates, lead to our loss of potential revenues from product sales and milestones and delay our achievement, if any, of profitability. additionally, conflicts may arise if, among other things, there is a dispute about the achievement and payment of a milestone amount or the ownership of intellectual property that is developed during the course of a collaborative relationship. our existing collaborative and license agreements can be terminated by our collaborators and licensees for convenience, among other circumstances. if any of our collaborators or licensees terminates its agreement with us, or terminates its rights with respect to certain indications or drug candidates, we may not be able to find a new collaborator for them, and our business could be adversely affected. should an agreement be terminated before we have realized the benefits of the collaboration or license, our reputation could be harmed, we may not obtain revenues that we anticipated receiving, and our business could be adversely affected. 37 table of contents the success of our drug discovery and development efforts may depend on our ability to find suitable collaborators to fully exploit our capabilities. if we are unable to establish collaborations or if these future collaborations are unsuccessful in the development and commercialization of our drug candidates, our research, development and commercialization efforts may be unsuccessful, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. an important element of our business strategy is to enter into collaborative or license arrangements with other parties, under which we license our drug candidates to those parties for development and commercialization or under which we study our drug candidates in combination with other parties compounds or biologics. for example, in addition to our novartis, lilly and pfizer collaborations, we have entered into clinical study relationships with respect to epacadostat and are evaluating strategic relationships with respect to several of our other programs. however, because collaboration and license arrangements are complex to negotiate, we may not be successful in our attempts to establish these arrangements. also, we may not have drug candidates that are desirable to other parties, or we may be unwilling to license a drug candidate to a particular party because such party interested in it is a competitor or for other reasons. the terms of any such arrangements that we establish may not be favorable to us. alternatively, potential collaborators may decide against entering into an agreement with us because of our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position or for scientific, commercial or other reasons. if we are not able to establish collaboration or license arrangements, we may not be able to develop and commercialize a drug product, which could adversely affect our business and our revenues. we will likely not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators or licensees devote to our programs or drug candidates. if our collaborators or licensees prove difficult to work with, are less skilled than we originally expected, do not devote adequate resources to the program, pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products, or do not agree with our approach to development or manufacturing of the drug candidate, the relationship could be unsuccessful. if a business combination involving a collaborator or licensee and a third party were to occur, the effect could be to terminate or cause delays in development of a drug candidate. if we fail to enter into additional licensing agreements or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our business and operations might be adversely affected. in addition to establishing collaborative or license arrangements under which other parties license our drug candidates for development and commercialization or under which we study our drug candidates in combination with such parties compounds or biologics, we may explore opportunities to develop our clinical pipeline by in-licensing drug candidates that fit within our focus on oncology, such as our collaborations with agenus, merus n.v., and jiangsu hengrui medicine co., ltd., or explore additional opportunities to further develop and commercialize existing drug candidates in specific jurisdictions, such as our recent acquisition of the development and commercialization rights to iclusig in certain countries. we may be unable to enter into any additional in-licensing agreements because suitable drug candidates that are within our expertise may not be available to us on terms that are acceptable to us or because competitors with greater resources seek to in-license the same drug candidates. drug candidates that we would like to develop or commercialize may not be available to us because they are controlled by competitors who are unwilling to license the rights to the drug candidate to us. in addition, we may enter into license agreements that are unsuccessful and our business and operations might be adversely affected if we are unable to realize the expected economic benefits of a collaboration or other licensing arrangement, by the termination of a drug candidate and termination and winding down of the related license agreement, or due to other business or regulatory issues that may adversely affect a licensor ability to continue to perform its obligations under an in-license agreement. as discussed above under we depend on our collaborators and licensees for the future development and commercialization of some of our drug candidates. conflicts may arise between our collaborators and licensees and us, or our collaborators and licensees may choose to terminate their agreements with us, which may adversely affect our business, conflicts or other issues may arise with our licensors. those conflicts could result in delays in our plans to develop drug candidates or result in the expenditure of additional funds to resolve those conflicts that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we may also need to license drug delivery or other technology in order to continue to develop our drug candidates. if we are unable to enter into additional agreements to license drug candidates, drug delivery technology or other technology or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our research and development efforts could be adversely affected. 38 table of contents even if a drug candidate that we develop receives regulatory approval, we may decide not to commercialize it if we determine that commercialization of that product would require more money and time than we are willing to invest. even if any of our drug candidates receives regulatory approval, it could be subject to post regulatory surveillance, and may have to be withdrawn from the market or subject to restrictions if previously unknown problems occur. regulatory agencies may also require additional clinical trials or testing, and the drug product may be recalled or may be subject to reformulation, additional studies, changes in labeling, warnings to the public and negative publicity. as a result, we may not continue to commercialize a product even though it has obtained regulatory approval. further, we may decide not to continue to commercialize a product if the market does not accept the product because it is too expensive or because third parties such as insurance companies or medicare have not approved it for substantial reimbursement. in addition, we may decide not to continue to commercialize a product if competitors develop and commercialize similar or superior products or have proprietary rights that preclude us from ultimately marketing our products. any approved drug product that we bring to the market may not gain market acceptance by physicians, patients, healthcare payors and others in the medical community. even if we are successful in gaining regulatory approval of any of our drug candidates in addition to jakafi or acquire rights to approved drug products in addition to iclusig, we may not generate significant product revenues and we may not become profitable if these drug products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance. physicians may not recommend our drug products until longer term clinical data or other factors demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our drug products as compared to other alternative treatments. even if the clinical safety and efficacy of our drug products is established, physicians may elect not to prescribe these drug products for a variety of reasons, including the reimbursement policies of government and other third party payors and the effectiveness of our competitors in marketing their products. market acceptance of our drug products, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including: the willingness and ability of patients and the healthcare community to use our drug products; the ability to manufacture our drug products in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality and to offer our drug products for sale at competitive prices; the perception of patients and the healthcare community, including third party payors, regarding the safety, efficacy and benefits of our drug products compared to those of competing products or therapies; the label and promotional claims allowed by the fda; the pricing and reimbursement of our drug products relative to existing treatments; and marketing and distribution support for our drug products. we have limited capacity to conduct preclinical testing and clinical trials, and our resulting dependence on other parties could result in delays in and additional costs for our drug development efforts. we have limited internal resources and capacity to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials. as part of our development strategy, we often hire clinical research organizations, or cros, to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials for drug candidates. if the cros that we hire to perform our preclinical testing and clinical trials do not meet deadlines, do not follow proper procedures, or a conflict arises between us and our cros, our preclinical testing and clinical trials may take longer than expected, may cost more, may be delayed or may be terminated. if we were forced to find a replacement entity to perform any of our preclinical testing or clinical trials, we may not be able to find a suitable entity on favorable terms, or at all. even if we were able to find another company to perform a preclinical test or clinical trial, the delay in the test or trial may result in significant additional expenditures. events such as these may result in delays 39 table of contents in our obtaining regulatory approval for our drug candidates or our ability to commercialize our products and could result in increased expenditures that would adversely affect our operating results. we face significant competition for our drug discovery and development efforts, and if we do not compete effectively, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated. the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. our drug discovery and development efforts may target diseases and conditions that are already subject to existing therapies or that are being developed by our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, more experience in completing preclinical testing and clinical trials, and formulation, marketing and manufacturing capabilities. as a result of these resources, our competitors may develop drug products that render our products obsolete or noncompetitive by developing more effective drugs, developing their products more efficiently or pricing their products more competitively. our ability to develop competitive products would be limited if our competitors succeeded in obtaining regulatory approvals for drug candidates more rapidly than we were able to or in obtaining patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limited our drug development efforts. any drug products resulting from our research and development efforts, or from our joint efforts with collaborators or licensees, might not be able to compete successfully with our competitors existing and future products, or obtain regulatory approval in the united states or elsewhere. the development of products or processes by our competitors with significant advantages over those that we are developing could harm our future revenues and profitability. our reliance on other parties to manufacture our drug products and drug candidates could result in a short supply of the drugs, delays in clinical trials or drug development, increased costs, and withdrawal or denial of a regulatory authority approval. we do not currently operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of jakafi and our other drug candidates or for iclusig. we currently hire third parties to manufacture the raw materials, active pharmaceutical ingredient, or api, and finished drug product of jakafi and our other drug candidates for clinical trials. under our license agreement with ariad, we receive our supply of iclusig from ariad. in addition, we expect to continue to rely on third parties for the manufacture of commercial supplies of raw materials, api and finished drug product for any drugs that we successfully develop. we also hire third parties to package and label the finished product. the fda requires that the raw materials, api and finished product for jakafi and our other drug candidates be manufactured according to its current good manufacturing practices regulations and regulatory authorities in other countries have similar requirements. there are only a limited number of manufacturers that comply with these requirements. failure to comply with current good manufacturing practices and the applicable regulatory requirements of other countries in the manufacture of our drug candidates and products could result in the fda or a foreign regulatory authority halting our clinical trials, withdrawing or denying regulatory approval of our drug product, enforcing product recalls or other enforcement actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of our drug candidates or any drug products we may develop if our designated manufacturers do not have the capacity or capability to manufacture them according to our schedule and specifications. manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, especially in scaling up initial production. these problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control and assurance and shortages of qualified personnel. in addition, we may not be able to arrange for our drug candidates or any drug products that we may develop to be manufactured by one of these parties on reasonable terms, if at all. we generally have a single source or a limited number of suppliers that are qualified to supply each of the api and finished product of jakafi and our other drug candidates and, in the case of jakafi, we only have a single source for its raw materials. if any of these suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to supply us with raw materials, api or finished product that complies with applicable regulatory requirements, we could incur significant delays in our clinical trials or interruption of commercial supply that could have a material adverse effect on our business. if we have promised delivery of a drug candidate or drug product and are unable to meet the delivery requirement due to manufacturing difficulties, our development programs could be delayed, we may have to expend additional sums in order to ensure that manufacturing capacity is available when we need it even if we do not use all of the manufacturing capacity, and our business and operating results could be harmed. 40 table of contents we may not be able to adequately manage and oversee the manufacturers we choose, they may not perform as agreed or they may terminate their agreements with us. foreign manufacturing approval processes typically include all of the risks associated with the fda approval process for manufacturing and may also include additional risks. two of our collaborations involve the manufacture of antibodies. under our collaboration with agenus, agenus had primary responsibility for manufacturing activities, including selecting and monitoring third-party manufacturers. under the february 2017 amendment to our collaboration agreement, we assumed primary responsibility for manufacturing activities, including selecting and monitoring third party manufacturers, of all products from royalty-bearing programs under the collaboration. under our collaboration with hengrui, hengrui currently has primary responsibility for manufacturing activities, and we are in the process of transferring manufacturing activities to a third party contract manufacturing organization. manufacturing antibodies and products containing antibodies is a more complex process than manufacturing small molecule drugs and subject to additional risks. the process of manufacturing antibodies and products containing antibodies is highly susceptible to product loss due to contamination, equipment failure or improper installation or operation of equipment, vendor or operator error, inconsistency in yields, variability in product characteristics, and difficulties in scaling the production process. even minor deviations from normal manufacturing processes could result in reduced production yields, product defects and other supply disruptions. if microbial, viral or other contaminations are discovered in our product candidates or in the manufacturing facilities in which our product candidates are made, such manufacturing facilities may need to be closed for an extended period of time to investigate and remedy the contamination. if we fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory requirements affecting the health care industry, we could face increased costs, penalties and a loss of business. our activities, and the activities of our collaborators, partners and third party providers, are subject to extensive government regulation and oversight both in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions. the fda and comparable agencies in other jurisdictions directly regulate many of our most critical business activities, including the conduct of preclinical and clinical studies, product manufacturing, advertising and promotion, product distribution, adverse event reporting and product risk management. states increasingly have been placing greater restrictions on the marketing practices of healthcare companies. in addition, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been the target of lawsuits and investigations alleging violations of government regulations, including claims asserting submission of incorrect pricing information, impermissible off label promotion of pharmaceutical products, payments intended to influence the referral of federal or state healthcare business, submission of false claims for government reimbursement, antitrust violations, violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and similar anti bribery or anti corruption laws, or violations related to environmental matters. violations of governmental regulation may be punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in government programs, including medicare and medicaid. in addition to penalties for violation of laws and regulations, we could be required to repay amounts we received from government payors, or pay additional rebates and interest if we are found to have miscalculated the pricing information we have submitted to the government. we cannot ensure that our compliance controls, policies, and procedures will in every instance protect us from acts committed by our employees, collaborators, partners or third party providers that would violate the laws or regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate. whether or not we have complied with the law, an investigation into alleged unlawful conduct could increase our expenses, damage our reputation, divert management time and attention and adversely affect our business. as our drug discovery and development operations are conducted at our headquarters in wilmington, delaware, the loss of access to this facility would negatively impact our business. our facility in wilmington, delaware is our headquarters and is also where we conduct all of our drug discovery, research, development and marketing activities. in addition, natural disasters or actions of activists opposed to aspects of pharmaceutical research may disrupt our experiments or our ability to access or use our facility. the loss of access to or use of our wilmington, delaware, facility, either on a temporary or permanent basis would result in an interruption of our business and, consequently, would adversely affect our overall business. 41 table of contents we depend on key employees in a competitive market for skilled personnel, and the loss of the services of any of our key employees or our inability to attract and retain additional personnel would affect our ability to expand our drug discovery and development programs and achieve our objectives. we are highly dependent on the members of our executive management team and principal members of our commercial, development, medical, operations and scientific staff. we experience intense competition for qualified personnel. our future success also depends in part on the continued service of our executive management team and key personnel and our ability to recruit, train and retain essential personnel for our drug discovery and development programs, and for our medical affairs and commercialization activities. if we lose the services of any of these people or if we are unable to recruit sufficient qualified personnel, our research and product development goals, and our commercialization efforts could be delayed or curtailed. we do not maintain key person insurance on any of our employees. if we fail to manage our growth effectively, our ability to develop and commercialize products could suffer. we expect that if our drug discovery efforts continue to generate drug candidates, our clinical drug candidates continue to progress in development, and we continue to build our development, medical and commercial organizations, we will require significant additional investment in personnel, management and resources. our ability to achieve our research, development and commercialization objectives depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands and expand our internal organization, systems, controls and facilities to accommodate additional anticipated growth. if we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business could be harmed and our ability to execute our business strategy could suffer. we may acquire businesses or assets, form joint ventures or make investments in other companies that may be unsuccessful, divert our management attention and harm our operating results and prospects. as part of our business strategy, we may pursue additional acquisitions of what we believe to be complementary businesses or assets or seek to enter into joint ventures. we also may pursue strategic alliances in an effort to leverage our existing infrastructure and industry experience to expand our product offerings or distribution, or make investments in other companies. for example, in june 2016, we completed the acquisition of the european operations of ariad and obtained the exclusive license to develop and commercialize iclusig in europe and other countries. the success of our acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances and investments will depend on our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and, in the case of acquisitions, integrate those transactions and, if necessary, obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing to fund those transactions. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, joint venture, strategic alliance or investment. we may not be able to integrate acquisitions successfully into our existing business, maintain the key business relationships of businesses we acquire, or retain key personnel of an acquired business, and we could assume unknown or contingent liabilities or incur unanticipated expenses. integration of acquired companies or businesses also may require management resources that otherwise would be available for ongoing development of our existing business. any acquisitions or investments made by us also could result in significant write-offs or the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could harm our operating results. for example, in the years ended december 31, 2016 and december 31, 2015, we recorded unrealized losses related to our investment in agenus inc., and we may in the future experience additional losses related to our investments. in addition, if we choose to issue shares of our stock as consideration for any acquisition, dilution to our stockholders could result. ariad recently announced its pending acquisition by takeda pharmaceutical company limited. our license agreement with ariad contains a limited buy-back option for the acquirer of ariad to reacquire the rights to iclusig in exchange for repayment to us of our initial purchase price and any milestone payments and development costs previously paid by us to ariad, together with an additional payment based upon the last 12 months of iclusig sales booked by us and potential royalties. if the buy-back option is exercised, the buy-back will not become effective until june 1, 2019. we do not know whether the buy-back option will be exercised. if the buy-back option is exercised, we will not recognize any further product revenues from iclusig from the effective date of the buy-back, and it is possible that we will have an established european commercial infrastructure without any products to sell as of that effective date. 42 table of contents risks associated with the expansion of our operations outside of the united states could adversely affect our business. our acquisition of ariad european operations significantly expanded our operations in europe, and we plan to continue to expand our operations and conduct certain development activities outside of the united states. we have limited experience with conducting activities outside of the united states. international operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous additional risks, including: multiple, conflicting and changing laws and regulations such as tax laws, privacy regulations, tariffs, export and import restrictions, employment, immigration and labor laws, regulatory requirements, and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and difficulties in connection with assimilating and integrating the ariad operations and personnel, and any other operations and personnel we might acquire into our company; risks associated with obtaining and maintaining, or the failure to obtain or maintain, regulatory approvals for the sale or use of our products in various countries; complexities associated with managing government payor systems, multiple payor reimbursement regimes or patient self pay systems; financial risks, such as longer payment cycles, difficulty obtaining financing in foreign markets, difficulty enforcing contracts and intellectual property rights, difficulty collecting accounts receivable and exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; general political and economic conditions in the countries in operate, including terrorism and political unrest, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions, and uncertainties associated with the future relationship between the united kingdom and the european union; and regulatory and compliance risks that relate to maintaining accurate information and control over activities that may fall within the purview of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, its books and records provisions or its anti bribery provisions, or similar anti bribery or anti corruption laws and regulations. although we conducted due diligence of ariad european operations prior to the acquisition, we may discover or identify deficiencies or non-compliance with such laws and regulations as we complete the integration of the ariad business and conduct our european operations. any of the risks described above, if encountered, could significantly increase our costs of operating internationally, prevent us from operating in certain jurisdictions, or otherwise significantly harm our future international expansion and operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we could face substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products and our results of operations could be harmed. in addition to the risks described above under risks relating to commercialization of our products if the use of our products harms patients, or is perceived to harm patients even when such harm is unrelated to our products, our regulatory approvals could be revoked or otherwise negatively impacted or we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims, the conduct of clinical trials of medical products that are intended for human use entails an inherent risk of product liability. if any product that we or any of our collaborators or licensees develops causes or is alleged to cause injury during clinical trials or commercialization, we may be held liable. if we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities, including substantial damages to be paid to the plaintiffs and legal costs, or we may be required to limit further development and commercialization of our products. additionally, any product liability lawsuit could cause injury to our reputation, participants and investigators to withdraw 43 table of contents from clinical trials, and potential collaborators or licensees to seek other partners, any of which could impact our results of operations. our product liability insurance policy may not fully cover our potential liabilities. in addition, we may determine that we should increase our coverage, and this insurance may be prohibitively expensive to us or our collaborators or licensees and may not fully cover our potential liabilities. our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the development or commercialization of our drug candidates and products. because our activities involve the use of hazardous materials, we may be subject to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials that could be time consuming and costly. we are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the use, handling, storage and disposal of regulated substances and the health and safety of our employees. our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous and radioactive materials and biological waste resulting in the production of hazardous waste products. we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. if any injury or contamination results from our use or the use by our collaborators or licensees of these materials, we may be sued and our liability may exceed our insurance coverage and our total assets. further, we may be required to indemnify our collaborators or licensees against all damages and other liabilities arising out of our development activities or products produced in connection with these collaborations or licenses. compliance with the applicable environmental and workplace laws and regulations is expensive. future changes to environmental, health, workplace and safety laws could cause us to incur additional expense or may restrict our operations or impair our research, development and production efforts. risks relating to our financial results we may incur losses in the future and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. we had net losses from inception in 1991 through 1996 and in 1999 through december 31, 2014. because of those losses, we had an accumulated deficit of $1.7 billion as of december 31, 2016. we intend to continue to spend significant amounts on our efforts to discover and develop drugs. as a result, we may incur losses in future periods. we anticipate that our drug discovery and development efforts and related expenditures will increase as we focus on the studies, including preclinical tests and clinical trials prior to seeking regulatory approval, that are required before we can sell a drug product. the development of drug products will require us to spend significant funds on research, development, testing, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing and marketing. to date, we do not have any drug products that have generated significant revenues other than from sales of jakafi and we cannot assure you that we will generate significant revenues from the drug candidates that we license or develop, including iclusig, for several years, if ever. we cannot be certain whether or when we will achieve profitability because of the significant uncertainties relating to our ability to generate commercially successful drug products. even if we are successful in obtaining regulatory approvals for manufacturing and commercializing drug products in addition to jakafi and iclusig, we may incur losses if our drug products do not generate significant revenues. if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability. 44 table of contents we may need additional capital in the future. if we are unable to generate sufficient funds from operations, the capital markets may not permit us to raise additional capital at the time that we require it, which could result in limitations on our research and development or commercialization efforts or the loss of certain of our rights in our technologies or drug candidates. our future funding requirements will depend on many factors and we anticipate that we may need to raise additional capital to fund our business plan and research and development efforts going forward and to repay our indebtedness. additional factors that may affect our future funding requirements include: the amount of revenues generated from our business activities; any changes in the breadth of our research and development programs; the results of research and development, preclinical testing and clinical trials conducted by us or our current or future collaborators or licensees, if any; our exercise of any co development options with collaborators that may require us to fund future development; the acquisition of businesses, technologies, or drug candidates, or the licensing of technologies or drug candidates, if any; costs for future facility requirements; our ability to maintain and establish new corporate relationships and research collaborations; competing technological and market developments; the time and costs involved in filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent and intellectual property claims; the receipt of contingent licensing or milestone fees or royalties on product sales from our current or future collaborative and license arrangements, if established; and the timing of regulatory approvals, if any. if we require additional capital at a time when investment in companies such as ours, or in the marketplace generally, is limited due to the then prevailing market or other conditions, we may have to scale back our operations, eliminate one or more of our research or development programs, or attempt to obtain funds by entering into an agreement with a collaborator or licensee that would result in terms that are not favorable to us or relinquishing our rights in certain of our proprietary technologies or drug candidates. if we are unable to raise funds at the time that we desire or at any time thereafter on acceptable terms, we may not be able to continue to develop our drug candidates. the sale of equity or additional convertible debt securities in the future may be dilutive to our stockholders, and debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that could restrict our operations or our ability to incur further indebtedness. 45 table of contents we have a large amount of debt and our debt service obligations may prevent us from taking actions that we would otherwise consider to be in our best interests. as of december 31, 2016, the aggregate principal amount of our total consolidated debt was $749.8 million and our stockholders equity was $419.5 million. our substantial leverage could have significant negative consequences for our future operations, including: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital and research and development expenditures, and general corporate purposes; requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our expected cash flow or our existing cash to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of our cash available for other purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures and research and development expenditures; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; or placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. we may not generate sufficient cash flow from our operations in the future to enable us to meet our anticipated fixed charges, including our obligations with respect to our outstanding convertible senior notes. as of december 31, 2016, $375.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 0.375% convertible senior notes due 2018 was outstanding and due in november 2018. annual interest payments for our 0.375% convertible senior notes through 2018, assuming that none of these notes are converted, repurchased or exchanged, are $1.4 million. as of december 31, 2016, $374.8 million aggregate principal amount of our 1.25% convertible senior notes due 2020 was outstanding and due in november 2020. annual interest payments for our 1.25% convertible senior notes through 2020, assuming that none of these notes are converted, repurchased or exchanged, are $4.7 million. if we are unable to generate cash from our operations or raise additional cash through financings sufficient to meet the remaining obligations under our convertible senior notes, we will need to use existing cash or liquidate marketable securities in order to fund these obligations, which may delay or curtail our research, development and commercialization programs. our marketable securities and long term investments are subject to risks that could adversely affect our overall financial position. we invest our cash in accordance with an established internal policy and customarily in instruments, corporate bonds and money market funds which historically have been highly liquid and carried relatively low risk. in recent periods, similar types of investments and money market funds have experienced losses in value or liquidity issues that differ from their historical pattern. should a portion of our cash or marketable securities lose value or have their liquidity impaired, it could adversely affect our overall financial position by imperiling our ability to fund our operations and forcing us to seek additional financing sooner than we would otherwise. such financing, if available, may not be available on commercially attractive terms. as discussed under other risks relating to our business we may acquire businesses or assets, form joint ventures or make investments in other companies that may be unsuccessful, divert our management attention and harm our operating results and prospects, any investments that we may make in companies with which we have strategic alliances, such as agenus and merus, could result in our recognition of losses on those investments. in addition, to the extent we may seek to sell or otherwise monetize those investments, we may not be able to do so at our desired price or valuation levels, or at all, due to the limited liquidity of some or all of those investments. 46 table of contents any loss in value of our long term investments could adversely affect our financial position on the consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of operations. our current revenues are derived from jakafi and iclusig product sales, jakavi product royalties, collaborations and from licensing our intellectual property. if we are unable to achieve milestones, develop products or renew or enter into new collaborations, our revenues may decrease, and future milestone and royalty payments may not contribute significantly to revenues for several years, and may never result in revenues. we derived substantially all of our revenues for the year ended december 31, 2016 from jakafi and iclusig product revenues, jakavi product royalties and our collaborations and licensing our intellectual property to others. future revenues from research and development collaborations depend upon continuation of the collaborations, the achievement of milestones and royalties we earn from any future products developed from our research. if we are unable to successfully achieve milestones or our collaborators fail to develop successful products, we will not earn the future revenues contemplated under our collaborative agreements. risks relating to intellectual property and legal matters if we are subject to arbitration, litigation and infringement claims, they could be costly and disrupt our drug discovery and development efforts. the technology that we use to make and develop our drug products, the technology that we incorporate in our products, and the products we are developing may be subject to claims that they infringe the patents or proprietary rights of others. the success of our drug discovery and development efforts will also depend on our ability to develop new compounds, drugs and technologies without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. we are aware of patents and patent applications filed in certain countries claiming intellectual property relating to some of our drug discovery targets and drug candidates. while the validity of issued patents, patentability of pending patent applications and applicability of any of them to our programs are uncertain, if any of these patents are asserted against us or if we choose to license any of these patents, our ability to commercialize our products could be harmed or the potential return to us from any product that may be successfully commercialized could be diminished. from time to time we have received, and we may in the future receive, notices from third parties offering licenses to technology or alleging patent, trademark, or copyright infringement, claims regarding trade secrets or other contract claims. receipt of these notices could result in significant costs as a result of the diversion of the attention of management from our drug discovery and development efforts. parties sending these notices may have brought and in the future may bring litigation against us or seek arbitration relating to contract claims. we may be involved in future lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights or contract violations. in addition, litigation or other legal proceedings may be necessary to: assert claims of infringement; enforce our patents or trademarks; protect our trade secrets or know how; or determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. we may be unsuccessful in defending or pursuing these lawsuits, claims or other legal proceedings. regardless of the outcome, litigation or other legal proceedings can be very costly and can divert management efforts. an adverse determination may subject us to significant liabilities or require us or our collaborators or licensees to seek licenses to other parties patents or proprietary rights. we or our collaborators or licensees may also be restricted or prevented from manufacturing or selling a drug or other product that we or they develop. further, we or our future collaborators or licensees 47 table of contents may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. if we are unable to develop non infringing technology or license technology on a timely basis or on reasonable terms, our business could be harmed. we may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our proprietary information, which may result in its unauthorized use, a loss of revenue under a collaboration agreement or loss of sales to generic versions of our products or otherwise reduce our ability to compete in developing and commercializing products. our business and competitive position depends in significant part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology, including any drug products that we create. despite our efforts to protect this information, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. for example, one of our collaborators may disclose proprietary information pertaining to our drug discovery efforts. in addition, while we have filed numerous patent applications with respect to ruxolitinib and our drug candidates in the united states and in foreign countries, our patent applications may fail to result in issued patents. in addition, because patent applications can take several years to issue as patents, there may be pending patent applications of others that may later issue as patents that cover some aspect of ruxolitinib and our drug candidates. our existing patents and any future patents we may obtain may not be broad enough to protect our products or all of the potential uses of our products, or otherwise prevent others from developing competing products or technologies. in addition, our patents may be challenged and invalidated or may fail to provide us with any competitive advantages if, for example, others were first to invent or first to file a patent application for the technologies and products covered by our patents. as noted above under risks relating to commercialization of our products competition for our products could potentially harm our business and result in a decrease in our revenue, a potential generic drug company competitor has challenged certain patents relating to jakafi. additionally, when we do not control the prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of certain important intellectual property, such as a drug candidate in licensed to us or subject to a collaboration with a third party, the protection of the intellectual property rights may not be in our hands. if we do not control the intellectual property rights in licensed to us with respect to a drug candidate and the entity that controls the intellectual property rights does not adequately protect those rights, our rights may be impaired, which may impact our ability to develop, market and commercialize the in licensed drug candidate. our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate, and our competitors may: independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, products and techniques; otherwise gain access to our proprietary information; or design around patents issued to us or our other intellectual property. we pursue a policy of having our employees, consultants and advisors execute proprietary information and invention agreements when they begin working for us. however, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. if we fail to maintain trade secret and patent protection, our potential, future revenues may be decreased. if the effective term of our patents is decreased due to changes in the united states patent laws or if we need to refile some of our patent applications, the value of our patent portfolio and the revenues we derive from it may be decreased. the value of our patents depends in part on their duration. a shorter period of patent protection could lessen the value of our rights under any patents that we obtain and may decrease the revenues we derive from our patents. the united states patent laws were amended in 1995 to change the term of patent protection from 17 years from patent issuance to 20 years from the earliest effective filing date of the application. because the time from filing to issuance of biotechnology applications may be more than three years depending on the subject matter, a 20 year patent term from the filing date may result in substantially shorter patent protection. additionally, united states patent laws were amended in 2011 with the enactment of the america invents act and third parties are now able to challenge the validity of issued u.s. patents through various review proceedings; thus 48 table of contents rendering the validity of u.s. patents more uncertain. we may be obligated to participate in review proceedings to determine the validity of our u.s. patents. we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these proceedings, the conduct of which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts and resources. if we are unsuccessful in these proceedings some or all of our claims in the patents may be narrowed or invalidated and the patent protection for our products and drug candidates in the united states could be substantially shortened. further, if all of the patents covering one of our products are invalidated, the fda could approve requests to manufacture a generic version of that product prior to the expiration date of those patents. other changes in the united states patent laws or changes in the interpretation of patent laws could diminish the value of our patents or narrow the scope of our patent protection. for example, the supreme court of the united states recently ruled that isolated dna sequences cannot be patented. although we no longer receive significant revenues generated from our former information products business, the majority of our gene patent portfolio from that business consists of patents on isolated dna sequences, and this ruling limits our ability to derive additional revenues from our gene patent portfolio. additionally, the supreme court recently resolved a split among the circuit courts of appeals regarding antitrust challenges to settlements of patent infringement lawsuits under the hatch waxman act between brand name drug companies and generic drug companies. the court rejected the scope of the patent test and ruled that settlements involving reverse payments from brand name drug companies to generic drug companies should be analyzed under the rule of reason. this ruling may create uncertainty and make it more difficult to settle patent litigation if a company seeking to manufacture a generic version of one of our products challenges the patents covering that product prior to the expiration date of those patents. international patent protection is particularly uncertain and costly, and our involvement in opposition proceedings in foreign countries may result in the expenditure of substantial sums and management resources. biotechnology and pharmaceutical patent law outside the united states is even more uncertain and costly than in the united states and is currently undergoing review and revision in many countries. further, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as united states laws. for example, certain countries do not grant patent claims that are directed to the treatment of humans. we have participated, and may in the future participate, in opposition proceedings to determine the validity of our foreign patents or our competitors foreign patents, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts. for example, there is a patent opposition proceeding in india against our indian patent that covers the composition of matter and use of certain janus kinase inhibitors, including ruxolitinib phosphate, for the treatment of myeloid proliferative disorders, cancer, immune related diseases, skin disorders, and other diseases. successful challenges to our patent or other intellectual property rights through these proceedings could result in a loss of rights in the relevant jurisdiction and allow third parties to use our proprietary technologies without a license from us or our collaborators, which may also result in loss of future royalty payments. in addition, successful challenges may jeopardize or delay our ability to enter into new collaborations or commercialize potential products, which could harm our business and results of operations. risks relating to information technology significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of data security could adversely affect our business. our business is increasingly dependent on critical, complex, and interdependent information technology (it) systems, including internet-based systems, to support business processes as well as internal and external communications. the size and complexity of our it systems make us potentially vulnerable to it system breakdowns, malicious intrusion, and computer viruses, which may result in the impairment of our ability to operate our business effectively. in addition, our systems are potentially vulnerable to data security breaches whether by employees or others which may expose sensitive data to unauthorized persons. such data security breaches could lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or could lead to the public exposure of personal information (including sensitive personal information) of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, business partners and others. any such disruption or security breach could result in legal proceedings, liability under laws that protect the 49 table of contents privacy of personal information, regulatory penalties, disruptions to our operations and collaborations, and damage to our reputation, which could harm our business and results of operations. increasing use of social media could give rise to liability, breaches of data security, or reputational damage. we and our employees are increasingly utilizing social media tools as a means of communication both internally and externally. despite our efforts to monitor evolving social media communication guidelines and comply with applicable rules, there is risk that the use of social media by us or our employees to communicate about our products or business may cause us to be found in violation of applicable requirements. in addition, our employees may knowingly or inadvertently make use of social media in ways that may not comply with our social media policy or other legal or contractual requirements, which may give rise to liability, lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or result in public exposure of personal information of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. furthermore, negative posts or comments about us or our products in social media could seriously damage our reputation, brand image, and goodwill. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 75 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market ris k our investments in marketable securities, which are composed of corporate debt securities and u.s. government securities, are subject to default, changes in credit rating and changes in market value. these investments are also subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market rate interest rates increase. as of december 31, 2016, marketable securities were $156.2 million. due to the nature of these investments, if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as of december 31, 2016, the decline in fair value would not be material. 75 table of contentsrisk factors 28 risk factors risks relating to commercialization of our products we depend heavily on our lead product, jakafi (ruxolitinib), which is marketed as jakavi outside the united states. if we are unable to successfully commercialize jakafi in its approved indications or to successfully obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize ruxolitinib for the treatment of additional indications, or if we are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, our business may be materially harmed. jakafi is our first and, currently, only product approved for sale in the united states. it was approved by the u.s. food and drug administration, or fda, in november 2011 for the treatment of patients with intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis and in december 2014 for the treatment of patients with polycythemia vera who have had an inadequate response to or are intolerant of hydroxyurea, which we refer to as uncontrolled polycythemia vera. although we have received regulatory approval for these indications, such approval does not guarantee future revenues. while in june 2016 we acquired exclusive rights to develop and commercialize iclusig in the european union, or eu, and other countries, 28 table of contents we anticipate that jakafi product sales will continue to contribute a significant percentage of our total revenues over the next several years. the commercial success of jakafi and our ability to generate and maintain revenues from the sale of jakafi will depend on a number of factors, including: the number of patients with intermediate or high risk myelofibrosis or uncontrolled polycythemia vera who are diagnosed with the disease and the number of such patients that may be treated with jakafi; the acceptance of jakafi by patients and the healthcare community; whether physicians, patients and healthcare payors view jakafi as therapeutically effective and safe relative to cost and any alternative therapies; the ability to obtain and maintain sufficient coverage or reimbursement by third party payors; the ability of our third party manufacturers to manufacture jakafi in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality; the ability of our company and our third party providers to provide marketing and distribution support for jakafi; the label and promotional claims allowed by the fda; the maintenance of regulatory approval for the approved indications in the united states; and our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize ruxolitinib in the united states for additional indications. if we are not successful in commercializing jakafi in the united states, or are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, our business may be materially harmed and we may need to delay other drug discovery and development initiatives or even significantly curtail operations. in addition, our receipt of royalties under our collaboration agreement with novartis for sales of jakavi outside the united states will depend on factors similar to those listed above for jurisdictions outside the united states. if we are unable to obtain, or maintain at anticipated levels, reimbursement for our products from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, our pricing may be affected or our product sales, results of operations or financial condition could be harmed. we may not be able to sell our products on a profitable basis or our profitability may be reduced if we are required to sell our products at lower than anticipated prices or reimbursement is unavailable or limited in scope or amount. jakafi and iclusig are expensive and almost all patients will require some form of third-party coverage to afford their cost. our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected if we cannot depend on government and other third-party payors to defray the cost of our products to the patient. reimbursement systems in international markets vary significantly by country and by region, and reimbursement approvals must be obtained on a country-by-country basis. reimbursement in the eu must be negotiated on a country-by-country basis and in many countries the product cannot be commercially launched until reimbursement is approved. the timing to complete the negotiation process in each country is highly uncertain, and in some countries, we expect that it may exceed 12 months. risks related to pricing and reimbursement are described below under other risks relating to our business health care reform measures could impact the pricing and profitability of pharmaceuticals, and adversely affect the commercial viability of our products and drug candidates. our ability to generate revenues will be diminished if we are unable to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement from private insurers, government insurance programs or other third-party payors of health care costs, which could be affected by current and potential healthcare reform legislation. if government and other third-party payors refuse to provide 29 table of contents coverage and reimbursement with respect to our products, determine to provide a lower level of coverage and reimbursement than anticipated, or reduce previously approved levels of coverage and reimbursement, then our pricing or reimbursement for our products may be affected and our product sales, results of operations or financial condition could be harmed. we depend upon a limited number of specialty pharmacies and wholesalers for a significant portion of any revenues from jakafi, and the loss of, or significant reduction in sales to, any one of these specialty pharmacies or wholesalers could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. we sell jakafi primarily to specialty pharmacies and wholesalers. specialty pharmacies dispense jakafi to patients in fulfillment of prescriptions and wholesalers sell jakafi to hospitals and physician offices. we do not promote jakafi to specialty pharmacies or wholesalers, and they do not set or determine demand for jakafi. our ability to successfully commercialize jakafi will depend, in part, on the extent to which we are able to provide adequate distribution of jakafi to patients. although we have contracted with a number of specialty pharmacies and wholesalers, they are expected generally to carry a very limited inventory and may be reluctant to be part of our distribution network in the future if demand for the product does not increase. further, it is possible that these specialty pharmacies and wholesalers could decide to change their policies or fees, or both, at some time in the future. this could result in their refusal to carry smaller volume products such as jakafi, or lower margins or the need to find alternative methods of distributing our product. although we believe we can find alternative channels to distribute jakafi on relatively short notice, our revenue during that period of time may suffer and we may incur additional costs to replace any such specialty pharmacy or wholesaler. the loss of any large specialty pharmacy or wholesaler as part of our distribution network, a significant reduction in sales we make to specialty pharmacies or wholesalers, or any failure to pay for the products we have shipped to them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. if we are unable to establish and maintain effective sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or to enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will not be able to successfully commercialize our products. prior to our commercialization of jakafi, we had no experience selling and marketing drug products and with pricing and obtaining adequate third-party reimbursement for drug products. under our collaboration and license agreement with novartis, we have retained commercialization rights to jakafi in the united states. we have established commercial capabilities in the united states, but cannot guarantee that we will be able to enter into and maintain any marketing, distribution or third-party logistics agreements with third-party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. in connection with our june 2016 acquisition from ariad pharmaceuticals, inc. we licensed rights to develop and commercialize iclusig in certain countries and we acquired the european sales, marketing and distribution operations of ariad. we may not be able to maintain those operations or retain their personnel or distribution arrangements. we may not be able to correctly judge the size and experience of the sales and marketing force and the scale of distribution capabilities necessary to successfully market and sell our products. establishing and maintaining sales, marketing and distribution capabilities are expensive and time consuming. competition for personnel with experience in sales and marketing can be high. our expenses associated with building and maintaining the sales force and distribution capabilities may be disproportional compared to the revenues we may be able to generate on sales of our products. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could lose our approval to market our products or be subject to other governmental enforcement activity. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain regulatory approval to market our products in the jurisdictions in which they are currently marketed. if we do not maintain our regulatory approval to market our products, in particular jakafi, our results of operations will be materially harmed. we and our collaborators, third-party manufacturers and suppliers are subject to rigorous and extensive regulation by the fda and other federal and state agencies as well as foreign governmental agencies. these regulations continue to apply after product marketing approval, and cover, among other things, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, advertising, promotion, risk mitigation, and adverse event reporting requirements. the commercialization of our products is subject to post-regulatory approval product surveillance, and our products may have to be withdrawn from the market or subject to restrictions if previously unknown problems occur. regulatory agencies may also require additional clinical trials or testing for our products, and our products may be recalled 30 table of contents or may be subject to reformulation, additional studies, changes in labeling, warnings to the public and negative publicity. for example, from late 2013 through 2014, iclusig was subject to review by the european medicines agency, or ema, of the benefits and risks of iclusig to better understand the nature, frequency and severity of events obstructing the arteries or veins, the potential mechanism that leads to these side effects and whether there needed to be a revision in the dosing recommendation, patient monitoring and a risk management plan for iclusig. this review was completed in january 2015, with additional warnings in the product information but without any change in the approved indications. the ema could take additional actions in the future that reduce the commercial potential of iclusig. failure to comply with the laws and regulations administered by the fda or other agencies could result in: administrative and judicial sanctions, including warning letters; fines and other civil penalties; suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval to market our products; interruption of production; operating restrictions; product recall or seizure; injunctions; and criminal prosecution. the occurrence of any such event may have a material adverse effect on our business. if the use of our products harms patients, or is perceived to harm patients even when such harm is unrelated to our products, our regulatory approvals could be revoked or otherwise negatively impacted or we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. the testing of jakafi and iclusig, the manufacturing, marketing and sale of jakafi and the marketing and sale of iclusig expose us to product liability and other risks. side effects and other problems experienced by patients from the use of our products could: lessen the frequency with which physicians decide to prescribe our products; encourage physicians to stop prescribing our products to their patients who previously had been prescribed our products; cause serious harm to patients that may give rise to product liability claims against us; and result in our need to withdraw or recall our products from the marketplace. if our products are used by a wide patient population, new risks and side effects may be discovered, the rate of known risks or side effects may increase, and risks previously viewed as less significant could be determined to be significant. previously unknown risks and adverse effects of our products may also be discovered in connection with unapproved, or off-label, uses of our products. we are prohibited by law from promoting or in any way supporting or encouraging the promotion of our products for off-label uses, but physicians are permitted to use products for off-label purposes. in addition, we are studying and expect to continue to study jakafi in diseases for potential additional indications in controlled clinical settings, and independent investigators are doing so as well. in the event of any new risks 31 table of contents or adverse effects discovered as new patients are treated for intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis or uncontrolled polycythemia vera and as jakafi is studied in or used by patients for off-label indications, regulatory authorities may delay or revoke their approvals, we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials, make changes in labeling of jakafi, reformulate jakafi or make changes and obtain new approvals. we may also experience a significant drop in the sales of jakafi, experience harm to our reputation and the reputation of jakafi in the marketplace or become subject to lawsuits, including class actions. any of these results could decrease or prevent sales of jakafi or substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing jakafi. similar results could occur with respect to our commercialization of iclusig. patients who have been enrolled in our clinical trials or who may use our products in the future often have severe and advanced stages of disease and known as well as unknown significant pre-existing and potentially life-threatening health risks. during the course of treatment, patients may suffer adverse events, including death, for reasons that may or may not be related to our products. such events could subject us to costly litigation, require us to pay substantial amounts of money to injured patients, delay, negatively impact or end our opportunity to receive or maintain regulatory approval to market our products, or require us to suspend or abandon our commercialization efforts. even in a circumstance in which we do not believe that an adverse event is related to our products, the investigation into the circumstance may be time consuming or inconclusive. these investigations may interrupt our sales efforts, impact and limit the type of regulatory approvals our products receive or maintain, or delay the regulatory approval process in other countries. factors similar to those listed above also apply to our collaboration partner novartis and to iclusig for jurisdictions outside the united states. if we market our products in a manner that violates various laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. in addition to fda and related regulatory requirements, we are subject to health care fraud and abuse laws, such as the federal false claims act, the anti kickback provisions of the federal social security act, and other state and federal laws and regulations. federal and state anti kickback laws prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce, or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any health care item or service reimbursable under medicare, medicaid, or other federally or state financed health care programs. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities. although physicians are permitted, based on their medical judgment, to prescribe products for indications other than those approved by the fda, manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products for such off label uses. we market jakafi for intermediate or high risk myelofibrosis and uncontrolled polycythemia vera and provide promotional materials to physicians regarding the use of jakafi for these indications. although we believe that our promotional materials for physicians do not constitute off label promotion of jakafi, the fda or other agencies may disagree. if the fda or another agency determines that our promotional materials or other activities constitute off label promotion of jakafi, it could request that we modify our promotional materials or other activities or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. it is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they believe that the alleged improper promotion led to the submission and payment of claims for an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. even if it is later determined we are not in violation of these laws, we may be faced with negative publicity, incur significant expenses defending our position and have to divert significant management resources from other matters. the european union and member countries impose similar strict restrictions on the promotion and marketing of drug products. the off-label promotion of medicinal products is prohibited in the eu and in other territories. the promotion of medicinal products that are not subject to a marketing authorization is also prohibited in the eu. violations of the rules governing the promotion of medicinal products in the eu and in other territories could be penalized by administrative measures, fines and imprisonment. 32 table of contents the majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. in recent years, several states and localities, including california, connecticut, the district of columbia, massachusetts, minnesota, nevada, new mexico, texas, vermont, and west virginia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. similar legislation is being considered in other states. additionally, as part of the patient protection and affordable care act, the federal government has enacted the physician payment sunshine provisions. the sunshine provisions require manufacturers to publicly report certain payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals. many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements are unclear. nonetheless, if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement action and fines and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity. see also other risks relating to our business if we fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory requirements affecting the health care industry, we could face increased costs, penalties and a loss of business below. competition for our products could harm our business and result in a decrease in our revenue. present and potential competitors for jakafi could include major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as specialty pharmaceutical firms. for example, in january 2018, celgene corporation announced an agreement to acquire impact biomedicines, which is developing a drug candidate for the treatment of myelofibrosis and polycythemia vera. see other risks relating to our business we face significant competition for our drug discovery and development efforts, and if we do not compete effectively, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated for a description of risks relating to this type of competition. in addition, jakafi could face competition from generic products. as a result of the drug price competition and patent term restoration act of 1984, commonly known as the hatch-waxman act, in the united states, generic manufacturers may seek approval of a generic version of an innovative pharmaceutical by filing with the fda an abbreviated new drug application, or anda. the hatch-waxman act provides significant incentives to generic manufacturers to challenge u.s. patents on successful innovative pharmaceutical products. in february 2016, we received a notice letter regarding an anda that requested approval to market a generic version of jakafi and purported to challenge patents covering ruxolitinib phosphate and its use that expire in 2028. the notice letter does not challenge the ruxolitinib composition of matter patent, which expires in december 2027. to date, to our knowledge, the fda has taken no action with respect to this anda. separately, in january 2018 the patent trial and appeal board of united states patent and trademark office denied a petition challenging our patent covering deuterated ruxolitinib analogs, although the challenging party retains the right to challenge the validity of the patent in federal court. there can be no assurance that our patents will be upheld or that any litigation in which we might engage with any such generic manufacturer would be successful in protecting jakafi exclusivity. the entry of a generic version of jakafi could result in a decrease in jakafi sales and materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. iclusig currently competes with existing therapies that are approved for the treatment of patients with chronic myeloid leukemia, or cml, who are resistant or intolerant to prior tyrosine kinase inhibitor, or tki, therapies, on the basis of, among other things, efficacy, cost, breadth of approved use and the safety and side-effect profile. in addition, a generic version of imatinib was launched in the united states in february 2016, and generic versions are expected to be launched in other markets. although we currently believe that generic versions of imatinib will not materially impact our commercialization of iclusig, given iclusig various indication statements globally that are currently focused on resistant or intolerant cml, we cannot be certain how physicians, payors, patients, regulatory authorities and other market participants will respond to the availability of generic versions of imatinib. other risks relating to our business we may be unsuccessful in our efforts to discover and develop drug candidates and commercialize drug products. none of our drug candidates, other than jakafi/jakavi, has received regulatory approval. our ability to discover and develop drug candidates and to commercialize additional drug products will depend on our ability to: hire and retain key employees; 33 table of contents identify high quality therapeutic targets; identify potential drug candidates; develop products internally or license drug candidates from others; identify and enroll suitable human subjects, either in the united states or abroad, for our clinical trials; complete laboratory testing; commence, conduct and complete safe and effective clinical trials on humans; obtain and maintain necessary intellectual property rights to our products; obtain and maintain necessary regulatory approvals for our products, both in the united states and abroad; enter into arrangements with third parties to provide services or to manufacture our products on our behalf; deploy sales and marketing resources effectively or enter into arrangements with third parties to provide these functions in compliance with all applicable laws; obtain appropriate coverage and reimbursement levels for the cost of our products from governmental authorities, private health insurers and other third party payors; lease facilities at reasonable rates to support our growth; and enter into arrangements with third parties to license and commercialize our products. we have limited experience with many of the activities listed above and may not be successful in discovering, developing, or commercializing additional drug products. discovery and development of drug candidates are expensive, uncertain and time consuming, and we do not know if our efforts will lead to discovery of any drug candidates that can be successfully developed and marketed. of the compounds or biologics that we identify as potential drug products or that we may in license from other companies, including potential products for which we are conducting clinical trials, only a few, if any, are likely to lead to successful drug development programs and commercialized drug products. we depend heavily on the success of our most advanced drug candidates. we might not be able to commercialize any of our drug candidates successfully, and we may spend significant time and money attempting to do so. we have invested significant resources in the development of our most advanced drug candidates. ruxolitinib is in phase ii and phase iii clinical trials for the treatment of patients with steroid-refractory acute graft-versus-host disease and is in other clinical trials. epacadostat is in a number of phase iii clinical trials. further, we have a number of drug candidates in phase i and phase ii clinical trials. our ability to generate product revenues will depend on the successful development and eventual commercialization of our most advanced drug candidates. we, or our collaborators or licensees, may decide to discontinue development of any or all of our drug candidates at any time for commercial, scientific or other reasons. for example, in early 2016, we decided to discontinue the studies of ruxolitinib in pancreatic cancer and solid tumors and itacitinib in pancreatic cancer. if a product is developed but not approved or marketed, we may have spent significant amounts of time and money on it, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition as well as our business plans. if we or our collaborators are unable to obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates in the united states and foreign jurisdictions, we or our collaborators will not be permitted to commercialize products resulting from our research. in order to commercialize drug products in the united states, drug candidates will have to obtain regulatory 34 table of contents approval from the fda. satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years. to obtain regulatory approval, we or our collaborators, as the case may be, must first show that our drug candidates are safe and effective for target indications through preclinical testing (animal testing) and clinical trials (human testing). preclinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes, and we do not know whether the fda will allow us or our collaborators to undertake clinical trials of any drug candidates in addition to our compounds currently in clinical trials. if regulatory approval of a product is granted, this approval will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which the product is demonstrated through clinical trials to be safe and effective. completion of clinical trials may take several years and failure may occur at any stage of testing. the length of time required varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the drug candidate. interim results of a preclinical test or clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results, and acceptable results in early clinical trials may not be repeated in later clinical trials. for example, a drug candidate that is successful at the preclinical level may cause harmful or dangerous side effects when tested at the clinical level. our rate of commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed, and existing clinical trials with our drug candidates may be stopped, due to many potential factors, including: the high degree of risk and uncertainty associated with drug development; our inability to formulate or manufacture sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials; variability in the number and types of patients available for each study; difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, resulting in incomplete data; unforeseen safety issues or side effects; poor or unanticipated effectiveness of drug candidates during the clinical trials; or government or regulatory delays. data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretation, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. many companies in the pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industry, including our company, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving promising results in earlier clinical trials. in addition, regulatory authorities may refuse or delay approval as a result of other factors, such as changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development and regulatory agency review. for example, the fda has in the past required, and could in the future require, that we or our collaborators conduct additional trials of any of our drug candidates, which would result in delays. in april 2017, we and our collaborator lilly announced that the fda had issued a complete response letter for the new drug application (nda) of olumiant (baricitinib) as a once-daily oral medication for the treatment of moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis. the letter indicated that the fda was unable to approve the application in its current form. specifically, the fda indicated that additional clinical data are needed to determine the most appropriate doses. the fda also stated that additional data are necessary to further characterize safety concerns across treatment arms. compounds or biologics developed by us or with or by our collaborators and licensees may not prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials and may not meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements needed to receive marketing approval. for example, in january 2016, a phase ii trial that was evaluating ruxolitinib in combination with regorafenib in patients with relapsed or refractory metastatic colorectal cancer and high c-reactive protein was stopped early after a planned analysis of interim efficacy data determined that the likelihood of the trial meeting its efficacy endpoint was insufficient. in addition, in february 2016, we made a decision to discontinue our janus 1 study, our janus 2 study, our other studies of ruxolitinib in colorectal, breast and lung cancer, and our study of incb39110 in pancreatic cancer after a planned analysis of interim efficacy data of janus 1 demonstrated that ruxolitinib plus capecitabine did not show a sufficient level of efficacy to warrant continuation. if clinical trials of any of our compounds or biologics are stopped for safety, efficacy or other reasons or fail to meet their respective endpoints, our overall development plans, business, prospects, expected operating results and financial condition could be materially harmed and the value of our company could be negatively affected. 35 table of contents outside the united states, our and our collaborators ability to market a product is contingent upon receiving a marketing authorization from the appropriate regulatory authorities. this foreign regulatory approval process typically includes all of the risks associated with the fda approval process described above and may also include additional risks. the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country and may require us to perform additional testing and expend additional resources. approval by the fda does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or by the fda. health care reform measures could impact the pricing and profitability of pharmaceuticals, and adversely affect the commercial viability of our products and drug candidates. our ability to generate revenues will be diminished if we are unable to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement from private insurers, government insurance programs or other third party payors of health care costs, which could be affected by current and potential healthcare reform legislation. our ability to commercialize our current and any future approved products successfully will depend in part on the extent to which adequate reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatment are obtained from third party payors, such as private insurers, government insurance programs, including medicare and medicaid, health maintenance organizations (hmos) and other health care related organizations. in recent years, through legislative and regulatory actions, the federal government has made substantial changes to various payment systems under the medicare and other federal health care programs. comprehensive reforms to the u.s. healthcare system were enacted, including changes to the methods for, and amounts of, medicare reimbursement. while there is currently significant uncertainty regarding the implementation of some of these reforms or the scope of amended or additional reforms, the implementation of reforms could significantly reduce payments from medicare and medicaid. reforms or other changes to these payment systems, may change the availability, methods and rates of reimbursements from medicare, private insurers and other third-party payors for our current and any future approved products. some of these changes and proposed changes could result in reduced reimbursement rates or in eliminating dual sources of payment, which could reduce the price that we or any of our collaborators or licensees receive for any products in the future, and which would adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. further federal and state proposals to regulate prices of pharmaceutical products and other health care reforms are possible, which could limit the prices that can be charged for any of our products and may further limit the commercial viability of our products and drug candidates. in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. if reimbursement for our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our business could be materially harmed. there may be future changes that result in reductions in current coverage and reimbursement levels for our current or any future approved products, and we cannot predict the scope of any future changes or the impact that those changes would have on our operations. third party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. also, the trend toward managed health care in the united states, the organizations for which could control or significantly influence the purchase of health care services and products, as well as legislative and regulatory proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may all result in lower prices for or rejection of our products. adoption of our products by the medical community may be limited without adequate reimbursement for those products. cost control initiatives may decrease coverage and payment levels for our products and, in turn, the price that we will be able to charge for any product. our products may not be considered cost effective, and coverage and reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis. we are unable to predict all changes to the coverage or reimbursement methodologies that will be applied by private or government payors to our current and any future approved products. the continuing efforts of legislatures, health agencies and third party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care, any denial of private or government payor coverage or inadequate reimbursement for our drug candidates could materially and adversely affect our business strategy, operations, future revenues and profitability, and the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers, collaborators and licensees and the availability of capital. the same risks apply to our compounds developed and marketed by our collaborators, and our future potential milestone and royalty revenues could be affected in a similar manner. 36 table of contents we depend on our collaborators and licensees for the future development and commercialization of some of our drug candidates. conflicts may arise between our collaborators and licensees and us, or our collaborators and licensees may choose to terminate their agreements with us, which may adversely affect our business. we have licensed to novartis rights to ruxolitinib outside of the united states and worldwide rights to our met inhibitor compounds and licensed to lilly worldwide rights to baricitinib. we have also licensed to pfizer our portfolio of ccr2 antagonist compounds. under the terms of our agreements with these collaborators, we have no or limited control over the further clinical development of these drug candidates and any revenues we may receive if these drug candidates receive regulatory approval and are commercialized will depend primarily on the development and commercialization efforts of others. while olumiant (baricitinib) was approved by the european commission in february 2017 for the treatment of moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients and by japan ministry of health, labor and welfare in july 2017 for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis in patients with inadequate response to standard-of-care therapies, if the new drug application for baricitinib for the treatment of moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis does not receive fda approval, we will not receive future milestone payments or royalties related to that indication in the united states under our agreement with lilly. in addition, even if baricitinib is approved by the fda in this indication, delays in any such approval, or any label modifications or restrictions in connection with any approval by the fda, european or other regulatory authorities, or the existence of other risks relating to approved drug products, including those described under risks relating to commercialization of our products, could delay the receipt of and reduce resulting potential royalty and milestone revenue from baricitinib. conflicts may arise with our collaborators and licensees if they pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products either on their own or in collaboration with others as a means for developing treatments for the diseases that we have targeted. competing products and product opportunities may lead our collaborators and licensees to withdraw their support for our drug candidates. any failure of our collaborators and licensees to perform their obligations under our agreements with them or otherwise to support our drug candidates could negatively impact the development of our drug candidates, lead to our loss of potential revenues from product sales and milestones and delay our achievement, if any, of profitability. additionally, conflicts may arise if, among other things, there is a dispute about the achievement and payment of a milestone amount or the ownership of intellectual property that is developed during the course of a collaborative relationship. our existing collaborative and license agreements can be terminated by our collaborators and licensees for convenience, among other circumstances. if any of our collaborators or licensees terminates its agreement with us, or terminates its rights with respect to certain indications or drug candidates, we may not be able to find a new collaborator for them, and our business could be adversely affected. should an agreement be terminated before we have realized the benefits of the collaboration or license, our reputation could be harmed, we may not obtain revenues that we anticipated receiving, and our business could be adversely affected. the success of our drug discovery and development efforts may depend on our ability to find suitable collaborators to fully exploit our capabilities. if we are unable to establish collaborations or if these future collaborations are unsuccessful in the development and commercialization of our drug candidates, our research, development and commercialization efforts may be unsuccessful, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. an important element of our business strategy is to enter into collaborative or license arrangements with other parties, under which we license our drug candidates to those parties for development and commercialization or under which we study our drug candidates in combination with other parties compounds or biologics. for example, in addition to our novartis, lilly and pfizer collaborations, we have entered into clinical study relationships with respect to epacadostat and are evaluating strategic relationships with respect to several of our other programs. however, because collaboration and license arrangements are complex to negotiate, we may not be successful in our attempts to establish these arrangements. also, we may not have drug candidates that are desirable to other parties, or we may be unwilling to license a drug candidate to a particular party because such party interested in it is a competitor or for other reasons. the terms of any such arrangements that we establish may not be favorable to us. alternatively, potential collaborators may decide against entering into an agreement with us because of our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position or for scientific, commercial or other reasons. if we are not able to establish collaboration or license arrangements, we may not be able to develop and commercialize a drug product, which could adversely affect our business and our revenues. 37 table of contents we will likely not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators or licensees devote to our programs or drug candidates. if our collaborators or licensees prove difficult to work with, are less skilled than we originally expected, do not devote adequate resources to the program, are unable to obtain regulatory approval of our drug candidates, pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products, or do not agree with our approach to development or manufacturing of the drug candidate, the relationship could be unsuccessful. our collaborations with respect to epacadostat involve the study of our collaborators drugs used in combination with epacadostat on a number of indications or tumor types, many of which are the same across multiple collaborations. we cannot assure you that potential conflicts will not arise or be alleged among these collaborations. if a business combination involving a collaborator or licensee and a third-party were to occur, the effect could be to terminate or cause delays in development of a drug candidate. if we fail to enter into additional licensing agreements or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our business and operations might be adversely affected. in addition to establishing collaborative or license arrangements under which other parties license our drug candidates for development and commercialization or under which we study our drug candidates in combination with such parties compounds or biologics, we may explore opportunities to develop our clinical pipeline by in-licensing drug candidates or therapeutics targets that fit within our focus on oncology, such as our collaborations with agenus inc., calithera biosciences, inc., macrogenics, inc., merus n.v., and syros pharmaceuticals, inc., or explore additional opportunities to further develop and commercialize existing drug candidates in specific jurisdictions, such as our june 2016 acquisition of the development and commercialization rights to iclusig in certain countries. we may be unable to enter into any additional in-licensing agreements because suitable drug candidates that are within our expertise may not be available to us on terms that are acceptable to us or because competitors with greater resources seek to in-license the same drug candidates. drug candidates that we would like to develop or commercialize may not be available to us because they are controlled by competitors who are unwilling to license the rights to the drug candidate to us. in addition, we may enter into license agreements that are unsuccessful and our business and operations might be adversely affected if we are unable to realize the expected economic benefits of a collaboration or other licensing arrangement, by the termination of a drug candidate and termination and winding down of the related license agreement, or due to other business or regulatory issues that may adversely affect a licensor ability to continue to perform its obligations under an in-license agreement. as discussed above under we depend on our collaborators and licensees for the future development and commercialization of some of our drug candidates. conflicts may arise between our collaborators and licensees and us, or our collaborators and licensees may choose to terminate their agreements with us, which may adversely affect our business, conflicts or other issues may arise with our licensors. those conflicts could result in delays in our plans to develop drug candidates or result in the expenditure of additional funds to resolve those conflicts that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we may also need to license drug delivery or other technology in order to continue to develop our drug candidates. if we are unable to enter into additional agreements to license drug candidates, drug delivery technology or other technology or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our research and development efforts could be adversely affected. even if a drug candidate that we develop receives regulatory approval, we may decide not to commercialize it if we determine that commercialization of that product would require more money and time than we are willing to invest. even if any of our drug candidates receives regulatory approval, it could be subject to post regulatory surveillance, and may have to be withdrawn from the market or subject to restrictions if previously unknown problems occur. regulatory agencies may also require additional clinical trials or testing, and the drug product may be recalled or may be subject to reformulation, additional studies, changes in labeling, warnings to the public and negative publicity. as a result, we may not continue to commercialize a product even though it has obtained regulatory approval. further, we may decide not to continue to commercialize a product if the market does not accept the product because it is too expensive or because third parties, such as insurance companies or medicare, have not approved it for substantial reimbursement. in addition, we may decide not to continue to commercialize a product if competitors develop and commercialize similar or superior products or have proprietary rights that preclude us from ultimately marketing our products. 38 table of contents any approved drug product that we bring to the market may not gain market acceptance by physicians, patients, healthcare payors and others in the medical community. even if we are successful in gaining regulatory approval of any of our drug candidates in addition to jakafi or acquire rights to approved drug products in addition to iclusig, we may not generate significant product revenues and we may not become profitable if these drug products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance. physicians may not recommend our drug products until longer term clinical data or other factors demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our drug products as compared to other alternative treatments. even if the clinical safety and efficacy of our drug products is established, physicians may elect not to prescribe these drug products for a variety of reasons, including the reimbursement policies of government and other third party payors and the effectiveness of our competitors in marketing their products. market acceptance of our drug products, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including: the willingness and ability of patients and the healthcare community to use our drug products; the ability to manufacture our drug products in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality and to offer our drug products for sale at competitive prices; the perception of patients and the healthcare community, including third party payors, regarding the safety, efficacy and benefits of our drug products compared to those of competing products or therapies; the label and promotional claims allowed by the fda; the pricing and reimbursement of our drug products relative to existing treatments; and marketing and distribution support for our drug products. we have limited capacity to conduct preclinical testing and clinical trials, and our resulting dependence on other parties could result in delays in and additional costs for our drug development efforts. we have limited internal resources and capacity to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials. as part of our development strategy, we often hire clinical research organizations, or cros, to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials for drug candidates. if the cros that we hire to perform our preclinical testing and clinical trials do not meet deadlines, do not follow proper procedures, or a conflict arises between us and our cros, our preclinical testing and clinical trials may take longer than expected, may cost more, may be delayed or may be terminated. if we were forced to find a replacement entity to perform any of our preclinical testing or clinical trials, we may not be able to find a suitable entity on favorable terms, or at all. even if we were able to find another company to perform a preclinical test or clinical trial, the delay in the test or trial may result in significant additional expenditures. events such as these may result in delays in our obtaining regulatory approval for our drug candidates or our ability to commercialize our products and could result in increased expenditures that would adversely affect our operating results. we face significant competition for our drug discovery and development efforts, and if we do not compete effectively, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated. the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. our drug discovery and development efforts may target diseases and conditions that are already subject to existing therapies or that are being developed by our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, more experience in completing preclinical testing and clinical trials, and formulation, marketing and manufacturing capabilities. as a result of these resources, our competitors may develop drug products that render our products obsolete or noncompetitive by developing more effective drugs, developing their products more efficiently or pricing their products more competitively. our ability to develop competitive products would be limited if our competitors succeeded in obtaining regulatory approvals for drug candidates more rapidly than we were able to or in obtaining patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limited our drug development efforts. any drug products resulting from our research and development efforts, or from our joint efforts with collaborators 39 table of contents or licensees, might not be able to compete successfully with our competitors existing and future products, or obtain regulatory approval in the united states or elsewhere. the development of products or processes by our competitors with significant advantages over those that we are developing could harm our future revenues and profitability. our reliance on other parties to manufacture our drug products and drug candidates could result in a short supply of the drugs, delays in clinical trials or drug development, increased costs, and withdrawal or denial of a regulatory authority approval. we do not currently operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of jakafi and our other drug candidates or for iclusig. we currently hire third parties to manufacture the raw materials, active pharmaceutical ingredient, or api, and finished drug product of jakafi, iclusig and our other drug candidates for clinical trials. in addition, we expect to continue to rely on third parties for the manufacture of commercial supplies of raw materials, api and finished drug product for any drugs that we successfully develop. we also hire third parties to package and label the finished product. the fda requires that the raw materials, api and finished product for jakafi and our other drug candidates be manufactured according to its current good manufacturing practices regulations and regulatory authorities in other countries have similar requirements. there are only a limited number of manufacturers that comply with these requirements. failure to comply with current good manufacturing practices and the applicable regulatory requirements of other countries in the manufacture of our drug candidates and products could result in the fda or a foreign regulatory authority halting our clinical trials, withdrawing or denying regulatory approval of our drug product, enforcing product recalls or other enforcement actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of our drug candidates or any drug products we may develop if our designated manufacturers do not have the capacity or capability to manufacture them according to our schedule and specifications. manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, especially in scaling up initial production. these problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control and assurance and shortages of qualified personnel. in addition, we may not be able to arrange for our drug candidates or any drug products that we may develop to be manufactured by one of these parties on reasonable terms, if at all. we generally have a single source or a limited number of suppliers that are qualified to supply each of the api and finished product of jakafi, iclusig and our other drug candidates and, in the case of jakafi, we only have a single source for its raw materials. if any of these suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to supply us with raw materials, api or finished product that complies with applicable regulatory requirements, we could incur significant delays in our clinical trials or interruption of commercial supply that could have a material adverse effect on our business. if we have promised delivery of a drug candidate or drug product and are unable to meet the delivery requirement due to manufacturing difficulties, our development programs could be delayed, we may have to expend additional sums in order to ensure that manufacturing capacity is available when we need it even if we do not use all of the manufacturing capacity, and our business and operating results could be harmed. we may not be able to adequately manage and oversee the manufacturers we choose, they may not perform as agreed or they may terminate their agreements with us. foreign manufacturing approval processes typically include all of the risks associated with the fda approval process for manufacturing and may also include additional risks. a number of our collaborations involve the manufacture of antibodies. either we or our collaborators have primary responsibility for manufacturing activities, and we are currently using third-party contract manufacturing organizations. manufacturing antibodies and products containing antibodies is a more complex process than manufacturing small molecule drugs and subject to additional risks. the process of manufacturing antibodies and products containing antibodies is highly susceptible to product loss due to contamination, equipment failure or improper installation or operation of equipment, vendor or operator error, inconsistency in yields, variability in product characteristics, and difficulties in scaling the production process. even minor deviations from normal manufacturing processes could result in reduced production yields, product defects and other supply disruptions. if microbial, viral or other contaminations are discovered in our product candidates or in the manufacturing facilities in which our product candidates are made, such manufacturing facilities may need to be closed for an extended period of time to investigate and remedy the contamination. 40 table of contents if we fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory requirements affecting the health care industry, we could face increased costs, penalties and a loss of business. our activities, and the activities of our collaborators, partners and third party providers, are subject to extensive government regulation and oversight both in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions. the fda and comparable agencies in other jurisdictions directly regulate many of our most critical business activities, including the conduct of preclinical and clinical studies, product manufacturing, advertising and promotion, product distribution, adverse event reporting and product risk management. states increasingly have been placing greater restrictions on the marketing practices of healthcare companies. in addition, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been the target of lawsuits and investigations alleging violations of government regulations, including claims asserting submission of incorrect pricing information, impermissible off label promotion of pharmaceutical products, payments intended to influence the referral of federal or state healthcare business, submission of false claims for government reimbursement, antitrust violations, violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and similar anti bribery or anti corruption laws, or violations related to environmental matters. there is also enhanced scrutiny of company-sponsored patient assistance programs, including insurance premium and co-pay assistance programs and donations to third-party charities that provide such assistance. violations of governmental regulation by us, our vendors or donation recipients may be punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in government programs, including medicare and medicaid. in addition to penalties for violation of laws and regulations, we could be required to repay amounts we received from government payors, or pay additional rebates and interest if we are found to have miscalculated the pricing information we have submitted to the government. actions taken by federal or local governments, legislative bodies and enforcement agencies with respect to these legal and regulatory compliance matters could also result in reduced demand for our products, reduced coverage of our products by health care payors, or both. we cannot ensure that our compliance controls, policies, and procedures will in every instance protect us from acts committed by our employees, collaborators, partners or third party providers that would violate the laws or regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate. whether or not we have complied with the law, an investigation into alleged unlawful conduct could increase our expenses, damage our reputation, divert management time and attention and adversely affect our business. risks relating to compliance with laws and regulations may be heightened as we continue to expand our global operations and enter new therapeutic areas with different patient populations, which due to different product distribution methods, marketing programs or patient assistance programs may result in additional regulatory burdens and obligations. as our drug discovery and development operations are conducted at our headquarters in wilmington, delaware, the loss of access to this facility would negatively impact our business. our facility in wilmington, delaware is our headquarters and is also where we conduct all of our drug discovery, research, development and marketing activities. in addition, natural disasters or actions of activists opposed to aspects of pharmaceutical research may disrupt our experiments or our ability to access or use our facility. the loss of access to or use of our wilmington, delaware facility, either on a temporary or permanent basis would result in an interruption of our business and, consequently, would adversely affect our overall business. we depend on key employees in a competitive market for skilled personnel, and the loss of the services of any of our key employees or our inability to attract and retain additional personnel would affect our ability to expand our drug discovery and development programs and achieve our objectives. we are highly dependent on the members of our executive management team and principal members of our commercial, development, medical, operations and scientific staff. we experience intense competition for qualified personnel. our future success also depends in part on the continued service of our executive management team and key personnel and our ability to recruit, train and retain essential personnel for our drug discovery and development programs, and for our medical affairs and commercialization activities. if we lose the services of any of these people or if we are unable to recruit sufficient qualified personnel, our research and product development goals, and our commercialization efforts could be delayed or curtailed. we do not maintain key person insurance on any of our employees. 41 table of contents if we fail to manage our growth effectively, our ability to develop and commercialize products could suffer. we expect that if our drug discovery efforts continue to generate drug candidates, our clinical drug candidates continue to progress in development, and we continue to build our development, medical and commercial organizations, we will require significant additional investment in personnel, management and resources. our ability to achieve our research, development and commercialization objectives depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands and expand our internal organization, systems, controls and facilities to accommodate additional anticipated growth. if we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business could be harmed and our ability to execute our business strategy could suffer. we may acquire businesses or assets, form joint ventures or make investments in other companies that may be unsuccessful, divert our management attention and harm our operating results and prospects. as part of our business strategy, we may pursue additional acquisitions of what we believe to be complementary businesses or assets or seek to enter into joint ventures. we also may pursue strategic alliances in an effort to leverage our existing infrastructure and industry experience to expand our product offerings or distribution, or make investments in other companies. for example, in june 2016, we completed the acquisition of the european operations of ariad and obtained the exclusive license to develop and commercialize iclusig in europe and other countries. the success of our acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances and investments will depend on our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and, in the case of acquisitions, integrate those transactions and, if necessary, obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing to fund those transactions. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, joint venture, strategic alliance or investment. we may not be able to integrate acquisitions successfully into our existing business, maintain the key business relationships of businesses we acquire, or retain key personnel of an acquired business, and we could assume unknown or contingent liabilities or incur unanticipated expenses. integration of acquired companies or businesses also may require management resources that otherwise would be available for ongoing development of our existing business. any acquisitions or investments made by us also could result in significant write-offs or the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could harm our operating results. for example, in the year ended december 31, 2017, we recorded unrealized losses related to our investments in agenus inc. and merus n.v., and we may in the future experience additional losses related to our investments. in addition, if we choose to issue shares of our stock as consideration for any acquisition, dilution to our stockholders could result. risks associated with the expansion of our operations outside of the united states could adversely affect our business. our acquisition of ariad european operations significantly expanded our operations in europe, and we plan to continue to expand our operations and conduct certain development activities outside of the united states. we have limited experience with conducting activities outside of the united states. international operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous additional risks, including: multiple, conflicting and changing laws and regulations such as tax laws, privacy regulations, tariffs, export and import restrictions, employment, immigration and labor laws, regulatory requirements, and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and difficulties in connection with assimilating and integrating any operations and personnel we might acquire into our company; risks associated with obtaining and maintaining, or the failure to obtain or maintain, regulatory approvals for the sale or use of our products in various countries; complexities associated with managing government payor systems, multiple payor reimbursement regimes or patient self pay systems; financial risks, such as longer payment cycles, difficulty obtaining financing in foreign markets, difficulty enforcing contracts and intellectual property rights, difficulty collecting accounts receivable and exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; 42 table of contents general political and economic conditions in the countries in operate, including terrorism and political unrest, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions, and uncertainties associated with the future relationship between the united kingdom and the european union; and regulatory and compliance risks that relate to maintaining accurate information and control over activities that may fall within the purview of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, its books and records provisions or its anti bribery provisions, or similar anti bribery or anti corruption laws and regulations. although we conducted due diligence of ariad european operations prior to the acquisition, we may discover or identify deficiencies or non-compliance with such laws and regulations as we complete the integration of the ariad business and conduct our european operations. any of the risks described above, if encountered, could significantly increase our costs of operating internationally, prevent us from operating in certain jurisdictions, or otherwise significantly harm our future international expansion and operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we could face substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products and our results of operations could be harmed. in addition to the risks described above under risks relating to commercialization of our products if the use of our products harms patients, or is perceived to harm patients even when such harm is unrelated to our products, our regulatory approvals could be revoked or otherwise negatively impacted or we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims, the conduct of clinical trials of medical products that are intended for human use entails an inherent risk of product liability. if any product that we or any of our collaborators or licensees develops causes or is alleged to cause injury during clinical trials or commercialization, we may be held liable. if we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities, including substantial damages to be paid to the plaintiffs and legal costs, or we may be required to limit further development and commercialization of our products. additionally, any product liability lawsuit could cause injury to our reputation, participants and investigators to withdraw from clinical trials, and potential collaborators or licensees to seek other partners, any of which could impact our results of operations. our product liability insurance policy may not fully cover our potential liabilities. in addition, we may determine that we should increase our coverage, and this insurance may be prohibitively expensive to us or our collaborators or licensees and may not fully cover our potential liabilities. since december 30, 2017, we elected to self-insure a portion of our exposure to product liability risks through our wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiary, in tandem with third-party insurance policies. our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the development or commercialization of our drug candidates and products, and if our liabilities from any such claims exceed our third-party insurance limits and self-insurance reserves, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely impacted. because our activities involve the use of hazardous materials, we may be subject to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials that could be time consuming and costly. we are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the use, handling, storage and disposal of regulated substances and the health and safety of our employees. our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous and radioactive materials and biological waste resulting in the production of hazardous waste products. we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. if any injury or contamination results from our use or the use by our collaborators or licensees of these materials, we may be sued and our liability may exceed our insurance coverage and our total assets. further, we may be required to indemnify our collaborators or licensees against all damages and other liabilities arising out of our development activities or products produced in connection with these collaborations or licenses. compliance with the applicable environmental and workplace laws and regulations is expensive. future changes to environmental, health, workplace and safety laws could cause us to incur additional expense or may restrict our operations or impair our research, development and production efforts. 43 table of contents risks relating to our financial results we may incur losses in the future and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. due to historical net losses, we had an accumulated deficit of $2.0 billion as of december 31, 2017. we intend to continue to spend significant amounts on our efforts to discover and develop drugs. as a result, we may incur losses in future periods as well. we anticipate that our drug discovery and development efforts and related expenditures will increase as we focus on the studies, including preclinical tests and clinical trials prior to seeking regulatory approval, that are required before we can sell a drug product. the development of drug products will require us to spend significant funds on research, development, testing, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing and marketing. to date, we do not have any drug products that have generated significant revenues other than from sales of jakafi and we cannot assure you that we will generate significant revenues from the drug candidates that we license or develop, including iclusig, for several years, if ever. we cannot be certain whether or when we will achieve profitability because of the significant uncertainties relating to our ability to generate commercially successful drug products. even if we are successful in obtaining regulatory approvals for manufacturing and commercializing drug products in addition to jakafi and iclusig, we may incur losses if our drug products do not generate significant revenues. if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability. we may need additional capital in the future. if we are unable to generate sufficient funds from operations, the capital markets may not permit us to raise additional capital at the time that we require it, which could result in limitations on our research and development or commercialization efforts or the loss of certain of our rights in our technologies or drug candidates. our future funding requirements will depend on many factors and we anticipate that we may need to raise additional capital to fund our business plan and research and development efforts going forward and to repay our indebtedness. additional factors that may affect our future funding requirements include: the amount of revenues generated from our business activities; any changes in the breadth of our research and development programs; the results of research and development, preclinical testing and clinical trials conducted by us or our current or future collaborators or licensees, if any; our exercise of any co development options with collaborators that may require us to fund future development; the acquisition of businesses, technologies, or drug candidates, or the licensing of technologies or drug candidates, if any; costs for future facility requirements; our ability to maintain and establish new corporate relationships and research collaborations; competing technological and market developments; 44 table of contents the time and costs involved in filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent and intellectual property claims; the receipt of contingent licensing or milestone fees or royalties on product sales from our current or future collaborative and license arrangements, if established; and the timing of regulatory approvals, if any. if we require additional capital at a time when investment in companies such as ours, or in the marketplace generally, is limited due to the then prevailing market or other conditions, we may have to scale back our operations, eliminate one or more of our research or development programs, or attempt to obtain funds by entering into an agreement with a collaborator or licensee that would result in terms that are not favorable to us or relinquishing our rights in certain of our proprietary technologies or drug candidates. if we are unable to raise funds at the time that we desire or at any time thereafter on acceptable terms, we may not be able to continue to develop our drug candidates. the sale of equity or additional convertible debt securities in the future may be dilutive to our stockholders and may provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our holders of common stock, and debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that could restrict our operations or our ability to incur further indebtedness. our marketable securities and long term investments are subject to risks that could adversely affect our overall financial position. we invest our cash in accordance with an established internal policy and customarily in instruments, corporate bonds and money market funds which historically have been highly liquid and carried relatively low risk. in recent periods, similar types of investments and money market funds have experienced losses in value or liquidity issues that differ from their historical pattern. should a portion of our cash or marketable securities lose value or have their liquidity impaired, it could adversely affect our overall financial position by imperiling our ability to fund our operations and forcing us to seek additional financing sooner than we would otherwise. such financing, if available, may not be available on commercially attractive terms. as discussed under other risks relating to our business we may acquire businesses or assets, form joint ventures or make investments in other companies that may be unsuccessful, divert our management attention and harm our operating results and prospects, any investments that we may make in companies with which we have strategic alliances, such as agenus and merus, could result in our recognition of losses on those investments. in addition, to the extent we may seek to sell or otherwise monetize those investments, we may not be able to do so at our desired price or valuation levels, or at all, due to the limited liquidity of some or all of those investments. any loss in value of our long term investments could adversely affect our financial position on the consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of operations. our current revenues are derived from jakafi and iclusig product sales, jakavi and olumiant product royalties, collaborations and from licensing our intellectual property. if we are unable to achieve milestones, develop products or renew or enter into new collaborations, our revenues may decrease, and future milestone and royalty payments may not contribute significantly to revenues for several years, and may never result in revenues. we derived substantially all of our revenues for the year ended december 31, 2017 from jakafi and iclusig product revenues, jakavi and olumiant product royalties and our collaborations and licensing our intellectual property to others. future revenues from research and development collaborations depend upon continuation of the collaborations, the achievement of milestones and royalties we earn from any future products developed from our research. if we are unable to successfully achieve milestones or our collaborators fail to develop successful products, we will not earn the future revenues contemplated under our collaborative agreements. for example, delays in or other limitations with respect to the approval of baricitinib in the united states for the treatment of moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis, or the failure to obtain such approval, as discussed under we depend on our collaborators and licensees for the future development and commercialization of some of our drug candidates. conflicts may arise between our collaborators and 45 table of contents licensees and us, or our collaborators and licensees may choose to terminate their agreements with us, which may adversely affect our business. would affect potential future royalty and milestone revenue. risks relating to intellectual property and legal matters if we are subject to arbitration, litigation and infringement claims, they could be costly and disrupt our drug discovery and development efforts. the technology that we use to make and develop our drug products, the technology that we incorporate in our products, and the products we are developing may be subject to claims that they infringe the patents or proprietary rights of others. the success of our drug discovery and development efforts will also depend on our ability to develop new compounds, drugs and technologies without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. we are aware of patents and patent applications filed in certain countries claiming intellectual property relating to some of our drug discovery targets and drug candidates. while the validity of issued patents, patentability of pending patent applications and applicability of any of them to our programs are uncertain, if any of these patents are asserted against us or if we choose to license any of these patents, our ability to commercialize our products could be harmed or the potential return to us from any product that may be successfully commercialized could be diminished. from time to time we have received, and we may in the future receive, notices from third parties offering licenses to technology or alleging patent, trademark, or copyright infringement, claims regarding trade secrets or other contract claims. receipt of these notices could result in significant costs as a result of the diversion of the attention of management from our drug discovery and development efforts. parties sending these notices may have brought and in the future may bring litigation against us or seek arbitration relating to contract claims. we may be involved in future lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights or contract violations. in addition, litigation or other legal proceedings may be necessary to: assert claims of infringement; enforce our patents or trademarks; protect our trade secrets or know how; or determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. we may be unsuccessful in defending or pursuing these lawsuits, claims or other legal proceedings. regardless of the outcome, litigation or other legal proceedings can be very costly and can divert management efforts. an adverse determination may subject us to significant liabilities or require us or our collaborators or licensees to seek licenses to other parties patents or proprietary rights. we or our collaborators or licensees may also be restricted or prevented from manufacturing or selling a drug or other product that we or they develop. further, we or our future collaborators or licensees may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. if we are unable to develop non infringing technology or license technology on a timely basis or on reasonable terms, our business could be harmed. we may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our proprietary information, which may result in its unauthorized use, a loss of revenue under a collaboration agreement or loss of sales to generic versions of our products or otherwise reduce our ability to compete in developing and commercializing products. our business and competitive position depends in significant part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology, including any drug products that we create. despite our efforts to protect this information, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. for example, one of our collaborators may disclose proprietary information pertaining to our drug discovery efforts. in addition, while we have filed numerous patent applications with respect to ruxolitinib and our drug candidates in the united states and in foreign countries, our patent applications may fail to result in issued patents. in addition, because patent applications can take several years to issue as patents, there may be pending patent applications of others that may later issue as patents that cover some aspect of ruxolitinib and our drug candidates. our existing patents and any future patents we may obtain may not be broad enough 46 table of contents to protect our products or all of the potential uses of our products, or otherwise prevent others from developing competing products or technologies. in addition, our patents may be challenged and invalidated or may fail to provide us with any competitive advantages if, for example, others were first to invent or first to file a patent application for the technologies and products covered by our patents. as noted above under risks relating to commercialization of our products competition for our products could potentially harm our business and result in a decrease in our revenue, a potential generic drug company competitor has challenged certain patents relating to jakafi. additionally, when we do not control the prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of certain important intellectual property, such as a drug candidate in licensed to us or subject to a collaboration with a third-party, the protection of the intellectual property rights may not be in our hands. if we do not control the intellectual property rights in licensed to us with respect to a drug candidate and the entity that controls the intellectual property rights does not adequately protect those rights, our rights may be impaired, which may impact our ability to develop, market and commercialize the in licensed drug candidate. our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate, and our competitors may: independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, products and techniques; otherwise gain access to our proprietary information; or design around patents issued to us or our other intellectual property. we pursue a policy of having our employees, consultants and advisors execute proprietary information and invention agreements when they begin working for us. however, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. if we fail to maintain trade secret and patent protection, our potential, future revenues may be decreased. if the effective term of our patents is decreased due to changes in the united states patent laws or if we need to refile some of our patent applications, the value of our patent portfolio and the revenues we derive from it may be decreased. the value of our patents depends, in part, on their duration. a shorter period of patent protection could lessen the value of our rights under any patents that we obtain and may decrease the revenues we derive from our patents. the united states patent laws were amended in 1995 to change the term of patent protection from 17 years from patent issuance to 20 years from the earliest effective filing date of the application. because the time from filing to issuance of biotechnology applications may be more than three years depending on the subject matter, a 20 year patent term from the filing date may result in substantially shorter patent protection. additionally, united states patent laws were amended in 2011 with the enactment of the america invents act and third parties are now able to challenge the validity of issued u.s. patents through various review proceedings; thus rendering the validity of u.s. patents more uncertain. we may be obligated to participate in review proceedings to determine the validity of our u.s. patents. we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these proceedings, the conduct of which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts and resources. if we are unsuccessful in these proceedings some or all of our claims in the patents may be narrowed or invalidated and the patent protection for our products and drug candidates in the united states could be substantially shortened. further, if all of the patents covering one of our products are invalidated, the fda could approve requests to manufacture a generic version of that product prior to the expiration date of those patents. other changes in the united states patent laws or changes in the interpretation of patent laws could diminish the value of our patents or narrow the scope of our patent protection. for example, the supreme court of the united states recently ruled that isolated dna sequences cannot be patented. although we no longer receive significant revenues generated from our former information products business, the majority of our gene patent portfolio from that business consists of patents on isolated dna sequences, and this ruling limits our ability to derive additional revenues from our gene patent portfolio. additionally, the supreme court recently resolved a split among the circuit courts of appeals regarding antitrust challenges to settlements of patent infringement lawsuits under the hatch waxman act between brand name drug companies and generic drug companies. the court rejected the scope of the patent test and ruled that 47 table of contents settlements involving reverse payments from brand name drug companies to generic drug companies should be analyzed under the rule of reason. this ruling may create uncertainty and make it more difficult to settle patent litigation if a company seeking to manufacture a generic version of one of our products challenges the patents covering that product prior to the expiration date of those patents. international patent protection is particularly uncertain and costly, and our involvement in opposition proceedings in foreign countries may result in the expenditure of substantial sums and management resources. biotechnology and pharmaceutical patent law outside the united states is even more uncertain and costly than in the united states and is currently undergoing review and revision in many countries. further, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as united states laws. for example, certain countries do not grant patent claims that are directed to the treatment of humans. we have participated, and may in the future participate, in opposition proceedings to determine the validity of our foreign patents or our competitors foreign patents, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts. for example, there is a patent opposition proceeding in india against our indian patent that covers the composition of matter and use of certain janus kinase inhibitors, including ruxolitinib phosphate, for the treatment of myeloid proliferative disorders, cancer, immune related diseases, skin disorders, and other diseases. successful challenges to our patent or other intellectual property rights through these proceedings could result in a loss of rights in the relevant jurisdiction and allow third parties to use our proprietary technologies without a license from us or our collaborators, which may also result in loss of future royalty payments. in addition, successful challenges may jeopardize or delay our ability to enter into new collaborations or commercialize potential products, which could harm our business and results of operations. risks relating to information technology and data privacy significant disruptions of information technology systems, breaches of data security, or unauthorized disclosures of sensitive data or personally identifiable information or individually identifiable health information could adversely affect our business, and could subject us to liability or reputational damage. our business is increasingly dependent on critical, complex, and interdependent information technology (it) systems, including internet-based systems, some of which are managed or hosted by third parties, to support business processes as well as internal and external communications. the size and complexity of our it systems make us potentially vulnerable to it system breakdowns, malicious intrusion, and computer viruses, which may result in the impairment of our ability to operate our business effectively. we are currently in the process of enhancing our it systems to address our planned growth as well as to support our planned manufacturing operations. there are inherent costs and risks associated with implementing the enhancements to our it systems, including potential delays in access to, or errors in, critical business and financial information, substantial capital expenditures, additional administrative time and operating expenses, retention of sufficiently skilled personnel to implement and operate the enhanced systems, demands on management time, and costs of delays or difficulties in transitioning to the enhanced systems, any of which could harm our business and results of operations. in addition, the implementation of enhancements to our it systems may not result in productivity improvements at a level that outweighs the costs of implementation, or at all. in addition, our systems and the systems of our third-party providers and collaborators are potentially vulnerable to data security breaches which may expose sensitive data to unauthorized persons or to the public. such data security breaches could lead to the loss of confidential information, trade secrets or other intellectual property, or could lead to the public exposure of personal information (including personally identifiable information or individually identifiable health information) of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, business partners, and others. data security breaches could also result in loss of clinical trial data or damage to the integrity of that data. in addition, the increased use of social media by our employees and contractors could result in inadvertent disclosure of sensitive data or personal information, including but not limited to, confidential information, trade secrets and other intellectual property. any such disruption or security breach, as well as any action by us or our employees or contractors that might be inconsistent with the rapidly evolving data privacy and security laws and regulations applicable within the united states and elsewhere where we conduct business, could result in enforcement actions by u.s. states, the u.s. federal government 48 table of contents or foreign governments, liability or sanctions under data privacy laws that protect personally identifiable information, regulatory penalties, other legal proceedings such as but not limited to private litigation, the incurrence of significant remediation costs, disruptions to our operations and collaborations, and damage to our reputation, which could harm our business and operations. because of the rapidly moving nature of technology and the increasing sophistication of cybersecurity threats, our measures to prevent, respond to and minimize such risks may be unsuccessful. increasing use of social media could give rise to liability, breaches of data security, or reputational damage. we and our employees are increasingly utilizing social media tools as a means of communication both internally and externally. despite our efforts to monitor evolving social media communication guidelines and comply with applicable rules, there is risk that the use of social media by us or our employees to communicate about our products or business may cause us to be found in violation of applicable requirements. in addition, our employees may knowingly or inadvertently make use of social media in ways that may not comply with our social media policy or other legal or contractual requirements, which may give rise to liability, lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or result in public exposure of personal information of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. furthermore, negative posts or comments about us or our products in social media could seriously damage our reputation, brand image, and goodwill. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 75 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market ris k our investments in marketable securities, which are composed primarily of corporate debt securities and u.s. government securities, are subject to default, changes in credit rating and changes in market value. these investments are also subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. as of december 31, 2017, marketable securities were $270.1 million. due to the nature of these investments, if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as of december 31, 2017, the decline in fair value would not be material. 75 table of contentsrisk factors 28 risk factors risks relating to commercialization of our products we depend heavily on our lead product, jakafi (ruxolitinib), which is marketed as jakavi outside the united states. if we are unable to successfully commercialize jakafi in its approved indications or to successfully obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize ruxolitinib for the treatment of additional indications, or if we are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, our business may be materially harmed. jakafi is our first and, currently, only product marketed by us that is approved for sale in the united states. it was approved by the u.s. food and drug administration, or fda, in november 2011 for the treatment of patients with intermediate or high risk myelofibrosis and in december 2014 for the treatment of patients with polycythemia vera who have had an inadequate response to or are intolerant of hydroxyurea, which we refer to as uncontrolled polycythemia vera. although we have received regulatory approval for these indications, such approval does not guarantee future revenues. while in june 2016 we acquired exclusive rights to develop and commercialize iclusig in the european union, or eu, and other countries and in june 2018 the fda approved for sale olumiant (baricitinib), which we exclusively licensed to eli lilly and company, for the treatment of specified rheumatoid arthritis indications, we anticipate that jakafi product sales will continue to contribute a significant percentage of our total revenues over the next several years. the commercial success of jakafi and our ability to generate and maintain revenues from the sale of jakafi will depend on a number of factors, including: the number of patients with intermediate or high risk myelofibrosis or uncontrolled polycythemia vera who are diagnosed with the disease and the number of such patients that may be treated with jakafi; the acceptance of jakafi by patients and the healthcare community; 28 table of contents whether physicians, patients and healthcare payors view jakafi as therapeutically effective and safe relative to cost and any alternative therapies; the ability to obtain and maintain sufficient coverage or reimbursement by third party payors; the ability of our third party manufacturers to manufacture jakafi in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality; the ability of our company and our third party providers to provide marketing and distribution support for jakafi; the label and promotional claims allowed by the fda; the maintenance of regulatory approval for the approved indications in the united states; and our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize ruxolitinib in the united states for additional indications. if we are not successful in commercializing jakafi in the united states, or are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, our business may be materially harmed and we may need to delay other drug discovery and development initiatives or even significantly curtail operations. in addition, our receipt of royalties under our collaboration agreements with novartis for sales of jakavi outside the united states and with lilly for worldwide sales of olumiant will depend on factors similar to those listed above for jurisdictions outside the united states. if we are unable to obtain, or maintain at anticipated levels, reimbursement for our products from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, our pricing may be affected or our product sales, results of operations or financial condition could be harmed. we may not be able to sell our products on a profitable basis or our profitability may be reduced if we are required to sell our products at lower than anticipated prices or reimbursement is unavailable or limited in scope or amount. jakafi and iclusig are expensive and almost all patients will require some form of third-party coverage to afford their cost. our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected if we cannot depend on government and other third party payors to defray the cost of our products to the patient. reimbursement systems in international markets vary significantly by country and by region, and reimbursement approvals must be obtained on a country-by-country basis. reimbursement in the eu must be negotiated on a country-by-country basis and in many countries the product cannot be commercially launched until reimbursement is approved. the timing to complete the negotiation process in each country is highly uncertain, and in some countries, we expect that it may exceed 12 months. risks related to pricing and reimbursement are described below under other risks relating to our business health care reform measures could impact the pricing and profitability of pharmaceuticals, and adversely affect the commercial viability of our products and drug candidates. our ability to generate revenues will be diminished if we are unable to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement from private insurers, government insurance programs or other third-party payors of health care costs, which could be affected by current and potential healthcare reform legislation. if government and other third party payors refuse to provide coverage and reimbursement with respect to our products, determine to provide a lower level of coverage and reimbursement than anticipated, or reduce previously approved levels of coverage and reimbursement, then our pricing or reimbursement for our products may be affected and our product sales, results of operations or financial condition could be harmed. 29 table of contents we depend upon a limited number of specialty pharmacies and wholesalers for a significant portion of any revenues from jakafi, and the loss of, or significant reduction in sales to, any one of these specialty pharmacies or wholesalers could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. we sell jakafi primarily to specialty pharmacies and wholesalers. specialty pharmacies dispense jakafi to patients in fulfillment of prescriptions and wholesalers sell jakafi to hospitals and physician offices. we do not promote jakafi to specialty pharmacies or wholesalers, and they do not set or determine demand for jakafi. our ability to successfully commercialize jakafi will depend, in part, on the extent to which we are able to provide adequate distribution of jakafi to patients. although we have contracted with a number of specialty pharmacies and wholesalers, they are expected generally to carry a very limited inventory and may be reluctant to be part of our distribution network in the future if demand for the product does not increase. further, it is possible that these specialty pharmacies and wholesalers could decide to change their policies or fees, or both, at some time in the future. this could result in their refusal to carry smaller volume products such as jakafi, or lower margins or the need to find alternative methods of distributing our product. although we believe we can find alternative channels to distribute jakafi on relatively short notice, our revenue during that period of time may suffer and we may incur additional costs to replace any such specialty pharmacy or wholesaler. the loss of any large specialty pharmacy or wholesaler as part of our distribution network, a significant reduction in sales we make to specialty pharmacies or wholesalers, or any failure to pay for the products we have shipped to them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. if we are unable to establish and maintain effective sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or to enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will not be able to successfully commercialize our products. prior to our commercialization of jakafi, we had no experience selling and marketing drug products and with pricing and obtaining adequate third party reimbursement for drug products. under our collaboration and license agreement with novartis, we have retained commercialization rights to jakafi in the united states. we have established commercial capabilities in the united states, but cannot guarantee that we will be able to enter into and maintain any marketing, distribution or third party logistics agreements with third party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. in connection with our june 2016 acquisition from ariad pharmaceuticals, inc. we licensed rights to develop and commercialize iclusig in certain countries and we acquired the european sales, marketing and distribution operations of ariad. we may not be able to maintain those operations or retain their personnel or distribution arrangements. we may not be able to correctly judge the size and experience of the sales and marketing force and the scale of distribution capabilities necessary to successfully market and sell our products. establishing and maintaining sales, marketing and distribution capabilities are expensive and time consuming. competition for personnel with experience in sales and marketing can be high. our expenses associated with building and maintaining the sales force and distribution capabilities may be disproportional compared to the revenues we may be able to generate on sales of our products. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could lose our approval to market our products or be subject to other governmental enforcement activity. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain regulatory approval to market our products in the jurisdictions in which they are currently marketed. if we do not maintain our regulatory approval to market our products, in particular jakafi, our results of operations will be materially harmed. we and our collaborators, third party manufacturers and suppliers are subject to rigorous and extensive regulation by the fda and other federal and state agencies as well as foreign governmental agencies. these regulations continue to apply after product marketing approval, and cover, among other things, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling, advertising, promotion, risk mitigation, and adverse event reporting requirements. the commercialization of our products is subject to post regulatory approval product surveillance, and our products may have to be withdrawn from the market or subject to restrictions if previously unknown problems occur. regulatory agencies may also require additional clinical trials or testing for our products, and our products may be recalled or may be subject to reformulation, additional studies, changes in labeling, warnings to the public and negative publicity. for example, from late 2013 through 2014, iclusig was subject to review by the european medicines agency, or ema, of the benefits and risks of iclusig to better understand the nature, frequency and severity of events obstructing the arteries or veins, the potential mechanism that leads to these side effects and whether there needed to be a revision in the 30 table of contents dosing recommendation, patient monitoring and a risk management plan for iclusig. this review was completed in january 2015, with additional warnings in the product information but without any change in the approved indications. the ema could take additional actions in the future that reduce the commercial potential of iclusig. failure to comply with the laws and regulations administered by the fda or other agencies could result in: administrative and judicial sanctions, including warning letters; fines and other civil penalties; suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval to market our products; interruption of production; operating restrictions; product recall or seizure; injunctions; and criminal prosecution. the occurrence of any such event may have a material adverse effect on our business. if the use of our products harms patients, or is perceived to harm patients even when such harm is unrelated to our products, our regulatory approvals could be revoked or otherwise negatively impacted or we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. the testing of jakafi and iclusig, the manufacturing, marketing and sale of jakafi and the marketing and sale of iclusig expose us to product liability and other risks. side effects and other problems experienced by patients from the use of our products could: lessen the frequency with which physicians decide to prescribe our products; encourage physicians to stop prescribing our products to their patients who previously had been prescribed our products; cause serious harm to patients that may give rise to product liability claims against us; and result in our need to withdraw or recall our products from the marketplace. if our products are used by a wide patient population, new risks and side effects may be discovered, the rate of known risks or side effects may increase, and risks previously viewed as less significant could be determined to be significant. previously unknown risks and adverse effects of our products may also be discovered in connection with unapproved, or off label, uses of our products. we are prohibited by law from promoting or in any way supporting or encouraging the promotion of our products for off label uses, but physicians are permitted to use products for off label purposes. in addition, we are studying and expect to continue to study jakafi in diseases for potential additional indications in controlled clinical settings, and independent investigators are doing so as well. in the event of any new risks or adverse effects discovered as new patients are treated for intermediate or high risk myelofibrosis or uncontrolled polycythemia vera and as jakafi is studied in or used by patients for off label indications, regulatory authorities may delay or revoke their approvals, we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials, make changes in labeling of 31 table of contents jakafi, reformulate jakafi or make changes and obtain new approvals. we may also experience a significant drop in the sales of jakafi, experience harm to our reputation and the reputation of jakafi in the marketplace or become subject to lawsuits, including class actions. any of these results could decrease or prevent sales of jakafi or substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing jakafi. similar results could occur with respect to our commercialization of iclusig. patients who have been enrolled in our clinical trials or who may use our products in the future often have severe and advanced stages of disease and known as well as unknown significant pre existing and potentially life threatening health risks. during the course of treatment, patients may suffer adverse events, including death, for reasons that may or may not be related to our products. such events could subject us to costly litigation, require us to pay substantial amounts of money to injured patients, delay, negatively impact or end our opportunity to receive or maintain regulatory approval to market our products, or require us to suspend or abandon our commercialization efforts. even in a circumstance in which we do not believe that an adverse event is related to our products, the investigation into the circumstance may be time consuming or inconclusive. these investigations may interrupt our sales efforts, impact and limit the type of regulatory approvals our products receive or maintain, or delay the regulatory approval process in other countries. factors similar to those listed above also apply to our collaboration partner novartis and to iclusig for jurisdictions outside the united states. if we market our products in a manner that violates various laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. in addition to fda and related regulatory requirements, we are subject to health care fraud and abuse laws, such as the federal false claims act, the anti kickback provisions of the federal social security act, and other state and federal laws and regulations. federal and state anti kickback laws prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce, or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any health care item or service reimbursable under medicare, medicaid, or other federally or state financed health care programs. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities. although physicians are permitted, based on their medical judgment, to prescribe products for indications other than those approved by the fda, manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products for such off label uses. we market jakafi for intermediate or high risk myelofibrosis and uncontrolled polycythemia vera and provide promotional materials to physicians regarding the use of jakafi for these indications. although we believe that our promotional materials for physicians do not constitute off label promotion of jakafi, the fda or other agencies may disagree. if the fda or another agency determines that our promotional materials or other activities constitute off label promotion of jakafi, it could request that we modify our promotional materials or other activities or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. it is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they believe that the alleged improper promotion led to the submission and payment of claims for an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. even if it is later determined we are not in violation of these laws, we may be faced with negative publicity, incur significant expenses defending our position and have to divert significant management resources from other matters. the european union and member countries impose similar strict restrictions on the promotion and marketing of drug products. the off-label promotion of medicinal products is prohibited in the eu and in other territories. the promotion of medicinal products that are not subject to a marketing authorization is also prohibited in the eu. violations of the rules governing the promotion of medicinal products in the eu and in other territories could be penalized by administrative measures, fines and imprisonment. the majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply 32 table of contents regardless of the payor. in recent years, several states and localities, including california, connecticut, the district of columbia, massachusetts, minnesota, nevada, new mexico, texas, vermont, and west virginia, have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. similar legislation is being considered in other states. additionally, as part of the patient protection and affordable care act, the federal government has enacted the physician payment sunshine provisions. the sunshine provisions require manufacturers to publicly report certain payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals. many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements are unclear. nonetheless, if we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement action and fines and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity. see also other risks relating to our business if we fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory requirements affecting the health care industry, we could face increased costs, penalties and a loss of business below. competition for our products could harm our business and result in a decrease in our revenue. present and potential competitors for jakafi could include major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as specialty pharmaceutical firms. for example, in january 2019, celgene corporation announced that it had submitted an nda for fedratinib, a drug candidate for the treatment of myelofibrosis, and expected fda approval by year-end 2019. see other risks relating to our business we face significant competition for our drug discovery and development efforts, and if we do not compete effectively, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated for a description of risks relating to this type of competition. in addition, jakafi could face competition from generic products. as a result of the drug price competition and patent term restoration act of 1984, commonly known as the hatch-waxman act, in the united states, generic manufacturers may seek approval of a generic version of an innovative pharmaceutical by filing with the fda an abbreviated new drug application, or anda. the hatch-waxman act provides significant incentives to generic manufacturers to challenge u.s. patents on successful innovative pharmaceutical products. in february 2016, we received a notice letter regarding an anda that requested approval to market a generic version of jakafi and purported to challenge patents covering ruxolitinib phosphate and its use that expire in 2028. the notice letter does not challenge the ruxolitinib composition of matter patent, which expires in december 2027. to date, to our knowledge, the fda has taken no action with respect to this anda. separately, in january 2018 the patent trial and appeal board of united states patent and trademark office denied a petition challenging our patent covering deuterated ruxolitinib analogs, although the challenging party retains the right to challenge the validity of the patent in federal court. there can be no assurance that our patents will be upheld or that any litigation in which we might engage with any such generic manufacturer would be successful in protecting jakafi exclusivity. the entry of a generic version of jakafi could result in a decrease in jakafi sales and materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. iclusig currently competes with existing therapies that are approved for the treatment of patients with chronic myeloid leukemia, or cml, who are resistant or intolerant to prior tyrosine kinase inhibitor, or tki, therapies, on the basis of, among other things, efficacy, cost, breadth of approved use and the safety and side-effect profile. in addition, a generic version of imatinib was launched in the united states in february 2016, and generic versions are expected to be launched in other markets. although we currently believe that generic versions of imatinib will not materially impact our commercialization of iclusig, given iclusig various indication statements globally that are currently focused on resistant or intolerant cml, we cannot be certain how physicians, payors, patients, regulatory authorities and other market participants will respond to the availability of generic versions of imatinib. other risks relating to our business we may be unsuccessful in our efforts to discover and develop drug candidates and commercialize drug products. none of our drug candidates, other than jakafi/jakavi, has received regulatory approval. our ability to discover and develop drug candidates and to commercialize additional drug products will depend on our ability to: hire and retain key employees; identify high quality therapeutic targets; 33 table of contents identify potential drug candidates; develop products internally or license drug candidates from others; identify and enroll suitable human subjects, either in the united states or abroad, for our clinical trials; complete laboratory testing; commence, conduct and complete safe and effective clinical trials on humans; obtain and maintain necessary intellectual property rights to our products; obtain and maintain necessary regulatory approvals for our products, both in the united states and abroad; enter into arrangements with third parties to provide services or to manufacture our products on our behalf; deploy sales and marketing resources effectively or enter into arrangements with third parties to provide these functions in compliance with all applicable laws; obtain appropriate coverage and reimbursement levels for the cost of our products from governmental authorities, private health insurers and other third party payors; lease facilities at reasonable rates to support our growth; and enter into arrangements with third parties to license and commercialize our products. we have limited experience with many of the activities listed above and may not be successful in discovering, developing, or commercializing additional drug products. discovery and development of drug candidates are expensive, uncertain and time consuming, and we do not know if our efforts will lead to discovery of any drug candidates that can be successfully developed and marketed. of the compounds or biologics that we identify as potential drug products or that we may in license from other companies, including potential products for which we are conducting clinical trials, only a few, if any, are likely to lead to successful drug development programs and commercialized drug products. we depend heavily on the success of our most advanced drug candidates. we might not be able to commercialize any of our drug candidates successfully, and we may spend significant time and money attempting to do so. we have invested significant resources in the development of our most advanced drug candidates. ruxolitinib is in phase iii clinical trials for the treatment of patients with steroid-refractory graft-versus-host disease and is in other clinical trials. itacitinib is in a phase iii clinical trial for the treatment of patients with acute graft-versus-host disease. further, we have a number of drug candidates in phase i and phase ii clinical trials. our ability to generate product revenues will depend on the successful development and eventual commercialization of our most advanced drug candidates. we, or our collaborators or licensees, may decide to discontinue development of any or all of our drug candidates at any time for commercial, scientific or other reasons. for example: in early 2016, we decided to discontinue the clinical trials of ruxolitinib in pancreatic cancer and solid tumors and itacitinib in pancreatic cancer; and, in april 2018, we along with merck stopped the echo-301 study with epacadostat, and we also significantly downsized the epacadostat development 34 table of contents program. if a product is developed but not approved or marketed, we may have spent significant amounts of time and money on it, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition as well as our business plans. if we or our collaborators are unable to obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates in the united states and foreign jurisdictions, we or our collaborators will not be permitted to commercialize products resulting from our research. in order to commercialize drug products in the united states, drug candidates will have to obtain regulatory approval from the fda. satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years. to obtain regulatory approval, we or our collaborators, as the case may be, must first show that our drug candidates are safe and effective for target indications through preclinical testing (animal testing) and clinical trials (human testing). preclinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes, and we do not know whether the fda will allow us or our collaborators to undertake clinical trials of any drug candidates in addition to our compounds currently in clinical trials. if regulatory approval of a product is granted, this approval will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which the product is demonstrated through clinical trials to be safe and effective. completion of clinical trials may take several years and failure may occur at any stage of testing. the length of time required varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the drug candidate. interim results of a preclinical test or clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results, and acceptable results in early clinical trials may not be repeated in later clinical trials. for example, a drug candidate that is successful at the preclinical level may cause harmful or dangerous side effects when tested at the clinical level. our rate of commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed, and existing clinical trials with our drug candidates may be stopped, due to many potential factors, including: the high degree of risk and uncertainty associated with drug development; our inability to formulate or manufacture sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials; variability in the number and types of patients available for each study; difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, resulting in incomplete data; unforeseen safety issues or side effects; poor or unanticipated effectiveness of drug candidates during the clinical trials; or government or regulatory delays. data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretation, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. many companies in the pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industry, including our company, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving promising results in earlier clinical trials. in addition, regulatory authorities may refuse or delay approval as a result of other factors, such as changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development and regulatory agency review. for example, the fda has in the past required, and could in the future require, that we or our collaborators conduct additional trials of any of our drug candidates, which would result in delays. in april 2017, we and our collaborator lilly announced that the fda had issued a complete response letter for the new drug application, or nda, of olumiant as a once-daily oral medication for the treatment of moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis. the letter indicated that additional clinical data were needed to determine the most appropriate doses and to further characterize safety concerns across treatment arms. in june 2018, after a resubmission of the nda, the fda approved the 2mg dose of olumiant for the treatment of adults with moderately-to-severely active rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate response to one or more tumor necrosis factor inhibitor therapies. the fda did not at that time approve any higher dose of olumiant and required a warning label in connection with its approval. 35 table of contents compounds or biologics developed by us or with or by our collaborators and licensees may not prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials and may not meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements needed to receive marketing approval. for example, in january 2016, a phase ii trial that was evaluating ruxolitinib in combination with regorafenib in patients with relapsed or refractory metastatic colorectal cancer and high c-reactive protein was stopped early after a planned analysis of interim efficacy data determined that the likelihood of the trial meeting its efficacy endpoint was insufficient. in addition, in february 2016, we made a decision to discontinue our janus 1 study, our janus 2 study, our other studies of ruxolitinib in colorectal, breast and lung cancer, and our study of incb39110 in pancreatic cancer after a planned analysis of interim efficacy data of janus 1 demonstrated that ruxolitinib plus capecitabine did not show a sufficient level of efficacy to warrant continuation. also, in april 2018, we along with merck announced that the echo-301 study had been stopped and we also significantly downsized the epacadostat development program. if clinical trials of any of our compounds or biologics are stopped for safety, efficacy or other reasons or fail to meet their respective endpoints, our overall development plans, business, prospects, expected operating results and financial condition could be materially harmed and the value of our company could be negatively affected. outside the united states, our and our collaborators ability to market a product is contingent upon receiving a marketing authorization from the appropriate regulatory authorities. this foreign regulatory approval process typically includes all of the risks associated with the fda approval process described above and may also include additional risks. the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country and may require us to perform additional testing and expend additional resources. approval by the fda does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or by the fda. health care reform measures could impact the pricing and profitability of pharmaceuticals, and adversely affect the commercial viability of our products and drug candidates. our ability to generate revenues will be diminished if we are unable to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement from private insurers, government insurance programs or other third party payors of health care costs, which could be affected by current and potential healthcare reform legislation. our ability to commercialize our current and any future approved products successfully will depend in part on the extent to which adequate reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatment are obtained from third party payors, such as private insurers, government insurance programs, including medicare and medicaid, health maintenance organizations (hmos) and other health care related organizations. in recent years, through legislative and regulatory actions, the federal government has made substantial changes to various payment systems under the medicare and other federal health care programs. comprehensive reforms to the u.s. healthcare system were enacted, including changes to the methods for, and amounts of, medicare reimbursement. while there is currently significant uncertainty regarding the implementation of some of these reforms or the scope of amended or additional reforms, the implementation of reforms could significantly reduce payments from medicare and medicaid. reforms or other changes to these payment systems, may change the availability, methods and rates of reimbursements from medicare, private insurers and other third-party payors for our current and any future approved products. some of these changes and proposed changes could result in reduced reimbursement rates or in eliminating dual sources of payment, which could reduce the price that we or any of our collaborators or licensees receive for any products in the future, and which would adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. further federal and state proposals to regulate prices of pharmaceutical products and other health care reforms are possible, which could limit the prices that can be charged for any of our products and may further limit the commercial viability of our products and drug candidates. in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. if reimbursement for our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our business could be materially harmed. there may be future changes that result in reductions in current coverage and reimbursement levels for our current or any future approved products, and we cannot predict the scope of any future changes or the impact that those changes would have on our operations. third party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. also, the trend toward managed health care in the united states, the organizations for which could control or significantly influence the purchase of health care services and products, as well as legislative and regulatory proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may all result in lower prices for or rejection of our products. adoption of our 36 table of contents products by the medical community may be limited without adequate reimbursement for those products. cost control initiatives may decrease coverage and payment levels for our products and, in turn, the price that we will be able to charge for any product. our products may not be considered cost effective, and coverage and reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis. we are unable to predict all changes to the coverage or reimbursement methodologies that will be applied by private or government payors to our current and any future approved products. the continuing efforts of legislatures, health agencies and third party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care, any denial of private or government payor coverage or inadequate reimbursement for our drug candidates could materially and adversely affect our business strategy, operations, future revenues and profitability, and the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers, collaborators and licensees and the availability of capital. the same risks apply to our compounds developed and marketed by our collaborators, and our future potential milestone and royalty revenues could be affected in a similar manner. we depend on our collaborators and licensees for the future development and commercialization of some of our drug candidates. conflicts may arise between our collaborators and licensees and us, or our collaborators and licensees may choose to terminate their agreements with us, which may adversely affect our business. we have licensed to novartis rights to ruxolitinib outside of the united states and worldwide rights to our met inhibitor compounds and licensed to lilly worldwide rights to baricitinib. in addition, we have licensed to innovent certain asian rights to three of our clinical stage compounds. under the terms of our agreements with these collaborators, we have no or limited control over the further clinical development of these drug candidates in the relevant territories and any revenues we may receive if these drug candidates receive regulatory approval and are commercialized in the relevant territories will depend primarily on the development and commercialization efforts of others. while olumiant was approved by the european commission in february 2017 for the treatment of moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients and by japan ministry of health, labor and welfare in july 2017 for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis in patients with inadequate response to standard-of-care therapies, the nda for olumiant for the treatment of moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis was approved in june 2018, and only in the lower dosage tablet and with a warning label. delays in any marketing approval by the fda, european or other regulatory authorities, or any label modifications or restrictions in connection with any such approval, or the existence of other risks relating to approved drug products, including those described under risks relating to commercialization of our products, could delay the receipt of and reduce resulting potential royalty and milestone revenue from baricitinib or any of our other out-licensed drug candidates. conflicts may arise with our collaborators and licensees if they pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products either on their own or in collaboration with others as a means for developing treatments for the diseases that we have targeted. competing products and product opportunities may lead our collaborators and licensees to withdraw their support for our drug candidates. any failure of our collaborators and licensees to perform their obligations under our agreements with them or otherwise to support our drug candidates could negatively impact the development of our drug candidates, lead to our loss of potential revenues from product sales and milestones and delay our achievement, if any, of profitability. additionally, conflicts may arise if, among other things, there is a dispute about the achievement and payment of a milestone amount or the ownership of intellectual property that is developed during the course of a collaborative relationship. our existing collaborative and license agreements can be terminated by our collaborators and licensees for convenience, among other circumstances. if any of our collaborators or licensees terminates its agreement with us, or terminates its rights with respect to certain indications or drug candidates, we may not be able to find a new collaborator for them, and our business could be adversely affected. should an agreement be terminated before we have realized the benefits of the collaboration or license, our reputation could be harmed, we may not obtain revenues that we anticipated receiving, and our business could be adversely affected. 37 table of contents the success of our drug discovery and development efforts may depend on our ability to find suitable collaborators to fully exploit our capabilities. if we are unable to establish collaborations or if these future collaborations are unsuccessful in the development and commercialization of our drug candidates, our research, development and commercialization efforts may be unsuccessful, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. an element of our business strategy is to enter into collaborative or license arrangements with other parties, under which we license our drug candidates to those parties for development and commercialization or under which we study our drug candidates in combination with other parties compounds or biologics. for example, in addition to our novartis, lilly and innovent collaborations, we have entered into clinical study relationships with respect to several of our programs, including epacadostat, and are evaluating strategic relationships with respect to several of our other programs. however, because collaboration and license arrangements are complex to negotiate, we may not be successful in our attempts to establish these arrangements. also, we may not have drug candidates that are desirable to other parties, or we may be unwilling to license a drug candidate to a particular party because such party interested in it is a competitor or for other reasons. the terms of any such arrangements that we establish may not be favorable to us. alternatively, potential collaborators may decide against entering into an agreement with us because of our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position or for scientific, commercial or other reasons. if we are not able to establish collaboration or license arrangements, we may not be able to develop and commercialize a drug product, which could adversely affect our business and our revenues. we will likely not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators or licensees devote to our programs or drug candidates. if our collaborators or licensees prove difficult to work with, are less skilled than we originally expected, do not devote adequate resources to the program, are unable to obtain regulatory approval of our drug candidates, pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products, or do not agree with our approach to development or manufacturing of the drug candidate, the relationship could be unsuccessful. our collaborations with respect to epacadostat involved the study of our collaborators drugs used in combination with epacadostat on a number of indications or tumor types, many of which were the same across multiple collaborations. we cannot assure you that potential conflicts will not arise or be alleged among these collaborations. if a business combination involving a collaborator or licensee and a third-party were to occur, the effect could be to terminate or cause delays in development of a drug candidate. if we fail to enter into additional licensing agreements or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our business and operations might be adversely affected. in addition to establishing collaborative or license arrangements under which other parties license our drug candidates for development and commercialization or under which we study our drug candidates in combination with such parties compounds or biologics, we may explore opportunities to develop our clinical pipeline by in-licensing drug candidates or therapeutics targets that fit within our focus on oncology, such as our collaborations with agenus inc., calithera biosciences, inc., innovent biologics, inc., macrogenics, inc., merus n.v., and syros pharmaceuticals, inc., or explore additional opportunities to further develop and commercialize existing drug candidates in specific jurisdictions, such as our june 2016 acquisition of the development and commercialization rights to iclusig in certain countries. we may be unable to enter into any additional in-licensing agreements because suitable drug candidates that are within our expertise may not be available to us on terms that are acceptable to us or because competitors with greater resources seek to in-license the same drug candidates. drug candidates that we would like to develop or commercialize may not be available to us because they are controlled by competitors who are unwilling to license the rights to the drug candidate to us. in addition, we may enter into license agreements that are unsuccessful and our business and operations might be adversely affected if we are unable to realize the expected economic benefits of a collaboration or other licensing arrangement, by the termination of a drug candidate and termination and winding down of the related license agreement, or due to other business or regulatory issues, including financial difficulties, that may adversely affect a licensor ability to continue to perform its obligations under an in-license agreement. as discussed above under we depend on our collaborators and licensees for the future development and commercialization of some of our drug candidates. conflicts may arise between our collaborators and licensees and us, or our collaborators and licensees may choose to terminate their agreements with us, which may adversely affect our business, conflicts or other issues may arise with our licensors. those conflicts could result in delays in our plans to develop drug candidates or result in the expenditure of additional funds to 38 table of contents resolve those conflicts that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we may also need to license drug delivery or other technology in order to continue to develop our drug candidates. if we are unable to enter into additional agreements to license drug candidates, drug delivery technology or other technology or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our research and development efforts could be adversely affected. even if a drug candidate that we develop receives regulatory approval, we may decide not to commercialize it if we determine that commercialization of that product would require more money and time than we are willing to invest. even if any of our drug candidates receives regulatory approval, it could be subject to post regulatory surveillance, and may have to be withdrawn from the market or subject to restrictions if previously unknown problems occur. regulatory agencies may also require additional clinical trials or testing, and the drug product may be recalled or may be subject to reformulation, additional studies, changes in labeling, warnings to the public and negative publicity. as a result, we may not continue to commercialize a product even though it has obtained regulatory approval. further, we may decide not to continue to commercialize a product if the market does not accept the product because it is too expensive or because third parties such as insurance companies or medicare, have not approved it for substantial reimbursement. in addition, we may decide not to continue to commercialize a product if competitors develop and commercialize similar or superior products or have proprietary rights that preclude us from ultimately marketing our products. any approved drug product that we bring to the market may not gain market acceptance by physicians, patients, healthcare payors and others in the medical community. even if we are successful in gaining regulatory approval of any of our drug candidates in addition to jakafi or acquire rights to approved drug products in addition to iclusig, we may not generate significant product revenues and we may not become profitable if these drug products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance. physicians may not recommend our drug products until longer term clinical data or other factors demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our drug products as compared to other alternative treatments. even if the clinical safety and efficacy of our drug products is established, physicians may elect not to prescribe these drug products for a variety of reasons, including the reimbursement policies of government and other third party payors and the effectiveness of our competitors in marketing their products. market acceptance of our drug products, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including: the willingness and ability of patients and the healthcare community to use our drug products; the ability to manufacture our drug products in sufficient quantities with acceptable quality and to offer our drug products for sale at competitive prices; the perception of patients and the healthcare community, including third party payors, regarding the safety, efficacy and benefits of our drug products compared to those of competing products or therapies; the label and promotional claims allowed by the fda; the pricing and reimbursement of our drug products relative to existing treatments; and marketing and distribution support for our drug products. we have limited capacity to conduct preclinical testing and clinical trials, and our resulting dependence on other parties could result in delays in and additional costs for our drug development efforts. we have limited internal resources and capacity to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials. as part of our development strategy, we often hire clinical research organizations, or cros, to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials for drug candidates. if the cros that we hire to perform our preclinical testing and clinical trials do not meet deadlines, do not follow proper procedures, or a conflict arises between us and our cros, our preclinical testing and 39 table of contents clinical trials may take longer than expected, may cost more, may be delayed or may be terminated. if we were forced to find a replacement entity to perform any of our preclinical testing or clinical trials, we may not be able to find a suitable entity on favorable terms, or at all. even if we were able to find another company to perform a preclinical test or clinical trial, the delay in the test or trial may result in significant additional expenditures. events such as these may result in delays in our obtaining regulatory approval for our drug candidates or our ability to commercialize our products and could result in increased expenditures that would adversely affect our operating results. we face significant competition for our drug discovery and development efforts, and if we do not compete effectively, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated. the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. our drug discovery and development efforts may target diseases and conditions that are already subject to existing therapies or that are being developed by our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, more experience in completing preclinical testing and clinical trials, and formulation, marketing and manufacturing capabilities. as a result of these resources, our competitors may develop drug products that render our products obsolete or noncompetitive by developing more effective drugs, developing their products more efficiently or pricing their products more competitively. our ability to develop competitive products would be limited if our competitors succeeded in obtaining regulatory approvals for drug candidates more rapidly than we were able to or in obtaining patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limited our drug development efforts. any drug products resulting from our research and development efforts, or from our joint efforts with collaborators or licensees, might not be able to compete successfully with our competitors existing and future products, or obtain regulatory approval in the united states or elsewhere. the development of products or processes by our competitors with significant advantages over those that we are developing could harm our future revenues and profitability. our reliance on other parties to manufacture our drug products and drug candidates could result in a short supply of the drugs, delays in clinical trials or drug development, increased costs, and withdrawal or denial of a regulatory authority approval. we do not currently operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of jakafi and our other drug candidates or for iclusig. we currently hire third parties to manufacture the raw materials, active pharmaceutical ingredient, or api, and finished drug product of jakafi, iclusig and our other drug candidates for clinical trials. in addition, we expect to continue to rely on third parties for the manufacture of commercial supplies of raw materials, api and finished drug product for any drugs that we successfully develop. we also hire third parties to package and label the finished product. the fda requires that the raw materials, api and finished product for jakafi and our other drug candidates be manufactured according to its current good manufacturing practices regulations and regulatory authorities in other countries have similar requirements. there are only a limited number of manufacturers that comply with these requirements. failure to comply with current good manufacturing practices and the applicable regulatory requirements of other countries in the manufacture of our drug candidates and products could result in the fda or a foreign regulatory authority halting our clinical trials, withdrawing or denying regulatory approval of our drug product, enforcing product recalls or other enforcement actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of our drug candidates or any drug products we may develop if our designated manufacturers do not have the capacity or capability to manufacture them according to our schedule and specifications. manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, especially in scaling up initial production. these problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control and assurance and shortages of qualified personnel. in addition, we may not be able to arrange for our drug candidates or any drug products that we may develop to be manufactured by one of these parties on reasonable terms, if at all. we generally have a single source or a limited number of suppliers that are qualified to supply each of the api and finished product of jakafi, iclusig and our other drug candidates and, in the case of jakafi, we only have a single source for its raw materials. if any of these suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to supply us with raw materials, api or finished product that complies with applicable regulatory requirements, we could incur significant delays in our clinical trials or interruption of commercial supply that could have a material adverse effect on our business. if we have promised delivery of a drug candidate or drug product and are unable to meet the delivery requirement due to manufacturing difficulties, our development programs could be delayed, we may have to expend additional sums in order to ensure that manufacturing 40 table of contents capacity is available when we need it even if we do not use all of the manufacturing capacity, and our business and operating results could be harmed. we may not be able to adequately manage and oversee the manufacturers we choose, they may not perform as agreed or they may terminate their agreements with us. foreign manufacturing approval processes typically include all of the risks associated with the fda approval process for manufacturing and may also include additional risks. a number of our collaborations involve the manufacture of antibodies. either we or our collaborators have primary responsibility for manufacturing activities, and we are currently using third-party contract manufacturing organizations. manufacturing antibodies and products containing antibodies is a more complex process than manufacturing small molecule drugs and subject to additional risks. the process of manufacturing antibodies and products containing antibodies is highly susceptible to product loss due to contamination, equipment failure or improper installation or operation of equipment, vendor or operator error, inconsistency in yields, variability in product characteristics, and difficulties in scaling the production process. even minor deviations from normal manufacturing processes could result in reduced production yields, product defects and other supply disruptions. if microbial, viral or other contaminations are discovered in our product candidates or in the manufacturing facilities in which our product candidates are made, such manufacturing facilities may need to be closed for an extended period of time to investigate and remedy the contamination. if we fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory requirements affecting the health care industry, we could face increased costs, penalties and a loss of business. our activities, and the activities of our collaborators, partners and third party providers, are subject to extensive government regulation and oversight both in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions. the fda and comparable agencies in other jurisdictions directly regulate many of our most critical business activities, including the conduct of preclinical and clinical studies, product manufacturing, advertising and promotion, product distribution, adverse event reporting and product risk management. states increasingly have been placing greater restrictions on the marketing practices of healthcare companies. in addition, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been the target of lawsuits and investigations alleging violations of government regulations, including claims asserting submission of incorrect pricing information, impermissible off label promotion of pharmaceutical products, payments intended to influence the referral of federal or state healthcare business, submission of false claims for government reimbursement, antitrust violations, violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and similar anti bribery or anti corruption laws, or violations related to environmental matters. there is also enhanced scrutiny of company-sponsored patient assistance programs, including insurance premium and co-pay assistance programs and donations to third-party charities that provide such assistance. in december 2018, we received a civil investigative demand from the u.s. department of justice for documents and information relating to our speaker programs and patient assistance programs, including our support of non-profit organizations that provide financial assistance to eligible patients. violations of governmental regulation by us, our vendors or donation recipients may be punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including damages, fines and penalties and exclusion from participation in government programs, including medicare and medicaid. in addition to damages, fines and penalties for violation of laws and regulations, we could be required to repay amounts we received from government payors, or pay additional rebates and interest if we are found to have miscalculated the pricing information we have submitted to the government. actions taken by federal or local governments, legislative bodies and enforcement agencies with respect to these legal and regulatory compliance matters could also result in reduced demand for our products, reduced coverage of our products by health care payors, or both. we cannot ensure that our compliance controls, policies, and procedures will in every instance protect us from acts committed by our employees, collaborators, partners or third party providers that would violate the laws or regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate. whether or not we have complied with the law, an investigation into alleged unlawful conduct could increase our expenses, damage our reputation, divert management time and attention and adversely affect our business. risks relating to compliance with laws and regulations may be heightened as we continue to expand our global operations and enter new therapeutic areas with different patient populations, which due to different product distribution methods, marketing programs or patient assistance programs may result in additional regulatory burdens and obligations. 41 table of contents as our drug discovery and development operations are conducted at our headquarters in wilmington, delaware, the loss of access to this facility would negatively impact our business. our facility in wilmington, delaware is our headquarters and is also where we conduct all of our drug discovery, research, development and marketing activities. in addition, natural disasters or actions of activists opposed to aspects of pharmaceutical research may disrupt our experiments or our ability to access or use our facility. the loss of access to or use of our wilmington, delaware facility, either on a temporary or permanent basis would result in an interruption of our business and, consequently, would adversely affect our overall business. we depend on key employees in a competitive market for skilled personnel, and the loss of the services of any of our key employees or our inability to attract and retain additional personnel would affect our ability to expand our drug discovery and development programs and achieve our objectives. we are highly dependent on the members of our executive management team and principal members of our commercial, development, medical, operations and scientific staff. we experience intense competition for qualified personnel. our future success also depends in part on the continued service of our executive management team and key personnel and our ability to recruit, train and retain essential personnel for our drug discovery and development programs, and for our medical affairs and commercialization activities. if we lose the services of any of these people or if we are unable to recruit sufficient qualified personnel, our research and product development goals, and our commercialization efforts could be delayed or curtailed. we do not maintain key person insurance on any of our employees. if we fail to manage our growth effectively, our ability to develop and commercialize products could suffer. we expect that if our drug discovery efforts continue to generate drug candidates, our clinical drug candidates continue to progress in development, and we continue to build our development, medical and commercial organizations, we will require significant additional investment in personnel, management and resources. our ability to achieve our research, development and commercialization objectives depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands and expand our internal organization, systems, controls and facilities to accommodate additional anticipated growth. if we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business could be harmed and our ability to execute our business strategy could suffer. we may acquire businesses or assets, form joint ventures or make investments in other companies that may be unsuccessful, divert our management attention and harm our operating results and prospects. as part of our business strategy, we may pursue additional acquisitions of what we believe to be complementary businesses or assets or seek to enter into joint ventures. we also may pursue strategic alliances in an effort to leverage our existing infrastructure and industry experience to expand our product offerings or distribution, or make investments in other companies. for example, in june 2016, we completed the acquisition of the european operations of ariad and obtained the exclusive license to develop and commercialize iclusig in europe and other countries. the success of our acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances and investments will depend on our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and, in the case of acquisitions, integrate those transactions and, if necessary, obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing to fund those transactions. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, joint venture, strategic alliance or investment. we may not be able to integrate acquisitions successfully into our existing business, maintain the key business relationships of businesses we acquire, or retain key personnel of an acquired business, and we could assume unknown or contingent liabilities or incur unanticipated expenses. integration of acquired companies or businesses also may require management resources that otherwise would be available for ongoing development of our existing business. any acquisitions or investments made by us also could result in significant write-offs or the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could harm our operating results. for example, in the year ended december 31, 2018, we recorded unrealized losses related to our investments in agenus inc., calithera biosciences, inc., merus n.v. and syros pharmaceuticals, inc., and we may in the future experience additional losses related to our investments. in addition, if we choose to issue shares of our stock as consideration for any acquisition, dilution to our stockholders could result. 42 table of contents risks associated with the expansion of our operations outside of the united states could adversely affect our business. our acquisition of ariad european operations significantly expanded our operations in europe, and we plan to continue to expand our operations and conduct certain development activities outside of the united states, including our recent expansion in japan. we have limited experience with conducting activities outside of the united states. international operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous additional risks, including: multiple, conflicting and changing laws and regulations such as tax laws, privacy regulations, tariffs, export and import restrictions, employment, immigration and labor laws, regulatory requirements, and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations and difficulties in connection with assimilating and integrating any operations and personnel we might acquire into our company; risks associated with obtaining and maintaining, or the failure to obtain or maintain, regulatory approvals for the sale or use of our products in various countries; complexities associated with managing government payor systems, multiple payor reimbursement regimes or patient self pay systems; financial risks, such as longer payment cycles, difficulty obtaining financing in foreign markets, difficulty enforcing contracts and intellectual property rights, difficulty collecting accounts receivable and exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; general political and economic conditions in the countries in operate, including terrorism and political unrest, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions, and uncertainties associated with the future relationship between the united kingdom and the european union; and regulatory and compliance risks that relate to maintaining accurate information and control over activities that may fall within the purview of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, its books and records provisions or its anti bribery provisions, or similar anti bribery or anti corruption laws and regulations, such as the u.k. anti-bribery act and the u.k. criminal finances act. any of the risks described above, if encountered, could significantly increase our costs of operating internationally, prevent us from operating in certain jurisdictions, or otherwise significantly harm our future international expansion and operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we could face substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products and our results of operations could be harmed. in addition to the risks described above under risks relating to commercialization of our products if the use of our products harms patients, or is perceived to harm patients even when such harm is unrelated to our products, our regulatory approvals could be revoked or otherwise negatively impacted or we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims, the conduct of clinical trials of medical products that are intended for human use entails an inherent risk of product liability. if any product that we or any of our collaborators or licensees develops causes or is alleged to cause injury during clinical trials or commercialization, we may be held liable. if we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities, including substantial damages to be paid to the plaintiffs and legal costs, or we may be required to limit further development and commercialization of our products. additionally, any product liability lawsuit could cause injury to our reputation, participants and investigators to withdraw from clinical trials, and potential collaborators or licensees to seek other partners, any of which could impact our results of operations. 43 table of contents our product liability insurance policy may not fully cover our potential liabilities. in addition, we may determine that we should increase our coverage, and this insurance may be prohibitively expensive to us or our collaborators or licensees and may not fully cover our potential liabilities. since december 30, 2017, we elected to self-insure a portion of our exposure to product liability risks through our wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiary, in tandem with third-party insurance policies. our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the development or commercialization of our drug candidates and products, and if our liabilities from any such claims exceed our third-party insurance limits and self-insurance reserves, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely impacted. because our activities involve the use of hazardous materials, we may be subject to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials that could be time consuming and costly. we are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the use, handling, storage and disposal of regulated substances and the health and safety of our employees. our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous and radioactive materials and biological waste resulting in the production of hazardous waste products. we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. if any injury or contamination results from our use or the use by our collaborators or licensees of these materials, we may be sued and our liability may exceed our insurance coverage and our total assets. further, we may be required to indemnify our collaborators or licensees against all damages and other liabilities arising out of our development activities or products produced in connection with these collaborations or licenses. compliance with the applicable environmental and workplace laws and regulations is expensive. future changes to environmental, health, workplace and safety laws could cause us to incur additional expense or may restrict our operations or impair our research, development and production efforts. risks relating to our financial results we may incur losses in the future, and we expect to continue to incur significant expenses to discover and develop drugs, which may make it difficult for us to achieve sustained profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. due to historical net losses, we had an accumulated deficit of $1.9 billion as of december 31, 2018. we intend to continue to spend significant amounts on our efforts to discover and develop drugs. as a result, we may incur losses in future periods as well. our revenues, expenses and net income (loss) may fluctuate, even significantly, due to the risks described in these risk factors and factors discussed in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations as well as the timing of charges and expenses that we may take, including those relating to transactions such as acquisitions and the entry into collaborative agreements. we anticipate that our drug discovery and development efforts and related expenditures will increase as we focus on the studies, including preclinical tests and clinical trials prior to seeking regulatory approval, that are required before we can sell a drug product. the development of drug products will require us to spend significant funds on research, development, testing, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing and marketing. to date, we do not have any drug products that have generated significant revenues other than from sales of jakafi and we cannot assure you that we will generate significant revenues from the drug candidates that we license or develop, including iclusig, for several years, if ever. we cannot be certain whether or when we will achieve sustained or increased profitability on a quarterly or annual basis because of the factors discussed above and the significant uncertainties relating to our ability to generate commercially successful drug products. even if we are successful in obtaining regulatory approvals for manufacturing and commercializing drug products in addition to jakafi and iclusig, we may incur losses if our drug products do not generate significant revenues. 44 table of contents we may need additional capital in the future. if we are unable to generate sufficient funds from operations, the capital markets may not permit us to raise additional capital at the time that we require it, which could result in limitations on our research and development or commercialization efforts or the loss of certain of our rights in our technologies or drug candidates. our future funding requirements will depend on many factors and we anticipate that we may need to raise additional capital to fund our business plan and research and development efforts going forward. additional factors that may affect our future funding requirements include: the amount of revenues generated from our business activities; any changes in the breadth of our research and development programs; the results of research and development, preclinical testing and clinical trials conducted by us or our current or future collaborators or licensees, if any; our exercise of any co development options with collaborators that may require us to fund future development; the acquisition of businesses, technologies, or drug candidates, or the licensing of technologies or drug candidates, if any; costs for future facility requirements; our ability to maintain and establish new corporate relationships and research collaborations; competing technological and market developments; the time and costs involved in filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent and intellectual property claims; the receipt of contingent licensing or milestone fees or royalties on product sales from our current or future collaborative and license arrangements, if established; and the timing of regulatory approvals, if any. if we require additional capital at a time when investment in companies such as ours, or in the marketplace generally, is limited due to the then prevailing market or other conditions, we may have to scale back our operations, eliminate one or more of our research or development programs, or attempt to obtain funds by entering into an agreement with a collaborator or licensee that would result in terms that are not favorable to us or relinquishing our rights in certain of our proprietary technologies or drug candidates. if we are unable to raise funds at the time that we desire or at any time thereafter on acceptable terms, we may not be able to continue to develop our drug candidates. the sale of equity or additional convertible debt securities in the future may be dilutive to our stockholders and may provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our holders of common stock, and debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that could restrict our operations or our ability to incur further indebtedness. 45 table of contents our marketable securities and long term investments are subject to risks that could adversely affect our overall financial position. we invest our cash in accordance with an established internal policy and customarily in instruments, corporate bonds and money market funds which historically have been highly liquid and carried relatively low risk. in recent periods, similar types of investments and money market funds have experienced losses in value or liquidity issues that differ from their historical pattern. should a portion of our cash or marketable securities lose value or have their liquidity impaired, it could adversely affect our overall financial position by imperiling our ability to fund our operations and forcing us to seek additional financing sooner than we would otherwise. such financing, if available, may not be available on commercially attractive terms. as discussed under other risks relating to our business we may acquire businesses or assets, form joint ventures or make investments in other companies that may be unsuccessful, divert our management attention and harm our operating results and prospects, any investments that we may make in companies with which we have strategic alliances, such as agenus and merus, could result in our recognition of losses on those investments. in addition, to the extent we may seek to sell or otherwise monetize those investments, we may not be able to do so at our desired price or valuation levels, or at all, due to the limited liquidity of some or all of those investments. any loss in value of our long term investments could adversely affect our financial position on the consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of operations. our current revenues are derived from jakafi and iclusig product sales, jakavi and olumiant product royalties, collaborations and from licensing our intellectual property. if we are unable to achieve milestones, develop products or renew or enter into new collaborations, our revenues may decrease, and future milestone and royalty payments may not contribute significantly to revenues for several years, and may never result in revenues. we derived substantially all of our revenues for the year ended december 31, 2018 from jakafi and iclusig product revenues, jakavi and olumiant product royalties and our collaborations and licensing our intellectual property to others. future revenues from research and development collaborations depend upon continuation of the collaborations, the achievement of milestones and royalties we earn from any future products developed from our research. if we are unable to successfully achieve milestones or our collaborators fail to develop successful products, we will not earn the future revenues contemplated under our collaborative agreements. for example, delays in or other limitations with respect to the approval of baricitinib in the united states for the treatment of moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis, or the failure to obtain such approval, as discussed under we depend on our collaborators and licensees for the future development and commercialization of some of our drug candidates. conflicts may arise between our collaborators and licensees and us, or our collaborators and licensees may choose to terminate their agreements with us, which may adversely affect our business. would affect potential future royalty and milestone revenue. in addition, our revenues are subject to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations due to the global nature of our operations. to the extent that our non-u.s. source revenues represent a more significant portion of our total revenues, these fluctuations could materially affect our operating results. risks relating to intellectual property and legal matters if we are subject to arbitration, litigation and infringement claims, they could be costly and disrupt our drug discovery and development efforts. the technology that we use to make and develop our drug products, the technology that we incorporate in our products, and the products we are developing may be subject to claims that they infringe the patents or proprietary rights of others. the success of our drug discovery and development efforts will also depend on our ability to develop new compounds, drugs and technologies without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. we are aware of patents and patent applications filed in certain countries claiming intellectual property relating to some of our drug discovery targets and drug candidates. while the validity of issued patents, patentability of pending patent applications 46 table of contents and applicability of any of them to our programs are uncertain, if any of these patents are asserted against us or if we choose to license any of these patents, our ability to commercialize our products could be harmed or the potential return to us from any product that may be successfully commercialized could be diminished. from time to time we have received, and we may in the future receive, notices from third parties offering licenses to technology or alleging patent, trademark, or copyright infringement, claims regarding trade secrets or other contract claims. receipt of these notices could result in significant costs as a result of the diversion of the attention of management from our drug discovery and development efforts. parties sending these notices may have brought and in the future may bring litigation against us or seek arbitration relating to contract claims. we may be involved in future lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights or contract violations. in addition, litigation or other legal proceedings may be necessary to: assert claims of infringement; enforce our patents or trademarks; protect our trade secrets or know how; or determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. we may be unsuccessful in defending or pursuing these lawsuits, claims or other legal proceedings. regardless of the outcome, litigation or other legal proceedings can be very costly and can divert management efforts. an adverse determination may subject us to significant liabilities or require us or our collaborators or licensees to seek licenses to other parties patents or proprietary rights. we or our collaborators or licensees may also be restricted or prevented from manufacturing or selling a drug or other product that we or they develop. further, we or our future collaborators or licensees may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. if we are unable to develop non infringing technology or license technology on a timely basis or on reasonable terms, our business could be harmed. we may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our proprietary information, which may result in its unauthorized use, a loss of revenue under a collaboration agreement or loss of sales to generic versions of our products or otherwise reduce our ability to compete in developing and commercializing products. our business and competitive position depends in significant part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology, including any drug products that we create. despite our efforts to protect this information, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. for example, one of our collaborators may disclose proprietary information pertaining to our drug discovery efforts. in addition, while we have filed numerous patent applications with respect to ruxolitinib and our drug candidates in the united states and in foreign countries, our patent applications may fail to result in issued patents. in addition, because patent applications can take several years to issue as patents, there may be pending patent applications of others that may later issue as patents that cover some aspect of ruxolitinib and our drug candidates. our existing patents and any future patents we may obtain may not be broad enough to protect our products or all of the potential uses of our products, or otherwise prevent others from developing competing products or technologies. in addition, our patents may be challenged and invalidated or may fail to provide us with any competitive advantages if, for example, others were first to invent or first to file a patent application for the technologies and products covered by our patents. as noted above under risks relating to commercialization of our products competition for our products could potentially harm our business and result in a decrease in our revenue, a potential generic drug company competitor has challenged certain patents relating to jakafi. additionally, when we do not control the prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of certain important intellectual property, such as a drug candidate in licensed to us or subject to a collaboration with a third-party, the protection of the intellectual property rights may not be in our hands. if we do not control the intellectual property rights in licensed to us with respect to a drug candidate and the entity that controls the intellectual property rights does not adequately protect those rights, our rights may be impaired, which may impact our ability to develop, market and commercialize the in licensed drug candidate. 47 table of contents our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate, and our competitors may: independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, products and techniques; otherwise gain access to our proprietary information; or design around patents issued to us or our other intellectual property. we pursue a policy of having our employees, consultants and advisors execute proprietary information and invention agreements when they begin working for us. however, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. if we fail to maintain trade secret and patent protection, our potential future revenues may be decreased. if the effective term of our patents is decreased due to changes in the united states patent laws or if we need to refile some of our patent applications, the value of our patent portfolio and the revenues we derive from it may be decreased. the value of our patents depends, in part, on their duration. a shorter period of patent protection could lessen the value of our rights under any patents that we obtain and may decrease the revenues we derive from our patents. the united states patent laws were amended in 1995 to change the term of patent protection from 17 years from patent issuance to 20 years from the earliest effective filing date of the application. because the time from filing to issuance of biotechnology applications may be more than three years depending on the subject matter, a 20 year patent term from the filing date may result in substantially shorter patent protection. additionally, united states patent laws were amended in 2011 with the enactment of the america invents act and third parties are now able to challenge the validity of issued u.s. patents through various review proceedings; thus rendering the validity of u.s. patents more uncertain. we may be obligated to participate in review proceedings to determine the validity of our u.s. patents. we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these proceedings, the conduct of which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts and resources. if we are unsuccessful in these proceedings some or all of our claims in the patents may be narrowed or invalidated and the patent protection for our products and drug candidates in the united states could be substantially shortened. further, if all of the patents covering one of our products are invalidated, the fda could approve requests to manufacture a generic version of that product prior to the expiration date of those patents. other changes in the united states patent laws or changes in the interpretation of patent laws could diminish the value of our patents or narrow the scope of our patent protection. for example, the supreme court of the united states recently ruled that isolated dna sequences cannot be patented. although we no longer receive significant revenues generated from our former information products business, the majority of our gene patent portfolio from that business consists of patents on isolated dna sequences, and this ruling limits our ability to derive additional revenues from our gene patent portfolio. additionally, the supreme court resolved a split among the circuit courts of appeals regarding antitrust challenges to settlements of patent infringement lawsuits under the hatch waxman act between brand name drug companies and generic drug companies. the court rejected the scope of the patent test and ruled that settlements involving reverse payments from brand name drug companies to generic drug companies should be analyzed under the rule of reason. this ruling may create uncertainty and make it more difficult to settle patent litigation if a company seeking to manufacture a generic version of one of our products challenges the patents covering that product prior to the expiration date of those patents. international patent protection is particularly uncertain and costly, and our involvement in opposition proceedings in foreign countries may result in the expenditure of substantial sums and management resources. biotechnology and pharmaceutical patent law outside the united states is even more uncertain and costly than in the united states and is currently undergoing review and revision in many countries. further, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as united states laws. for example, certain countries do not grant patent claims that are directed to the treatment of humans. we have participated, and may in the future participate, in opposition proceedings to determine the validity of our foreign patents or our competitors foreign 48 table of contents patents, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts. for example, there is a patent opposition proceeding in india against our indian patent that covers the composition of matter and use of certain janus kinase inhibitors, including ruxolitinib phosphate, for the treatment of myeloid proliferative disorders, cancer, immune related diseases, skin disorders, and other diseases. successful challenges to our patent or other intellectual property rights through these proceedings could result in a loss of rights in the relevant jurisdiction and allow third parties to use our proprietary technologies without a license from us or our collaborators, which may also result in loss of future royalty payments. in addition, successful challenges may jeopardize or delay our ability to enter into new collaborations or commercialize potential products, which could harm our business and results of operations. risks relating to information technology and data privacy significant disruptions of information technology systems, breaches of data security, or unauthorized disclosures of sensitive data or personally identifiable information or individually identifiable health information could adversely affect our business, and could subject us to liability or reputational damage. our business is increasingly dependent on critical, complex, and interdependent information technology (it) systems, including internet-based systems, some of which are managed or hosted by third parties, to support business processes as well as internal and external communications. the size and complexity of our it systems make us potentially vulnerable to it system breakdowns, malicious intrusion, and computer viruses, which may result in the impairment of our ability to operate our business effectively. we are continuously evaluating and, where appropriate, enhancing our it systems to address our planned growth, including to support our planned manufacturing operations. there are inherent costs and risks associated with implementing the enhancements to our it systems, including potential delays in access to, or errors in, critical business and financial information, substantial capital expenditures, additional administrative time and operating expenses, retention of sufficiently skilled personnel to implement and operate the enhanced systems, demands on management time, and costs of delays or difficulties in transitioning to the enhanced systems, any of which could harm our business and results of operations. in addition, the implementation of enhancements to our it systems may not result in productivity improvements at a level that outweighs the costs of implementation, or at all. in addition, our systems and the systems of our third-party providers and collaborators are potentially vulnerable to data security breaches which may expose sensitive data to unauthorized persons or to the public. such data security breaches could lead to the loss of confidential information, trade secrets or other intellectual property, could lead to the public exposure of personal information (including personally identifiable information or individually identifiable health information) of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, business partners, and others, could lead to potential identity theft, or could lead to reputational harm. data security breaches could also result in loss of clinical trial data or damage to the integrity of that data. in addition, the increased use of social media by our employees and contractors could result in inadvertent disclosure of sensitive data or personal information, including but not limited to, confidential information, trade secrets and other intellectual property. any such disruption or security breach, as well as any action by us or our employees or contractors that might be inconsistent with the rapidly evolving data privacy and security laws and regulations applicable within the united states and elsewhere where we conduct business, could result in enforcement actions by u.s. states, the u.s. federal government or foreign governments, liability or sanctions under data privacy laws that protect personally identifiable information, regulatory penalties, other legal proceedings such as but not limited to private litigation, the incurrence of significant remediation costs, disruptions to our development programs, business operations and collaborations, diversion of management efforts and damage to our reputation, which could harm our business and operations. because of the rapidly moving nature of technology and the increasing sophistication of cybersecurity threats, our measures to prevent, respond to and minimize such risks may be unsuccessful. in addition, the european parliament and the council of the european union adopted a comprehensive general data privacy regulation, known as the gdpr, which took effect in may 2018 and governs the collection and use of personal data in the european union. the gdpr, which is wide-ranging in scope, imposes several requirements relating to the consent of the individuals to whom the personal data relates, the information provided to the individuals, the security and confidentiality of the personal data, data breach notification and the use of third party processors in connection with the processing of the personal data. the gdpr also imposes strict rules on the transfer of personal data out of the european 49 table of contents union to the united states, provides an enforcement authority and imposes large penalties for noncompliance, including the potential for fines of up to 20 million or 4% of the annual global revenues of the infringer, whichever is greater. increasing use of social media could give rise to liability, breaches of data security, or reputational damage. we and our employees are increasingly utilizing social media tools as a means of communication both internally and externally. despite our efforts to monitor evolving social media communication guidelines and comply with applicable rules, there is risk that the use of social media by us or our employees to communicate about our products or business may cause us to be found in violation of applicable requirements. in addition, our employees may knowingly or inadvertently make use of social media in ways that may not comply with our social media policy or other legal or contractual requirements, which may give rise to liability, lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or result in public exposure of personal information of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. furthermore, negative posts or comments about us or our products in social media could seriously damage our reputation, brand image, and goodwill. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 72 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market ris k our investments in marketable securities, which are composed primarily of corporate debt securities and u.s. government securities, are subject to default, changes in credit rating and changes in market value. these investments are also subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. as of december 31, 2018, marketable securities were $274.3 million. due to the nature of these investments, if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as of december 31, 2018, the decline in fair value would not be material. 72 table of contentsrisk factors 30 risk factors risks relating to commercialization of our products we depend heavily on our lead product, jakafi (ruxolitinib), which is marketed as jakavi outside the united states. if we are unable to successfully commercialize jakafi in its approved indications or to successfully obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize ruxolitinib for the treatment of additional indications, or if we are significantly delayed or limited in doing so, our business may be materially harmed. jakafi is our first and, currently, only product marketed by us that is approved for sale in the united states. it was approved by the u.s. food and drug administration, or fda, in november 2011 for the treatment of patients with intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis, in december 2014 for the treatment of patients with polycythemia vera who have had an inadequate response to or are intolerant of hydroxyurea, which we refer to as uncontrolled polycythemia vera, and in may 2019 for the treatment of steroid-refractory acute graft-versus-host disease in adult and pediatric patients 12 years and older. although we have received regulatory approval for these indications, such approval does not guarantee future revenues. while in june 2016 we acquired exclusive rights to develop and commercialize iclusig in the european union, or eu, and other countries and in june 2018 the fda approved for sale olumiant (baricitinib), which we exclusively licensed to eli lilly and company, for the treatment of specified rheumatoid arthritis indications, we anticipate that jakafi product sales will continue to contribute a significant percentage of our total revenues over the next several years. the commercial success of jakafi and our ability to generate and maintain revenues from the sale of jakafi will depend on a number of factors, including: the number of patients with intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis, uncontrolled polycythemia vera or steroid-refractory acute graft-versus-host disease who are diagnosed with the diseases and the number of such patients that may be treated with jakafi; the acceptance of jakafi by patients and the healthcare community; whether physicians, patients and healthcare payors view jakafi as therapeutically effective and safe relative to cost and any alternative therapies; the ability to obtain and maintain sufficient coverage or reimbursement by third-party payors and pricing; the ability of our third-party manufacturers to manufacture jakafi in sufficient quantities that meet all applicable quality standards; the ability of our company and our third-party providers to provide marketing and distribution support for jakafi; the label and promotional claims allowed by the fda; 30 table of contents the maintenance of regulatory approval for the approved indications in the united states; and our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize ruxolitinib in the united states for additional indications. if we are not able to maintain revenues from jakafi in the united states, or our revenues from jakafi decrease, our business may be materially harmed and we may need to delay other drug discovery, development and commercialization initiatives or even significantly curtail operations, and our ability to license or acquire new products to diversify our revenue base could be limited. in addition, our receipt of royalties under our collaboration agreements with novartis for sales of jakavi outside the united states and with lilly for worldwide sales of olumiant will depend on factors similar to those listed above, with similar regulatory, pricing and reimbursement issues driven by applicable regulatory authorities and governmental and third-party payors affecting jurisdictions outside the united states. if we are unable to obtain, or maintain at anticipated levels, reimbursement for our products from government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, our pricing may be affected or our product sales, results of operations or financial condition could be harmed. we may not be able to sell our products on a profitable basis or our profitability may be reduced if we are required to sell our products at lower than anticipated prices or reimbursement is unavailable or limited in scope or amount. the costs of jakafi and iclusig are not insignificant and almost all patients will require some form of third-party coverage to afford their cost. our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected if we cannot depend on government and other third-party payors to defray the cost of our products to the patient. reimbursement systems in international markets vary significantly by country and by region, and reimbursement approvals must be obtained on a country-by-country basis. reimbursement in the eu must be negotiated on a country-by-country basis and in many countries the product cannot be commercially launched until reimbursement is approved. the timing to complete the negotiation process in each country is highly uncertain, and in some countries, we expect that it may exceed 12 months. risks related to pricing and reimbursement are described below under other risks relating to our business health care reform measures could impact the pricing and profitability of pharmaceuticals, and adversely affect the commercial viability of our or our collaborators' products and drug candidates. our ability to generate revenues will be diminished if we or our collaborators are unable to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement from private insurers, government insurance programs or other third party payors of health care costs, which could be affected by current and potential healthcare reform legislation, and diminished revenues will harm our operating results and financial condition and could adversely affect our ability to conduct our research and development operations. if government and other third-party payors refuse to provide coverage and reimbursement with respect to our products, determine to provide a lower level of coverage and reimbursement than anticipated, or reduce previously approved levels of coverage and reimbursement, then our pricing or reimbursement for our products may be affected and our product sales, results of operations or financial condition could be harmed. we depend upon a limited number of specialty pharmacies and wholesalers for a significant portion of any revenues from jakafi, and the loss of, or significant reduction in sales to, any one of these specialty pharmacies or wholesalers could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. we sell jakafi primarily to specialty pharmacies and wholesalers. specialty pharmacies dispense jakafi to patients in fulfillment of prescriptions and wholesalers sell jakafi to hospitals and physician offices. we do not promote jakafi to specialty pharmacies or wholesalers, and they do not set or determine demand for jakafi. our ability to successfully commercialize jakafi will depend, in part, on the extent to which we are able to provide adequate distribution of jakafi to patients. although we have contracted with a number of specialty pharmacies and wholesalers, they are expected generally to carry a very limited inventory and may be reluctant to be part of our distribution network in the future if demand for the product does not increase. further, it is possible that these specialty pharmacies and wholesalers could decide to change their policies or fees, or both, at some time in the future. this could result in their refusal to carry smaller volume products such as jakafi, or lower margins or the need to find alternative methods of distributing our product. although we believe we can find alternative channels to distribute jakafi on relatively short notice, our revenue 31 table of contents during that period of time may suffer and we may incur additional costs to replace any such specialty pharmacy or wholesaler. the loss of any large specialty pharmacy or wholesaler as part of our distribution network, a significant reduction in sales we make to specialty pharmacies or wholesalers, or any failure to pay for the products we have shipped to them could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. if we are unable to establish and maintain effective sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, or to enter into agreements with third parties to do so, we will not be able to successfully commercialize our products. under our collaboration and license agreement with novartis, we have retained commercialization rights to jakafi in the united states. we have established commercial capabilities in the united states, but cannot guarantee that we will be able to enter into and maintain any marketing, distribution or third-party logistics agreements with third-party providers on acceptable terms, if at all. in connection with our june 2016 acquisition from ariad pharmaceuticals, inc. we licensed rights to develop and commercialize iclusig in certain countries and we acquired the european sales, marketing and distribution operations of ariad. we may not be able to maintain those operations or retain their personnel or distribution arrangements. we may not be able to correctly judge the size and experience of the sales and marketing force and the scale of distribution capabilities necessary to successfully market and sell any new products. establishing and maintaining sales, marketing and distribution capabilities are expensive and time-consuming. competition for personnel with experience in sales and marketing can be high. our expenses associated with building and maintaining the sales force and distribution capabilities may be disproportional compared to the revenues we may be able to generate on sales of our products. to the extent that we are able to obtain marketing approval for ruxolitinib cream for dermatology indications such as atopic dermatitis and vitiligo, we will have to establish and maintain sales, marketing and distribution capabilities that will generally be separate from our existing capabilities for oncology indications, and we have no prior experience in commercializing products for dermatology indications. successful commercialization of our drug candidates for dermatology indications, if approved, will require us to establish new physician and payor relationships, reimbursement strategies and governmental interactions. our inability to commercialize successfully products in indications outside of oncology could harm our business and operating results. if we fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could lose our approval to market our products or be subject to other governmental enforcement activity. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain regulatory approval to market our products in the jurisdictions in which they are currently marketed. if we do not maintain our regulatory approval to market our products, in particular jakafi, our results of operations will be materially harmed. we and our collaborators, third-party manufacturers and suppliers are subject to rigorous and extensive regulation by the fda and other federal and state agencies as well as foreign governmental agencies. these regulations continue to apply after product marketing approval, and cover, among other things, testing, manufacturing, quality control and assurance, labeling, advertising, promotion, risk mitigation, and adverse event reporting requirements. the commercialization of our products is subject to post-regulatory approval product surveillance, and our products may have to be withdrawn from the market or subject to restrictions if previously unknown problems occur. regulatory agencies may also require additional clinical trials or testing for our products, and our products may be recalled or may be subject to reformulation, additional studies, changes in labeling, warnings to the public and negative publicity. for example, from late 2013 through 2014, iclusig was subject to review by the european medicines agency, or ema, of the benefits and risks of iclusig to better understand the nature, frequency and severity of events obstructing the arteries or veins, the potential mechanism that leads to these side effects and whether there needed to be a revision in the dosing recommendation, patient monitoring and a risk management plan for iclusig. this review was completed in january 2015, with additional warnings in the product information but without any change in the approved indications. the ema could take additional actions in the future that reduce the commercial potential of iclusig. failure to comply with the laws and regulations administered by the fda or other agencies could result in: administrative and judicial sanctions, including warning letters; 32 table of contents fines and other civil penalties; suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approval to market or manufacture our products; interruption of production; operating restrictions; product recall or seizure; injunctions; and criminal prosecution. the occurrence of any such event may have a material adverse effect on our business. if the use of our products harms patients, or is perceived to harm patients even when such harm is unrelated to our products, our regulatory approvals could be revoked or otherwise negatively impacted or we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. the testing of jakafi and iclusig, the manufacturing, marketing and sale of jakafi and the marketing and sale of iclusig expose us to product liability and other risks. side effects and other problems experienced by patients from the use of our products could: lessen the frequency with which physicians decide to prescribe our products; encourage physicians to stop prescribing our products to their patients who previously had been prescribed our products; cause serious harm to patients that may give rise to product liability claims against us; and result in our need to withdraw or recall our products from the marketplace. if our products are used by a wide patient population, new risks and side effects may be discovered, the rate of known risks or side effects may increase, and risks previously viewed as less significant could be determined to be significant. previously unknown risks and adverse effects of our products may also be discovered in connection with unapproved, or off-label, uses of our products. we are prohibited by law from promoting or in any way supporting or encouraging the promotion of our products for off-label uses, but physicians are permitted to use products for off-label purposes. in addition, we are studying and expect to continue to study jakafi in diseases for potential additional indications in controlled clinical settings, and independent investigators are doing so as well. in the event of any new risks or adverse effects discovered as new patients are treated for intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis, uncontrolled polycythemia vera or acute graft-versus-host disease and as jakafi is studied in or used by patients for off-label indications, regulatory authorities may delay or revoke their approvals, we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials, make changes in labeling of jakafi, reformulate jakafi or make changes and obtain new approvals. we may also experience a significant drop in the sales of jakafi, experience harm to our reputation and the reputation of jakafi in the marketplace or become subject to lawsuits, including class actions. any of these results could decrease or prevent sales of jakafi or substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing jakafi. similar results could occur with respect to our commercialization of iclusig. patients who have been enrolled in our clinical trials or who may use our products in the future often have severe and advanced stages of disease and known as well as unknown significant pre-existing and potentially life-threatening 33 table of contents health risks. during the course of treatment, patients may suffer adverse events, including death, for reasons that may or may not be related to our products. such events could subject us to costly litigation, require us to pay substantial amounts of money to injured patients, delay, negatively impact or end our opportunity to receive or maintain regulatory approval to market our products, or require us to suspend or abandon our commercialization efforts. even in a circumstance in which we do not believe that an adverse event is related to our products, the investigation into the circumstance may be time consuming or inconclusive. these investigations may interrupt our sales efforts, impact and limit the type of regulatory approvals our products receive or maintain, or delay the regulatory approval process in other countries. factors similar to those listed above also apply to our collaboration partner novartis, to iclusig for jurisdictions outside the united states and to our collaboration partner lilly for all jurisdictions. if we market our products in a manner that violates various laws and regulations, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. in addition to fda and related regulatory requirements, we are subject to health care fraud and abuse laws, such as the federal false claims act, the anti-kickback provisions of the federal social security act, and other state and federal laws and regulations. federal and state anti-kickback laws prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce, or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any health care item or service reimbursable under medicare, medicaid, or other federally- or state-financed health care programs. federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities. although physicians are permitted, based on their medical judgment, to prescribe products for indications other than those approved by the fda, manufacturers are prohibited from promoting their products for such off-label uses. we market jakafi for intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis, uncontrolled polycythemia vera and acute graft-versus-host disease and provide promotional materials to physicians regarding the use of jakafi for these indications. although we believe that our promotional materials for physicians do not constitute improper promotion of jakafi, the fda or other agencies may disagree. if the fda or another agency determines that our promotional materials or other activities constitute improper promotion of jakafi, it could request that we modify our promotional materials or other activities or subject us to regulatory enforcement actions, including the issuance of a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. it is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they believe that the alleged improper promotion led to the submission and payment of claims for an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. even if it is later determined we are not in violation of these laws, we may be faced with negative publicity, incur significant expenses defending our position and have to divert significant management resources from other matters. the european union and member countries, as well as governmental authorities in other countries, impose similar strict restrictions on the promotion and marketing of drug products. the off-label promotion of medicinal products is prohibited in the eu and in other territories, and the eu also maintains strict controls on advertising and promotional materials. the promotion of medicinal products that are not subject to a marketing authorization is also prohibited in the eu. violations of the rules governing the promotion of medicinal products in the eu and in other territories could be penalized by administrative measures, fines and imprisonment. the majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. numerous states and localities have enacted or are considering enacting legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. additionally, as part of the patient protection and affordable care act, the federal government has enacted the physician payment sunshine provisions. the sunshine provisions and similar laws and regulations in other jurisdictions where we do business require manufacturers to publicly report certain payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals. many of these requirements are new and uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements are unclear. nonetheless, if we are 34 table of contents found not to be in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement action and fines and other penalties, which could be significant in amount or result in exclusion from federal healthcare programs such as medicare and medicaid. any action initiated against us for violation of these laws, even if we successfully defend against it, could require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which could harm our business and operating results. see also other risks relating to our business if we fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory requirements affecting the health care industry, we could face increased costs, penalties and a loss of business below. competition for our products could harm our business and result in a decrease in our revenue. present and potential competitors for jakafi could include major pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, as well as specialty pharmaceutical firms. for example, in august 2019, celgene corporation, now a subsidiary of bristol-myers squibb company, announced that the fda had approved inrebic (fedratinib) for the treatment of myelofibrosis. see other risks relating to our business we face significant competition for our drug discovery and development efforts, and if we do not compete effectively, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated for a description of risks relating to this type of competition. in addition, jakafi could face competition from generic products. as a result of the drug price competition and patent term restoration act of 1984, commonly known as the hatch-waxman act, in the united states, generic manufacturers may seek approval of a generic version of an innovative pharmaceutical by filing with the fda an abbreviated new drug application, or anda. the hatch-waxman act provides significant incentives to generic manufacturers to challenge u.s. patents on successful innovative pharmaceutical products. in february 2016, we received a notice letter regarding an anda that requested approval to market a generic version of jakafi and purported to challenge patents covering ruxolitinib phosphate and its use that expire in 2028. the notice letter does not challenge the ruxolitinib composition of matter patent, which expires in december 2027. to date, to our knowledge, the fda has taken no action with respect to this anda. separately, in january 2018 the patent trial and appeal board (ptab) of united states patent and trademark office denied a petition challenging our patent covering deuterated ruxolitinib analogs and the ptab subsequently denied concert's request for rehearing in may 2018. nevertheless, concert still has the right separately to challenge the validity of the patent in federal court. there can be no assurance that our patents will be upheld or that any litigation in which we might engage with any such generic manufacturer would be successful in protecting jakafi's exclusivity. the entry of a generic version of jakafi could result in a decrease in jakafi sales and materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. iclusig currently competes with existing therapies that are approved for the treatment of patients with chronic myeloid leukemia, or cml, who are resistant or intolerant to prior tyrosine kinase inhibitor, or tki, therapies, on the basis of, among other things, efficacy, cost, breadth of approved use and the safety and side-effect profile. in addition, generic versions of imatinib are available and, while we currently believe that generic versions of imatinib will not materially impact our commercialization of iclusig, given iclusig's various indication statements globally that are currently focused on resistant or intolerant cml, we cannot be certain how physicians, payors, patients, regulatory authorities and other market participants will respond to the availability of generic versions of imatinib. other risks relating to our business we may be unsuccessful in our efforts to discover and develop drug candidates and commercialize drug products. our long-term success, revenue growth and diversification of revenues depends on our ability to obtain regulatory approval for new drug products and new indications for our existing drug products. our ability to discover and develop drug candidates and to commercialize additional drug products and indications will depend on our ability to: hire and retain key employees; identify high quality therapeutic targets; identify potential drug candidates; develop products internally or license drug candidates from others; 35 table of contents identify and enroll suitable human subjects, either in the united states or abroad, for our clinical trials; complete laboratory testing; commence, conduct and complete safe and effective clinical trials on humans; obtain and maintain necessary intellectual property rights to our products; obtain and maintain necessary regulatory approvals for our products, both in the united states and abroad; enter into arrangements with third parties to provide services or to manufacture our products on our behalf; deploy sales, marketing, distribution and manufacturing resources effectively or enter into arrangements with third parties to provide these functions in compliance with all applicable laws; obtain appropriate coverage and reimbursement levels for the cost of our products from governmental authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors; lease facilities at reasonable rates to support our growth; and enter into arrangements with third parties to license and commercialize our products. we may not be successful in discovering, developing, or commercializing additional drug products or our existing drug products in new indications. discovery and development of drug candidates are expensive, uncertain and time-consuming, and we do not know if our efforts will lead to discovery of any drug candidates that can be successfully developed and marketed. of the compounds or biologics that we identify as potential drug products or that we may in-license from other companies, including potential products for which we are conducting clinical trials, only a few, if any, are likely to lead to successful drug development programs and commercialized drug products. we depend heavily on the success of our most advanced drug candidates. we might not be able to commercialize any of our drug candidates successfully, and we may spend significant time and money attempting to do so. we have invested significant resources in the development of our most advanced drug candidates. ruxolitinib is in phase iii clinical trials for the treatment of patients with steroid-refractory graft-versus-host disease and is in other clinical trials. itacitinib is in phase iii clinical trials for the treatment of patients with chronic graft-versus-host disease and pemigatinib is in a phase iii clinical trial for the treatment of patients with cholangiocarcinoma. further, we have a number of drug candidates in phase i and phase ii clinical trials. our ability to generate product revenues will depend on the successful development and eventual commercialization of our most advanced drug candidates. we, or our collaborators or licensees, may decide to discontinue development of any or all of our drug candidates at any time for commercial, scientific or other reasons. for example: in early 2016, we decided to discontinue the clinical trials of ruxolitinib in pancreatic cancer and solid tumors and itacitinib in pancreatic cancer; and, in april 2018, we along with merck stopped the echo-301 study with epacadostat, and we also significantly downsized the epacadostat development program. in addition, in january 2020 we announced that itacitinib did not meet the primary endpoint in the phase iii clinical trial for the treatment of patients with acute graft-versus-host disease. if a product is developed but not approved or marketed, we may have spent significant amounts of time and money on it, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition as well as our business plans. if we or our collaborators are unable to obtain regulatory approval for our drug candidates in the united states and foreign jurisdictions, we or our collaborators will not be permitted to commercialize products resulting from our research. in order to commercialize drug products in the united states, drug candidates will have to obtain regulatory approval from the fda. satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years. to obtain regulatory approval, 36 table of contents we or our collaborators, as the case may be, must first show that our drug candidates are safe and effective for target indications through preclinical testing (animal testing) and clinical trials (human testing). preclinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes, and we do not know whether the fda will allow us or our collaborators to undertake clinical trials of any drug candidates in addition to our compounds currently in clinical trials. if regulatory approval of a product is granted, this approval will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which the product is demonstrated through clinical trials to be safe and effective. completion of clinical trials may take several years and failure may occur at any stage of testing. the length of time required varies substantially according to the type, complexity, novelty and intended use of the drug candidate. interim results of a preclinical test or clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results, and acceptable results in early clinical trials may not be repeated in later clinical trials. for example, a drug candidate that is successful at the preclinical level may cause harmful or dangerous side effects when tested at the clinical level. our rate of commencement and completion of clinical trials may be delayed, and existing clinical trials with our drug candidates may be stopped, due to many potential factors, including: the high degree of risk and uncertainty associated with drug development; our inability to formulate or manufacture sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials; variability in the number and types of patients available for each study; difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, resulting in incomplete data; unforeseen safety issues or side effects; poor or unanticipated effectiveness of drug candidates during the clinical trials; or government or regulatory delays. data obtained from clinical trials are susceptible to varying interpretation, which may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. many companies in the pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical industry, including our company, have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after achieving promising results in earlier clinical trials. in addition, regulatory authorities may refuse or delay approval as a result of other factors, such as changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development and regulatory agency review. for example, the fda has in the past required, and could in the future require, that we or our collaborators conduct additional trials of any of our drug candidates, which would result in delays. in april 2017, we and our collaborator lilly announced that the fda had issued a complete response letter for the new drug application, or nda, of olumiant as a once-daily oral medication for the treatment of moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis. the letter indicated that additional clinical data were needed to determine the most appropriate doses and to further characterize safety concerns across treatment arms. in june 2018, after a resubmission of the nda, the fda approved the 2mg dose of olumiant for the treatment of adults with moderately-to-severely active rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate response to one or more tumor necrosis factor inhibitor therapies. the fda did not at that time approve any higher dose of olumiant and required a warning label in connection with its approval. compounds or biologics developed by us or with or by our collaborators and licensees may not prove to be safe and effective in clinical trials and may not meet all of the applicable regulatory requirements needed to receive marketing approval. for example, in january 2016, a phase ii trial that was evaluating ruxolitinib in combination with regorafenib in patients with relapsed or refractory metastatic colorectal cancer and high c-reactive protein was stopped early after a planned analysis of interim efficacy data determined that the likelihood of the trial meeting its efficacy endpoint was insufficient. in addition, in february 2016, we made a decision to discontinue our janus 1 study, our janus 2 study, our other studies of ruxolitinib in colorectal, breast and lung cancer, and our study of incb39110 in pancreatic cancer after a planned analysis of interim efficacy data of janus 1 demonstrated that ruxolitinib plus capecitabine did not show a sufficient level of efficacy to warrant continuation. also, in april 2018, we along with merck announced that the echo- 37 table of contents 301 study had been stopped and we also significantly downsized the epacadostat development program and in january 2020 we stopped our phase iii trial of itacitinib for the treatment of acute graft-versus-host-disease. if clinical trials of any of our compounds or biologics are stopped for safety, efficacy or other reasons or fail to meet their respective endpoints, our overall development plans, business, prospects, expected operating results and financial condition could be materially harmed and the value of our company could be negatively affected. outside the united states, our and our collaborators' ability to market a product is contingent upon receiving a marketing authorization from the appropriate regulatory authorities. this foreign regulatory approval process typically includes all of the risks associated with the fda approval process described above and may also include additional risks. the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country and may require us to perform additional testing and expend additional resources. approval by the fda does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or by the fda. health care reform measures could impact the pricing and profitability of pharmaceuticals, and adversely affect the commercial viability of our or our collaborators' products and drug candidates. our ability to generate revenues will be diminished if we or our collaborators are unable to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement from private insurers, government insurance programs or other third-party payors of health care costs, which could be affected by current and potential healthcare reform legislation, and diminished revenues will harm our operating results and financial condition and could adversely affect our ability to conduct our research and development operations. our ability to commercialize our current and any future approved products successfully will depend in part on the prices we are able to charge for our approved products and the extent to which adequate reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatment are obtained from third-party payors, such as private insurers, government insurance programs, including medicare and medicaid, health maintenance organizations (hmos) and other health care related organizations in the u.s. and abroad. in recent years, through legislative and regulatory actions, the u.s. federal government has made substantial changes to various payment systems under the medicare and other federal health care programs. comprehensive reforms to the u.s. healthcare system were enacted, including changes to the methods for, and amounts of, medicare reimbursement. while there is currently significant uncertainty regarding the implementation of some of these reforms or the scope of amended or additional reforms, the implementation of reforms could significantly reduce payments from medicare and medicaid. reforms or other changes to these payment systems may change the availability, methods and rates of reimbursements from medicare, private insurers and other third-party payors for our current and any future approved products. some of these changes and proposed changes could result in reduced reimbursement rates or in eliminating dual sources of payment, which could reduce the price that we or any of our collaborators or licensees receive for any products in the future, and which would adversely affect our business strategy, operations and financial results. in addition, there has been an increasing legislative and enforcement interest in the united states with respect to drug pricing practices. this has resulted in several recent federal and state proposals to regulate prices of pharmaceutical products and other health care reforms, any of which could limit the prices that we can charge for our products and may further limit the commercial viability of our products and drug candidates. specifically, there have been several federal congressional inquiries and proposed and enacted federal and state legislation designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to drug pricing, reduce the cost of prescription drugs under medicare, reform government program reimbursement methodologies for prescription drugs, allow importation of drugs into the u.s. from other countries and limit allowable prices for drugs to a function of an average international reference price that may be substantially lower than what we currently or would otherwise charge. in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. we expect that the health care reform measures that have been adopted in the united states and in foreign markets, and further reforms that may be adopted in the future, could result in more rigorous coverage criteria and additional downward pressure on the prices that we may receive for our approved products. if reimbursement for our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our business could be materially harmed, including by our revenue potentially being materially adversely affected and our research and development efforts potentially being materially curtailed or, in some cases, ceasing. there may be future changes that result in reductions in current prices, coverage and reimbursement levels for our current or any future 38 table of contents approved products, and we cannot predict the scope of any future changes or the impact that those changes would have on our operations. if third parties institute high co-payment amounts or other benefit limits for our products, the demand for our products and, accordingly, our revenues and results of operations, could be adversely affected. our patient assistance programs have provided support for non-profit organizations that provide financial assistance to eligible patients or in some cases have provided our products without charge to patients who have no or limited insurance coverage through these charitable organizations. substantial support in this manner could harm our profitability in the future. further, those organizations' ability to provide assistance to patients is dependent on funding from external sources, and we cannot guarantee that such funding will be provided at adequate levels, or at all. further, if we become the subject of any governmental or other regulatory hearing or investigation with respect to the pricing of our products or other business practices, we could incur significant expenses and could be distracted from the operation of our business and execution of our business strategy. any such hearing or investigation could also result in significant negative publicity and harm to our reputation, reduced market acceptance and demand, which could adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. also, the trend toward managed health care in the united states, the organizations for which could control or significantly influence the purchase of health care services and products, as well as legislative and regulatory proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may all result in lower prices for or rejection of our products. adoption of our products by the medical community may be limited without adequate reimbursement for those products. cost control initiatives may decrease coverage and payment levels for our products and, in turn, the price that we will be able to charge for any product. our products may not be considered cost-effective, and coverage and reimbursement may not be available or sufficient to allow us to sell our products on a profitable basis. we are unable to predict all changes to the coverage or reimbursement methodologies that will be applied by private or government payors to our current and any future approved products. the continuing efforts of legislatures, health agencies and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care, any denial of private or government payor coverage or inadequate reimbursement for our drug candidates could materially and adversely affect our business strategy, operations, future revenues and profitability, and the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers, collaborators and licensees and the availability of capital. the same risks apply to our compounds developed and marketed by our collaborators, and our future potential milestone and royalty revenues could be affected in a similar manner. we depend on our collaborators and licensees for the future development and commercialization of some of our drug candidates. conflicts may arise between our collaborators and licensees and us, or our collaborators and licensees may choose to terminate their agreements with us, which may adversely affect our business. we have licensed to novartis rights to ruxolitinib outside of the united states and worldwide rights to our met inhibitor compounds and licensed to lilly worldwide rights to baricitinib. in addition, we have licensed to innovent and to zai lab certain asian rights to some of our clinical stage compounds. under the terms of our agreements with these collaborators, we have no or limited control over the further clinical development of these drug candidates in the relevant territories and any revenues we may receive if these drug candidates receive regulatory approval and are commercialized in the relevant territories will depend primarily on the development and commercialization efforts of others. while olumiant was approved by the european commission in february 2017 for the treatment of moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis in adult patients and by japan's ministry of health, labor and welfare in july 2017 for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis in patients with inadequate response to standard-of-care therapies, the nda for olumiant for the treatment of moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis was approved in june 2018, and only in the lower dosage tablet and with a warning label. delays in any marketing approval by the fda, european or other regulatory authorities, or any label modifications or restrictions in connection with any such approval, or the existence of other risks relating to approved drug products, including those described under risks relating to commercialization of our products, could delay the receipt of and reduce resulting potential royalty and milestone revenue from baricitinib or any of our other out-licensed drug candidates. 39 table of contents conflicts may arise with our collaborators and licensees if they pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products either on their own or in collaboration with others as a means for developing treatments for the diseases that we have targeted. competing products and product opportunities may lead our collaborators and licensees to withdraw their support for our drug candidates. any failure of our collaborators and licensees to perform their obligations under our agreements with them or otherwise to support our drug candidates could negatively impact the development of our drug candidates, lead to our loss of potential revenues from product sales and milestones and delay our achievement, if any, of profitability. additionally, conflicts may arise if, among other things, there is a dispute about the achievement and payment of a milestone amount or the ownership of intellectual property that is developed during the course of a collaborative relationship. our existing collaborative and license agreements can be terminated by our collaborators and licensees for convenience, among other circumstances. if any of our collaborators or licensees terminates its agreement with us, or terminates its rights with respect to certain indications or drug candidates, we may not be able to find a new collaborator for them, and our business could be adversely affected. should an agreement be terminated before we have realized the benefits of the collaboration or license, our reputation could be harmed, we may not obtain revenues that we anticipated receiving, and our business could be adversely affected. the success of our drug discovery and development efforts may depend on our ability to find suitable collaborators to fully exploit our capabilities. if we are unable to establish collaborations or if these future collaborations are unsuccessful in the development and commercialization of our drug candidates, our research, development and commercialization efforts may be unsuccessful, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. an element of our business strategy is to enter into collaborative or license arrangements with other parties, under which we license our drug candidates to those parties for development and commercialization or under which we study our drug candidates in combination with other parties' compounds or biologics. for example, in addition to our novartis, lilly, innovent and zai lab collaborations, we have entered into clinical study relationships with respect to several of our programs, including epacadostat, and are evaluating strategic relationships with respect to several of our other programs. however, because collaboration and license arrangements are complex to negotiate, we may not be successful in our attempts to establish these arrangements. also, we may not have drug candidates that are desirable to other parties, or we may be unwilling to license a drug candidate to a particular party because such party interested in it is a competitor or for other reasons. the terms of any such arrangements that we establish may not be favorable to us. alternatively, potential collaborators may decide against entering into an agreement with us because of our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position or for scientific, commercial or other reasons. if we are not able to establish collaboration or license arrangements, we may not be able to develop and commercialize a drug product, which could adversely affect our business and our revenues. we will likely not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators or licensees devote to our programs or drug candidates. if our collaborators or licensees prove difficult to work with, are less skilled than we originally expected, do not devote adequate resources to the program, are unable to obtain regulatory approval of our drug candidates, pursue alternative technologies or develop alternative products, or do not agree with our approach to development or manufacturing of the drug candidate, the relationship could be unsuccessful. our collaborations with respect to epacadostat involved the study of our collaborators' drugs used in combination with epacadostat on a number of indications or tumor types, many of which were the same across multiple collaborations. we cannot assure you that potential conflicts will not arise or be alleged among these collaborations. if a business combination involving a collaborator or licensee and a third-party were to occur, the effect could be to terminate or cause delays in development of a drug candidate. if we fail to enter into additional licensing agreements or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our business and operations might be adversely affected. in addition to establishing collaborative or license arrangements under which other parties license our drug candidates for development and commercialization or under which we study our drug candidates in combination with such parties' compounds or biologics, we may explore opportunities to develop our clinical pipeline by in-licensing drug 40 table of contents candidates or therapeutics targets that fit within our focus on oncology, such as our collaborations with agenus inc., calithera biosciences, inc., macrogenics, inc., merus n.v., morphosys ag, and syros pharmaceuticals, inc., or explore additional opportunities to further develop and commercialize existing drug candidates in specific jurisdictions, such as our june 2016 acquisition of the development and commercialization rights to iclusig in certain countries. we may be unable to enter into any additional in-licensing agreements because suitable drug candidates that are within our expertise may not be available to us on terms that are acceptable to us or because competitors with greater resources seek to in-license the same drug candidates. drug candidates that we would like to develop or commercialize may not be available to us because they are controlled by competitors who are unwilling to license the rights to the drug candidate to us. in addition, we may enter into license agreements that are unsuccessful and our business and operations might be adversely affected if we are unable to realize the expected economic benefits of a collaboration or other licensing arrangement, by the termination of a drug candidate and termination and winding down of the related license agreement, or due to other business or regulatory issues, including financial difficulties, that may adversely affect a licensor's ability to continue to perform its obligations under an in-license agreement. for example, we may make or incur contractual obligations to make significant upfront payments in connection with licenses for late-stage drug candidates, such as we recently did in entering into a collaboration agreement with morphosys in january 2020, and if any of those drug candidates do not receive marketing approval as anticipated or we have to fund additional clinical trials before marketing approval can be obtained, we will have expended significant funds that might otherwise be applied for other uses or have to expend funds that were not otherwise budgeted or anticipated in connection with the collaboration, and such developments could have a material adverse effect on our stock price and our ability to pursue other transactions. as discussed above under we depend on our collaborators and licensees for the future development and commercialization of some of our drug candidates. conflicts may arise between our collaborators and licensees and us, or our collaborators and licensees may choose to terminate their agreements with us, which may adversely affect our business, conflicts or other issues may arise with our licensors. those conflicts could result in delays in our plans to develop drug candidates or result in the expenditure of additional funds to resolve those conflicts that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. we may also need to license drug delivery or other technology in order to continue to develop our drug candidates. if we are unable to enter into additional agreements to license drug candidates, drug delivery technology or other technology or if these arrangements are unsuccessful, our research and development efforts could be adversely affected. even if a drug candidate that we develop receives regulatory approval, we may decide not to commercialize it if we determine that commercialization of that product would require more money and time than we are willing to invest. even if any of our drug candidates receives regulatory approval, it could be subject to post-regulatory surveillance, and may have to be withdrawn from the market or subject to restrictions if previously unknown problems occur. regulatory agencies may also require additional clinical trials or testing, and the drug product may be recalled or may be subject to reformulation, additional studies, changes in labeling, warnings to the public and negative publicity. as a result, we may not continue to commercialize a product even though it has obtained regulatory approval. further, we may decide not to continue to commercialize a product if the market does not accept the product because it is too expensive or because third parties such as insurance companies or medicare, have not approved it for substantial reimbursement. in addition, we may decide not to continue to commercialize a product if competitors develop and commercialize similar or superior products or have proprietary rights that preclude us from ultimately marketing our products. any approved drug product that we bring to the market may not gain market acceptance by physicians, patients, healthcare payors and others in the medical community. even if we or our collaborators are successful in gaining regulatory approval of any of our drug candidates in addition to jakafi and olumiant or acquire rights to approved drug products in addition to iclusig, we may not generate significant product revenues if these drug products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance. physicians may not recommend our or our collaborators' drug products until longer-term clinical data or other factors demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our or our collaborators' drug products as compared to other alternative treatments. even if the clinical safety and efficacy of our or our collaborators' drug products is established, physicians may elect not to prescribe these drug products for a variety of reasons, including the reimbursement policies of government and other third-party payors and the effectiveness of our or our collaborators' competitors in marketing their products. market acceptance of our drug products, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, 41 table of contents including the following, and market acceptance of our collaborators' drug products will depend on similar factors: the willingness and ability of patients and the healthcare community to use our drug products; the ability to manufacture our drug products in sufficient quantities that meet all applicable quality standards and to offer our drug products for sale at competitive prices; the perception of patients and the healthcare community, including third-party payors, regarding the safety, efficacy and benefits of our drug products compared to those of competing products or therapies; the label and promotional claims allowed by the fda; the pricing and reimbursement of our drug products relative to existing treatments; and marketing and distribution support for our drug products. we have limited capacity to conduct preclinical testing and clinical trials, and our resulting dependence on other parties could result in delays in and additional costs for our drug development efforts. we have limited internal resources and capacity to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials. as part of our development strategy, we often hire clinical research organizations, or cros, to perform preclinical testing and clinical trials for drug candidates. if the cros that we hire to perform our preclinical testing and clinical trials do not meet deadlines, do not follow proper procedures, or a conflict arises between us and our cros, our preclinical testing and clinical trials may take longer than expected, may cost more, may be delayed or may be terminated. if we were forced to find a replacement entity to perform any of our preclinical testing or clinical trials, we may not be able to find a suitable entity on favorable terms, or at all. even if we were able to find another company to perform a preclinical test or clinical trial, the delay in the test or trial may result in significant additional expenditures. events such as these may result in delays in our obtaining regulatory approval for our drug candidates or our ability to commercialize our products and could result in increased expenditures that would adversely affect our operating results. we face significant competition for our drug discovery and development efforts, and if we do not compete effectively, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated. the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are intensely competitive and subject to rapid and significant technological change. our drug discovery and development efforts may target diseases and conditions that are already subject to existing therapies or that are being developed by our competitors, many of which have substantially greater resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, more experience in completing preclinical testing and clinical trials, and formulation, marketing and manufacturing capabilities. as a result of these resources, our competitors may develop drug products that render our products obsolete or noncompetitive by developing more effective drugs, developing their products more efficiently or pricing their products more competitively. our ability to develop competitive products would be limited if our competitors succeeded in obtaining regulatory approvals for drug candidates more rapidly than we were able to or in obtaining patent protection or other intellectual property rights that limited our drug development efforts. any drug products resulting from our research and development efforts, or from our joint efforts with collaborators or licensees, might not be able to compete successfully with our competitors' existing and future products, or obtain regulatory approval in the united states or elsewhere. the development of products or processes by our competitors with significant advantages over those that we are developing could harm our future revenues and profitability. our reliance on other parties to manufacture our drug products and drug candidates could result in a short supply of the drugs, delays in clinical trials or drug development, increased costs, and withdrawal or denial of a regulatory authority's approval. we do not currently operate manufacturing facilities for clinical or commercial production of jakafi and our other drug candidates or for iclusig. we currently hire third parties to manufacture the raw materials, active 42 table of contents pharmaceutical ingredient, or api, and finished drug product of jakafi, iclusig and our other drug candidates for clinical trials. in addition, we expect to continue to rely on third parties for the manufacture of commercial supplies of raw materials, api and finished drug product for any drugs that we successfully develop. we also hire third parties to package and label the finished product. the fda requires that the raw materials, api and finished product for jakafi and our other drug candidates be manufactured according to its current good manufacturing practices regulations and regulatory authorities in other countries have similar requirements. there are only a limited number of manufacturers that comply with these requirements. failure to comply with current good manufacturing practices and the applicable regulatory requirements of other countries in the manufacture of our drug candidates and products could result in the fda or a foreign regulatory authority halting our clinical trials, withdrawing or denying regulatory approval of our drug product, enforcing product recalls or other enforcement actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of our drug candidates or any drug products we may develop if our designated manufacturers do not have the capacity or capability to manufacture them according to our schedule and specifications. manufacturers of pharmaceutical products often encounter difficulties in production, especially in scaling up initial production. these problems include difficulties with production costs and yields, quality control and assurance and shortages of qualified personnel. to the extent our supply chain involves parties in china or materials originating in areas of china that are or could be affected by disease outbreaks such as the recent spread of coronavirus in early 2020, we could see disruptions to our supply chain. in addition, we may not be able to arrange for our drug candidates or any drug products that we may develop to be manufactured by one of these parties on reasonable terms, if at all. we generally have a single source or a limited number of suppliers that are qualified to supply each of the api and finished product of jakafi, iclusig and our other drug candidates and, in the case of jakafi, we only have a single source for its raw materials. if any of these suppliers were to become unable or unwilling to supply us with raw materials, api or finished product that complies with applicable regulatory requirements, we could incur significant delays in our clinical trials or interruption of commercial supply that could have a material adverse effect on our business. if we have promised delivery of a drug candidate or drug product and are unable to meet the delivery requirement due to manufacturing difficulties, our development programs could be delayed, we may have to expend additional sums in order to ensure that manufacturing capacity is available when we need it even if we do not use all of the manufacturing capacity, and our business and operating results could be harmed. we may not be able to adequately manage and oversee the manufacturers we choose, they may not perform as agreed or they may terminate their agreements with us. foreign manufacturing approval processes typically include all of the risks associated with the fda approval process for manufacturing and may also include additional risks. a number of our collaborations involve the manufacture of antibodies. either we or our collaborators have primary responsibility for manufacturing activities, and we are currently using third-party contract manufacturing organizations. manufacturing antibodies and products containing antibodies is a more complex process than manufacturing small molecule drugs and subject to additional risks. the process of manufacturing antibodies and products containing antibodies is highly susceptible to product loss due to contamination, equipment failure or improper installation or operation of equipment, vendor or operator error, inconsistency in yields, variability in product characteristics, and difficulties in scaling up the production process. even minor deviations from normal manufacturing processes could result in reduced production yields, product defects and other supply disruptions. if microbial, viral or other contaminations are discovered in our product candidates or in the manufacturing facilities in which our product candidates are made, such manufacturing facilities may need to be closed for an extended period of time to investigate and remedy the contamination. if we fail to comply with the extensive legal and regulatory requirements affecting the health care industry, we could face increased costs, penalties and a loss of business. our activities, and the activities of our collaborators, partners and third-party providers, are subject to extensive government regulation and oversight both in the united states and in foreign jurisdictions. the fda and comparable agencies in other jurisdictions directly regulate many of our most critical business activities, including the conduct of preclinical and clinical studies, product manufacturing, advertising and promotion, product distribution, adverse event reporting and product risk management. states increasingly have been placing greater restrictions on the marketing practices of healthcare companies and have instituted pricing disclosure and other requirements for companies selling pharmaceuticals. in addition, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have been the target of lawsuits and 43 table of contents investigations alleging violations of government regulations, including claims asserting submission of incorrect pricing information, improper promotion of pharmaceutical products, payments intended to influence the referral of federal or state healthcare business, submission of false claims for government reimbursement, antitrust violations, violations of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and similar anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws, or violations related to environmental matters. there is also enhanced scrutiny of company-sponsored patient assistance programs, including insurance premium and co-pay assistance programs and donations to third-party charities that provide such assistance. in december 2018, we received a civil investigative demand from the u.s. department of justice for documents and information relating to our speaker programs and patient assistance programs, including our support of non-profit organizations that provide financial assistance to eligible patients. violations of governmental regulation by us, our vendors or donation recipients may be punishable by criminal and civil sanctions, including damages, fines and penalties and exclusion from participation in government programs, including medicare and medicaid. in addition to damages, fines and penalties for violation of laws and regulations, we could be required to repay amounts we received from government payors, or pay additional rebates and interest if we are found to have miscalculated the pricing information we have submitted to the government. actions taken by federal or local governments, legislative bodies and enforcement agencies with respect to these legal and regulatory compliance matters could also result in reduced demand for our products, reduced coverage of our products by health care payors, or both. we cannot ensure that our compliance controls, policies, and procedures will in every instance protect us from acts committed by our employees, collaborators, partners or third-party providers that would violate the laws or regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate. whether or not we have complied with the law, an investigation into alleged unlawful conduct could increase our expenses, damage our reputation, divert management time and attention and adversely affect our business. risks relating to compliance with laws and regulations may be heightened as we continue to expand our global operations and enter new therapeutic areas with different patient populations, which due to different product distribution methods, marketing programs or patient assistance programs may result in additional regulatory burdens and obligations. the illegal distribution and sale by third parties of counterfeit or unfit versions of our or our collaborators' products or stolen products could harm our business and reputation. we are aware that counterfeit versions of our products have been distributed or sold by entities not authorized by us using product packaging suggesting that the product was provided by us. if unauthorized third parties illegally distribute and sell counterfeit versions of our or our collaborators' products, those products may not meet our or our collaborators' rigorous manufacturing, distribution and handling standards. in addition, inventory that is stolen from warehouses, plants or while in-transit, and that is subsequently improperly stored and sold through unauthorized channels, may not meet our or our collaborators' distribution and handling standards. a patient who receives a counterfeit or unfit drug may suffer dangerous health consequences. our reputation and business could suffer harm as a result of counterfeit or unfit drugs sold under our brand name and could result in lost sales for us and decreased revenues. if counterfeit or unfit drugs are sold under our or our collaborators' brand names, our reputation and business could suffer harm and we could experience decreased royalty revenues. as most of our drug discovery and development operations are conducted at our headquarters in wilmington, delaware, the loss of access to this facility would negatively impact our business. our facility in wilmington, delaware is our headquarters and is also where we conduct most of our drug discovery, research, development and marketing activities. in addition, natural disasters or actions of activists opposed to aspects of pharmaceutical research may disrupt our experiments or our ability to access or use our facility. the loss of access to or use of our wilmington, delaware facility, either on a temporary or permanent basis, would result in an interruption of our business and, consequently, would adversely affect our overall business. we depend on key employees in a competitive market for skilled personnel, and the loss of the services of any of our key employees or our inability to attract and retain additional personnel would affect our ability to expand our drug discovery and development programs and achieve our objectives. we are highly dependent on the members of our executive management team and principal members of our commercial, development, medical, operations and scientific staff. we experience intense competition for qualified personnel. our future success also depends in part on the continued service of our executive management team and key 44 table of contents personnel and our ability to recruit, train and retain essential personnel for our drug discovery and development programs, and for our medical affairs and commercialization activities. if we lose the services of any of these people or if we are unable to recruit sufficient qualified personnel, our research and product development goals, and our commercialization efforts could be delayed or curtailed. we do not maintain key person insurance on any of our employees. if we fail to manage our growth effectively, our ability to develop and commercialize products could suffer. we expect that if our drug discovery efforts continue to generate drug candidates, our clinical drug candidates continue to progress in development, and we continue to build our development, medical and commercial organizations, we will require significant additional investment in personnel, management and resources. our ability to achieve our research, development and commercialization objectives depends on our ability to respond effectively to these demands and expand our internal organization, systems, controls and facilities to accommodate additional anticipated growth. if we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business could be harmed and our ability to execute our business strategy could suffer. we may acquire businesses or assets, form joint ventures or make investments in other companies that may be unsuccessful, divert our management's attention and harm our operating results and prospects. as part of our business strategy, we may pursue additional acquisitions of what we believe to be complementary businesses or assets or seek to enter into joint ventures. we also may pursue strategic alliances in an effort to leverage our existing infrastructure and industry experience to expand our product offerings or distribution, or make investments in other companies. for example, in june 2016, we completed the acquisition of the european operations of ariad and obtained the exclusive license to develop and commercialize iclusig in europe and other countries. the success of our acquisitions, joint ventures, strategic alliances and investments will depend on our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and, in the case of acquisitions, integrate those transactions and, if necessary, obtain satisfactory debt or equity financing to fund those transactions. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, joint venture, strategic alliance or investment. we may not be able to integrate acquisitions successfully into our existing business, achieve planned synergies or cost savings, maintain the key business relationships of businesses we acquire, or retain key personnel of an acquired business, and we could assume unknown or contingent liabilities or incur unanticipated expenses. integration of acquired companies or businesses also may require management resources that otherwise would be available for ongoing development of our existing business. any acquisitions or investments made by us also could result in significant write-offs or the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could harm our operating results. for example, as recently as the year ended december 31, 2018, we recorded unrealized losses related to our investments in agenus inc., calithera biosciences, inc., merus n.v. and syros pharmaceuticals, inc., and we may in the future experience additional losses related to our investments. in addition, if we choose to issue shares of our stock as consideration for any acquisition, dilution to our stockholders could result. risks associated with the expansion of our operations outside of the united states could adversely affect our business. our acquisition of ariad's european operations significantly expanded our operations in europe, and we plan to continue to expand our operations and conduct certain development activities outside of the united states. for example, as part of our plans to expand our activities outside of the united states, we now conduct some of our drug development activities in japan and are in the process of opening an office in china. international operations and business expansion plans are subject to numerous additional risks, including: multiple, conflicting and changing laws and regulations such as tax laws, privacy regulations, tariffs, export and import restrictions, employment, immigration and labor laws, regulatory requirements, and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses, compliance with which can increase in complexity as we enter into additional jurisdictions; difficulties in staffing and managing operations in diverse countries and difficulties in connection with assimilating and integrating any operations and personnel we might acquire into our company; 45 table of contents risks associated with obtaining and maintaining, or the failure to obtain or maintain, regulatory approvals for the sale or use of our products in various countries; complexities associated with managing government payor systems, multiple payor-reimbursement regimes or patient self-pay systems; financial risks, such as longer payment cycles, difficulty obtaining financing in foreign markets, difficulty enforcing contracts and intellectual property rights, difficulty collecting accounts receivable and exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; general political and economic conditions in the countries in which we operate, including terrorism and political unrest, curtailment of trade and other business restrictions, and uncertainties associated with the future relationship between the united kingdom and the european union; public health risks, such as the recent spread in china of coronavirus in early 2020, and related effects on supply chain, travel and employee health and availability; and regulatory and compliance risks that relate to maintaining accurate information and control over activities that may fall within the purview of the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act, its books and records provisions or its anti-bribery provisions, or similar anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws and regulations in other countries, such as the u.k. anti-bribery act and the u.k. criminal finances act, which may have similarly broad extraterritorial reach. any of the risks described above, if encountered, could significantly increase our costs of operating internationally, prevent us from operating in certain jurisdictions, or otherwise significantly harm our future international expansion and operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. if product liability lawsuits are brought against us, we could face substantial liabilities and may be required to limit commercialization of our products and our results of operations could be harmed. in addition to the risks described above under risks relating to commercialization of our products if the use of our products harms patients, or is perceived to harm patients even when such harm is unrelated to our products, our regulatory approvals could be revoked or otherwise negatively impacted or we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims, the conduct of clinical trials of medical products that are intended for human use entails an inherent risk of product liability. if any product that we or any of our collaborators or licensees develops causes or is alleged to cause injury during clinical trials or commercialization, we may be held liable. if we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities, including substantial damages to be paid to the plaintiffs and legal costs, or we may be required to limit further development and commercialization of our products. additionally, any product liability lawsuit could cause injury to our reputation, participants and investigators to withdraw from clinical trials, and potential collaborators or licensees to seek other partners, any of which could impact our results of operations. our product liability insurance policy may not fully cover our potential liabilities. in addition, we may determine that we should increase our coverage, and this insurance may be prohibitively expensive to us or our collaborators or licensees and may not fully cover our potential liabilities. since december 30, 2017, we elected to self-insure a portion of our exposure to product liability risks through our wholly-owned captive insurance subsidiary, in tandem with third-party insurance policies. our inability to obtain sufficient product liability insurance at an acceptable cost to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the development or commercialization of our drug candidates and products, and if our liabilities from any such claims exceed our third-party insurance limits and self-insurance reserves, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely impacted. 46 table of contents because our activities involve the use of hazardous materials, we may be subject to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials that could be time consuming and costly. we are subject to various environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the use, handling, storage and disposal of regulated substances and the health and safety of our employees. our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous and radioactive materials and biological waste resulting in the production of hazardous waste products. we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. if any injury or contamination results from our use or the use by our collaborators or licensees of these materials, we may be sued and our liability may exceed our insurance coverage and our total assets. further, we may be required to indemnify our collaborators or licensees against all damages and other liabilities arising out of our development activities or products produced in connection with these collaborations or licenses. compliance with the applicable environmental and workplace laws and regulations is expensive. future changes to environmental, health, workplace and safety laws could cause us to incur additional expense or may restrict our operations or impair our research, development and production efforts. risks relating to our financial results we may incur losses in the future, and we expect to continue to incur significant expenses to discover and develop drugs, which may make it difficult for us to achieve sustained profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. due to historical net losses, we had an accumulated deficit of $1.4 billion as of december 31, 2019. we intend to continue to spend significant amounts on our efforts to discover and develop drugs. as a result, we may incur losses in future periods as well. our revenues, expenses and net income (loss) may fluctuate, even significantly, due to the risks described in these risk factors and factors discussed in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations as well as the timing of charges and expenses that we may take, including those relating to transactions such as acquisitions and the entry into collaborative agreements. we anticipate that our drug discovery and development efforts and related expenditures will increase as we focus on the studies, including preclinical tests and clinical trials prior to seeking regulatory approval, that are required before we can sell a drug product. the development of drug products will require us to spend significant funds on research, development, testing, obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing and marketing. to date, we do not have any drug products that have generated significant revenues other than from sales of jakafi and we cannot assure you that we will generate significant revenues from the drug candidates that we license or develop, including iclusig, for several years, if ever. we cannot be certain whether or when we will achieve sustained or increased profitability on a quarterly or annual basis because of the factors discussed above and the significant uncertainties relating to our ability to generate commercially successful drug products. even if we are successful in obtaining regulatory approvals for manufacturing and commercializing drug products in addition to jakafi and iclusig, we may incur losses if our drug products do not generate significant revenues. we may need additional capital in the future. if we are unable to generate sufficient funds from operations, the capital markets may not permit us to raise additional capital at the time that we require it, which could result in limitations on our research and development or commercialization efforts or the loss of certain of our rights in our technologies or drug candidates. our future funding requirements will depend on many factors and we anticipate that we may need to raise additional capital to fund our business plan and research and development efforts going-forward. additional factors that may affect our future funding requirements include: the amount of revenues generated from our business activities; 47 table of contents any changes in the breadth of our research and development programs; the results of research and development, preclinical testing and clinical trials conducted by us or our current or future collaborators or licensees, if any; our exercise of any co-development options with collaborators that may require us to fund future development; the acquisition of businesses, technologies, or drug candidates, or the licensing of technologies or drug candidates, if any; costs for future facility requirements; our ability to maintain and establish new corporate relationships and research collaborations; competing technological and market developments; the time and costs involved in filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing patent and intellectual property claims; the receipt of contingent licensing or milestone fees or royalties on product sales from our current or future collaborative and license arrangements, if established; and the timing of regulatory approvals, if any. if we require additional capital at a time when investment in companies such as ours, or in the marketplace generally, is limited due to the then prevailing market or other conditions, we may have to scale back our operations, eliminate one or more of our research or development programs, or attempt to obtain funds by entering into an agreement with a collaborator or licensee that would result in terms that are not favorable to us or relinquishing our rights in certain of our proprietary technologies or drug candidates. if we are unable to raise funds at the time that we desire or at any time thereafter on acceptable terms, we may not be able to continue to develop our drug candidates. the sale of equity or additional convertible debt securities in the future may be dilutive to our stockholders and may provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our holders of common stock, and debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that could restrict our operations or our ability to incur further indebtedness. our marketable securities and long term investments are subject to risks that could adversely affect our overall financial position. we invest our cash in accordance with an established internal policy and customarily in instruments, corporate bonds and money market funds which historically have been highly liquid and carried relatively low risk. in recent periods, similar types of investments and money market funds have experienced losses in value or liquidity issues that differ from their historical pattern. should a portion of our cash or marketable securities lose value or have their liquidity impaired, it could adversely affect our overall financial position by imperiling our ability to fund our operations and forcing us to seek additional financing sooner than we would otherwise. such financing, if available, may not be available on commercially attractive terms. as discussed under other risks relating to our business we may acquire businesses or assets, form joint ventures or make investments in other companies that may be unsuccessful, divert our management's attention and harm our operating results and prospects, any investments that we may make in companies with which we have strategic alliances, such as agenus and merus, could result in our recognition of losses on those investments. in addition, to the extent we may seek to sell or otherwise monetize those investments, we may not be able to do so at our desired price or 48 table of contents valuation levels, or at all, due to the limited liquidity of some or all of those investments. any loss in value of our long term investments could adversely affect our financial position on the consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of operations. our current revenues are derived from jakafi and iclusig product sales, jakavi and olumiant product royalties, collaborations and from licensing our intellectual property. if we are unable to achieve milestones, develop products or renew or enter into new collaborations, our revenues may decrease, and future milestone and royalty payments may not contribute significantly to revenues for several years, and may never result in revenues. we derived substantially all of our revenues for the year ended december 31, 2019 from jakafi and iclusig product revenues, jakavi and olumiant product royalties and our collaborations and licensing our intellectual property to others. future revenues from research and development collaborations depend upon continuation of the collaborations, the achievement of milestones and royalties we earn from any future products developed from our research. if we are unable to successfully achieve milestones or our collaborators fail to develop successful products, we will not earn the future revenues contemplated under our collaborative agreements. for example, delays in or other limitations with respect to the approval of baricitinib in the united states for the treatment of moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis, or the failure to obtain such approval, as discussed under we depend on our collaborators and licensees for the future development and commercialization of some of our drug candidates. conflicts may arise between our collaborators and licensees and us, or our collaborators and licensees may choose to terminate their agreements with us, which may adversely affect our business. would affect potential future royalty and milestone and contract revenue. in addition, our revenues are subject to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations due to the global nature of our operations. to the extent that our non-u.s. source revenues represent a more significant portion of our total revenues, these fluctuations could materially affect our operating results. risks relating to intellectual property and legal matters if we are subject to arbitration, litigation and infringement claims, they could be costly and disrupt our drug discovery and development efforts. the technology that we use to make and develop our drug products, the technology that we incorporate in our products, and the products we are developing may be subject to claims that they infringe the patents or proprietary rights of others. the success of our drug discovery and development efforts will also depend on our ability to develop new compounds, drugs and technologies without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. we are aware of patents and patent applications filed in certain countries claiming intellectual property relating to some of our drug discovery targets and drug candidates. while the validity of issued patents, patentability of pending patent applications and applicability of any of them to our programs are uncertain, if any of these patents are asserted against us or if we choose to license any of these patents, our ability to commercialize our products could be harmed or the potential return to us from any product that may be successfully commercialized could be diminished. from time to time we have received, and we may in the future receive, notices from third parties offering licenses to technology or alleging patent, trademark, or copyright infringement, claims regarding trade secrets or other contract claims. receipt of these notices could result in significant costs as a result of the diversion of the attention of management from our drug discovery and development efforts. parties sending these notices may have brought and in the future may bring litigation against us or seek arbitration relating to contract claims. we may be involved in future lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights or contract violations. in addition, litigation or other legal proceedings may be necessary to: assert claims of infringement; enforce our patents or trademarks; protect our trade secrets or know-how; or 49 table of contents determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. we may be unsuccessful in defending or pursuing these lawsuits, claims or other legal proceedings. regardless of the outcome, litigation or other legal proceedings can be very costly and can divert management's efforts. an adverse determination may subject us to significant liabilities or require us or our collaborators or licensees to seek licenses to other parties' patents or proprietary rights. we or our collaborators or licensees may also be restricted or prevented from manufacturing or selling a drug or other product that we or they develop. further, we or our future collaborators or licensees may not be able to obtain any necessary licenses on acceptable terms, if at all. if we are unable to develop non-infringing technology or license technology on a timely basis or on reasonable terms, our business could be harmed. we may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our proprietary information, which may result in its unauthorized use, a loss of revenue under a collaboration agreement or loss of sales to generic versions of our products or otherwise reduce our ability to compete in developing and commercializing products. our business and competitive position depends in significant part upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology, including any drug products that we create. despite our efforts to protect this information, unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. for example, one of our collaborators may disclose proprietary information pertaining to our drug discovery efforts. in addition, while we have filed numerous patent applications with respect to ruxolitinib and our drug candidates in the united states and in foreign countries, our patent applications may fail to result in issued patents. in addition, because patent applications can take several years to issue as patents, there may be pending patent applications of others that may later issue as patents that cover some aspect of ruxolitinib and our drug candidates. our existing patents and any future patents we may obtain may not be broad enough to protect our products or all of the potential uses of our products, or otherwise prevent others from developing competing products or technologies. in addition, our patents may be challenged and invalidated or may fail to provide us with any competitive advantages if, for example, others were first to invent or first to file a patent application for the technologies and products covered by our patents. as noted above under risks relating to commercialization of our products competition for our products could potentially harm our business and result in a decrease in our revenue, a potential generic drug company competitor has challenged certain patents relating to jakafi. additionally, when we do not control the prosecution, maintenance and enforcement of certain important intellectual property, such as a drug candidate in-licensed to us or subject to a collaboration with a third-party, the protection of the intellectual property rights may not be in our hands. if we do not control the intellectual property rights in-licensed to us with respect to a drug candidate and the entity that controls the intellectual property rights does not adequately protect those rights, our rights may be impaired, which may impact our ability to develop, market and commercialize the in-licensed drug candidate. our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate, and our competitors may: independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, products and techniques; otherwise gain access to our proprietary information; or design around patents issued to us or our other intellectual property. we pursue a policy of having our employees, consultants and advisors execute proprietary information and invention agreements when they begin working for us. however, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure. if we fail to maintain trade secret and patent protection, our potential future revenues may be decreased. if the effective term of our patents is decreased due to changes in the united states patent laws or if we need to refile some of our patent applications, the value of our patent portfolio and the revenues we derive from it may be decreased. the value of our patents depends, in part, on their duration. a shorter period of patent protection could lessen the value of our rights under any patents that we obtain and may decrease the revenues we derive from our patents. the united 50 table of contents states patent laws provide a term of patent protection of 20 years from the earliest effective filing date of the patent application. because the time from filing to issuance of biotechnology applications may be more than three years depending on the subject matter, a 20-year patent term from the filing date may result in substantially shorter patent protection. additionally, united states patent laws were amended in 2011 with the enactment of the america invents act and third parties are now able to challenge the validity of issued u.s. patents through various review proceedings; thus rendering the validity of u.s. patents more uncertain. we may be obligated to participate in review proceedings to determine the validity of our u.s. patents. we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these proceedings, the conduct of which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts and resources. if we are unsuccessful in these proceedings some or all of our claims in the patents may be narrowed or invalidated and the patent protection for our products and drug candidates in the united states could be substantially shortened. further, if all of the patents covering one of our products are invalidated, the fda could approve requests to manufacture a generic version of that product prior to the expiration date of those patents. other changes in the united states patent laws or changes in the interpretation of patent laws could diminish the value of our patents or narrow the scope of our patent protection. for example, the supreme court of the united states resolved a split among the circuit courts of appeals regarding antitrust challenges to settlements of patent infringement lawsuits under the hatch-waxman act between brand-name drug companies and generic drug companies. the court rejected the scope of the patent test and ruled that settlements involving reverse payments from brand-name drug companies to generic drug companies should be analyzed under the rule of reason. this ruling may create uncertainty and make it more difficult to settle patent litigation if a company seeking to manufacture a generic version of one of our products challenges the patents covering that product prior to the expiration date of those patents. international patent protection is particularly uncertain and costly, and our involvement in opposition proceedings in foreign countries may result in the expenditure of substantial sums and management resources. biotechnology and pharmaceutical patent law outside the united states is even more uncertain and costly than in the united states and is currently undergoing review and revision in many countries. further, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as united states laws. for example, certain countries do not grant patent claims that are directed to the treatment of humans. we have participated, and may in the future participate, in opposition proceedings to determine the validity of our foreign patents or our competitors' foreign patents, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our efforts. successful challenges to our patent or other intellectual property rights through these proceedings could result in a loss of rights in the relevant jurisdiction and allow third parties to use our proprietary technologies without a license from us or our collaborators, which may also result in loss of future royalty payments. in addition, successful challenges may jeopardize or delay our ability to enter into new collaborations or commercialize potential products, which could harm our business and results of operations. risks relating to information technology and data privacy significant disruptions of information technology systems, breaches of data security, or unauthorized disclosures of sensitive data or personally identifiable information or individually identifiable health information could adversely affect our business, and could subject us to liability or reputational damage. our business is increasingly dependent on critical, complex, and interdependent information technology (it) systems, including internet-based systems, some of which are managed or hosted by third parties, to support business processes as well as internal and external communications. the size and complexity of our it systems make us potentially vulnerable to it system breakdowns, malicious intrusion, and computer viruses, which may result in the impairment of our ability to operate our business effectively. we are continuously evaluating and, where appropriate, enhancing our it systems to address our planned growth, including to support our planned manufacturing operations. there are inherent costs and risks associated with implementing the enhancements to our it systems, including potential delays in access to, or errors in, critical business and financial information, substantial capital expenditures, additional administrative time and operating expenses, retention of sufficiently skilled personnel to implement and operate the enhanced systems, demands on management time, and costs 51 table of contents of delays or difficulties in transitioning to the enhanced systems, any of which could harm our business and results of operations. in addition, the implementation of enhancements to our it systems may not result in productivity improvements at a level that outweighs the costs of implementation, or at all. in addition, our systems and the systems of our third-party providers and collaborators are potentially vulnerable to data security breaches which may expose sensitive data to unauthorized persons or to the public. such data security breaches could lead to the loss of confidential information, trade secrets or other intellectual property, could lead to the public exposure of personal information (including personally identifiable information or individually identifiable health information) of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, business partners, and others, could lead to potential identity theft, or could lead to reputational harm. data security breaches could also result in loss of clinical trial data or damage to the integrity of that data. in addition, the increased use of social media by our employees and contractors could result in inadvertent disclosure of sensitive data or personal information, including but not limited to, confidential information, trade secrets and other intellectual property. any such disruption or security breach, as well as any action by us or our employees or contractors that might be inconsistent with the rapidly evolving data privacy and security laws and regulations applicable within the united states and elsewhere where we conduct business, could result in enforcement actions by u.s. states, the u.s. federal government or foreign governments, liability or sanctions under data privacy laws, including healthcare laws such as hipaa, that protect certain types of sensitive information, regulatory penalties, other legal proceedings such as but not limited to private litigation, the incurrence of significant remediation costs, disruptions to our development programs, business operations and collaborations, diversion of management efforts and damage to our reputation, which could harm our business and operations. because of the rapidly moving nature of technology and the increasing sophistication of cybersecurity threats, our measures to prevent, respond to and minimize such risks may be unsuccessful. in addition, the european parliament and the council of the european union has adopted a comprehensive general data privacy regulation, known as the gdpr, which governs the collection and use of personal data in the european union. the gdpr, which is wide-ranging in scope, imposes several requirements relating to the consent of the individuals to whom the personal data relates, the information provided to the individuals, the security and confidentiality of the personal data, data breach notification and the use of third party processors in connection with the processing of the personal data. the gdpr also imposes strict rules on the transfer of personal data out of the european union to the united states, provides an enforcement authority and imposes large penalties for noncompliance, including the potential for fines of up to 20 million or 4% of the annual global revenues of the infringer, whichever is greater. the gdpr and other similar laws or regulations enacted in the united states or other jurisdictions associated with the enhanced protection of certain types of sensitive data, including healthcare data or other personal information, may increase our costs of doing business, and the differing requirements of these laws and regulations can complicate our compliance efforts. increasing use of social media could give rise to liability, breaches of data security, or reputational damage. we and our employees are increasingly utilizing social media tools as a means of communication both internally and externally. despite our efforts to monitor evolving social media communication guidelines and comply with applicable rules, there is risk that the use of social media by us or our employees to communicate about our products or business may cause us to be found in violation of applicable requirements. in addition, our employees may knowingly or inadvertently make use of social media in ways that may not comply with our social media policy or other legal or contractual requirements, which may give rise to liability, lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or result in public exposure of personal information of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. furthermore, negative posts or comments about us or our products in social media could seriously damage our reputation, brand image, and goodwill. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 72 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market ris k our investments in marketable securities, which are composed primarily of corporate debt securities and u.s. government securities, are subject to default, changes in credit rating and changes in market value. these investments are also subject to interest rate risk and will decrease in value if market interest rates increase. as of december 31, 2019, marketable securities were $284.9 million. due to the nature of these investments, if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10% from levels as of december 31, 2019, the decline in fair value would not be material. 72 table of contents