quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk - ----------- we are exposed to interest-rate changes primarily related to the variable interest rate on the line of credit and the refinancing of long-term debt which currently contain fixed interest rates. our interest-rate risk management objective is to limit the impact of interest-rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. to achieve these objectives, we borrow primarily at fixed interest rates and may enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest-rate swaps, caps and treasury locks in order to mitigate our interest-rate risk on a related financial instrument. we have no plans to enter into derivative or interest-rate transactions for speculative purposes. our interest-rate risk is monitored using a variety of techniques. the table below presents the principal cash flows (in thousands), weighted average interest rates of remaining debt, and the fair value of total debt (in thousands), by year of expected maturity to evaluate the expected cash flows and sensitivity to interest-rate changes. fair 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 thereafter total value ---- ---- ---- ---- ---- ---------- ----- ----- fixed rate debt $ 213,055 151,869 24,259 28,581 22,315 770,680 1,210,759 1,280,502 average interest rate for all debt 7.60% 7.60% 7.60% 7.59% 7.61% 7.61% - - variable rate libor debt $ 211,629 25,000 - - - - 236,629 236,629 average interest rate for all debt 2.49% 2.49% - - - - - - as the table incorporates only those exposures that exist as of december 31, 2003, it does not consider those exposures or positions, which could arise after that date. moreover, because firm commitments are not presented in the table above, the information presented above has limited predictive value. as a result, our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to interest-rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise during the period, our hedging strategies at that time, and actual interest rates.risk factors 3 risk factors related to our industry and real estate investments downturns in the retail industry likely will have a direct adverse impact on our revenues and cash flow. our properties consist primarily of grocery-anchored shopping centers. our performance therefore is generally linked to economic conditions in the market for retail space. the market for retail space has been or could be adversely affected by any of the following: weakness in the national, regional and local economies, which could adversely impact consumer spending and retail sales and in turn tenant demand for space and lead to increased store closings; consequences of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attack against, the united states; adverse financial conditions for large retail companies; the ongoing consolidation in the retail sector; the excess amount of retail space in a number of markets; reduction in the demand by tenants to occupy our shopping centers as a result of reduced consumer demand for certain retail formats such as video rental stores; a shift in retail shopping from brick and mortar stores to internet retailers and catalogs; the growth of super-centers, such as those operated by wal-mart, and their adverse effect on major grocery chains; and the impact of increased energy costs on consumers and its consequential effect on the number of shopping visits to our centers. to the extent that any of these conditions occur, they are likely to impact market rents for retail space, occupancy in the operating portfolios, our ability to recycle capital, and our cash available for distributions to stock and unit holders. our revenues and cash flow could be adversely affected by poor economic or market conditions where our properties are geographically concentrated, which may impede our ability to generate sufficient income to pay expenses and maintain our properties. the economic conditions in markets in which our properties are concentrated greatly influence our financial performance. during the year ended december 31, 2011 , our properties in california, florida, and texas accounted for 31.6%, 14.5%, and 13.1%, respectively, of our consolidated net operating income. our revenues and cash available to pay expenses, maintain our properties, and for distribution to stock and unit holders could be adversely affected by this geographic concentration if market conditions, such as supply of retail space or demand for shopping centers, deteriorate in california, florida, or texas relative to other geographic areas. loss of revenues from major tenants could reduce distributions to stock and unit holders. we derive significant revenues from anchor tenants such as kroger, publix and safeway which are our three largest anchor tenants and accounted for 4.2% , 4.4% , and 3.7% , respectively, of our annualized base rent from consolidated properties plus our pro-rata share of annualized base rent from unconsolidated properties ("pro-rata basis") for the year ended december 31, 2011 . distributions to stock and unit holders could be adversely affected by the loss of revenues in the event a major tenant: becomes bankrupt or insolvent; experiences a downturn in its business; materially defaults on its leases; does not renew its leases as they expire; or renews at lower rental rates. vacated anchor space, including space owned by the anchor, can reduce rental revenues generated by the shopping center because of the loss of the departed anchor tenant's customer drawing power. most anchors have the right to vacate and prevent re-tenanting by paying rent for the balance of the lease term. if major tenants vacate a property, then other tenants may be entitled to terminate their leases at the property. 4 our net income depends on the success and continued presence of our tenants. our net income could be adversely affected if we fail to lease significant portions of our new developments or in the event of bankruptcy or insolvency of any anchors or of a significant number of our non-anchor tenants within a shopping center. the adverse impact on our net income may be greater than the loss of rent from the resulting unoccupied space because co-tenancy clauses may allow other tenants to modify or terminate their rent or lease obligations. co-tenancy clauses have several variants: they may allow a tenant to postpone a store opening if certain other tenants fail to open their stores; they may allow a tenant to close its store prior to lease expiration if another tenant closes its store prior to lease expiration; or more commonly, they may allow a tenant to pay reduced levels of rent until a certain number of tenants open their stores within the same shopping center. we may be unable to collect balances due from tenants in bankruptcy. although base rent is supported by long-term lease contracts, tenants who file bankruptcy have the legal right to reject any or all of their leases and close related stores. in the event that a tenant with a significant number of leases in our shopping centers files bankruptcy and cancels its leases, we could experience a significant reduction in our revenues and may not be able to collect all pre-petition amounts owed by that party. our real estate assets may be subject to impairment charges. our long-lived assets, primarily real estate held for investment, are carried at cost unless circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. we evaluate whether there are any indicators, including property operating performance and general market conditions, that the value of the real estate properties (including any related amortizable intangible assets or liabilities) may not be recoverable. through the evaluation, we compare the current carrying value of the asset to the estimated undiscounted cash flows that are directly associated with the use and ultimate disposition of the asset. our estimated cash flows are based on several key assumptions, including rental rates, costs of tenant improvements, leasing commissions, anticipated hold period, and assumptions regarding the residual value upon disposition, including the exit capitalization rate. these key assumptions are subjective in nature and could differ materially from actual results. changes in our disposition strategy or changes in the marketplace may alter the hold period of an asset or asset group which may result in an impairment loss and such loss could be material to the company's financial condition or operating performance. to the extent that the carrying value of the asset exceeds the estimated undiscounted cash flows, an impairment loss is recognized equal to the excess of carrying value over fair value. if such indicators are not identified, management will not assess the recoverability of a property's carrying value. the fair value of real estate assets is highly subjective and is determined through comparable sales information and other market data if available, or through use of an income approach such as the direct capitalization method or the traditional discounted cash flow approach. such cash flow projections consider factors such as expected future operating income, trends and prospects, as well as the effects of demand, competition and other factors, and therefore is subject to a significant degree of management judgment and changes in those factors could impact the determination of fair value. in estimating the fair value of undeveloped land, we generally use market data and comparable sales information. these subjective assessments have a direct impact on our net income because recording an impairment charge results in an immediate negative adjustment to net income. there can be no assurance that we will not take additional charges in the future related to the impairment of our assets. any future impairment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the charge is taken. adverse global market and economic conditions may adversely affect us and could cause us to recognize additional impairment charges or otherwise harm our performance. we are unable to predict the timing, severity, and length of adverse market and economic conditions. the return of adverse market and economic conditions may impede our ability to generate sufficient operating cash flow to pay expenses, maintain properties, pay distributions to our stock and unit holders, and refinance debt. during these adverse periods, there may be significant uncertainty in the valuation of our properties and investments that could result in a substantial decrease in their value. no assurance can be given that we would be able to recover the current carrying amount of all of our properties and investments in the future. our failure to do so would require us to recognize additional impairment charges for the period in which we reached that conclusion, which could materially and adversely affect us and the market price of our common stock. 5 our acquisition activities may not produce the returns that we expect. our investment strategy includes investing in high-quality grocery-anchored shopping centers that are leased by market-dominant grocers, category-leading anchors, specialty retailers, and restaurants located in areas with above average household incomes and population densities. the acquisition of properties entails risks that include the following, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to meet our obligations: our estimate of the costs to improve, reposition or redevelop a property may prove to be too low, or the time we estimate to complete the improvement, repositioning or redevelopment may be too short. as a result, the property may fail to achieve the returns we have projected, either temporarily or for a longer time; we may not be able to identify suitable properties to acquire or may be unable to complete the acquisition of the properties we identify; we may not be able to integrate an acquisition into our existing operations successfully; properties we acquire may fail to achieve the occupancy or rental rates we project, within the time frames we project, at the time we make the decision to invest, which may result in the properties' failure to achieve the returns we projected; our pre-acquisition evaluation of the physical condition of each new investment may not detect certain defects or identify necessary repairs until after the property is acquired, which could significantly increase our total acquisition costs or decrease cash flow from the property; and our investigation of a property or building prior to our acquisition, and any representations we may receive from the seller of such building or property, may fail to reveal various liabilities, which could reduce the cash flow from the property or increase our acquisition cost. unsuccessful development activities or a slowdown in development activities will have a direct impact on our revenues and our revenue growth. we actively pursue development activities as opportunities arise. development activities require various government and other approvals for entitlements which can significantly delay the development process. we may not recover our investment in development projects for which approvals are not received. we incur other risks associated with development activities, including: the ability to lease up developments to full occupancy on a timely basis; the risk that occupancy rates and rents of a completed project will not be sufficient to make the project profitable and available for contribution to our co-investment partnerships or sale to third parties; the risk that the current size of our development pipeline will strain the organization's capacity to complete the developments within the targeted timelines and at the expected returns on invested capital; the risk that we may abandon development opportunities and lose our investment in these developments; the risk that development costs of a project may exceed original estimates, possibly making the project unprofitable; delays in the development and construction process; and the lack of cash flow during the construction period; if our developments are unsuccessful or we experience a slowdown in development activities, our revenue growth and/or operating expenses may be adversely impacted. we may experience difficulty or delay in renewing leases or re-leasing space. we derive most of our revenue directly or indirectly from rent received from our tenants. we are subject to the risks that, upon expiration or termination of leases, leases for space in our properties may not be renewed, space may not be re-leased, or the terms of renewal or re-lease, including the cost of required renovations or concessions to tenants, may be less favorable than current lease terms. as a result, our results of operations and our net income could be reduced. we may be unable to sell properties when appropriate because real estate investments are illiquid. real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. we may not be able to alter our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions including being unable to sell a property at a return we believe is appropriate. our inability to respond quickly to adverse changes in the performance of our investments could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our obligations and make distributions to our stock and unit holders. 6 changes in accounting standards may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. the sec may decide in the near future that issuers in the united states should be required to prepare financial statements in accordance with international financial reporting standards ( ifrs ) instead of u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ). ifrs is a comprehensive set of accounting standards promulgated by the international accounting standards board ( iasb ), which are rapidly gaining worldwide acceptance. changes in u.s. gaap and changes in current interpretations are beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial results and condition. in certain cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised rule retroactively or apply existing rules differently which may adversely impact our results of operations or result in our recasting prior period financial statements for material amounts. additionally, significant changes to u.s. gaap may require costly technology changes, additional training and personnel, and other expenses that will negatively impact our results of operations. the adoption of new accounting rules may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) has proposed new accounting rules which could result in significant changes in the way leases and / or real estate investments are reported in our financial statements under gaap. the proposal, if adopted, could have a significant effect on our balance sheet. fasb may issue final rules on this topic in the near future. at this time, we are unable to determine what effect, if any, the adoption of this proposal will have on our financial condition, our results of operations and our financial ratios required by our debt covenants. geographic concentration of our properties makes our business vulnerable to natural disasters and severe weather conditions, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and operating results. a significant portion of our property gross leasable area is located in areas that are susceptible to the harmful effects of earthquakes, tropical storms, hurricanes, tornadoes, wildfires, and similar natural disasters. as of december 31, 2011, approximately 23.3% , 19.2% , and 12.4% of our property gross leasable area, on a consolidated basis, was located in california, florida, and texas, respectively. intense weather conditions during the last decade has caused our cost of property insurance to increase significantly. while much of the cost of this insurance is passed on to our tenants as reimbursable property costs, some tenants do not pay a pro rata share of these costs under their leases. these weather conditions also disrupt our business and the business of our tenants, which could affect the ability of some tenants to pay rent and may reduce the willingness of residents to remain in or move to the affected area. therefore, as a result of the geographic concentration of our properties, we face demonstrable risks, including higher costs, such as uninsured property losses and higher insurance premiums, and disruptions to our business and the businesses of our tenants. an uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the insurance policies on our properties could subject us to loss of capital or revenue on those properties. we carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, extended coverage, rental loss, and environmental insurance for our properties with policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties. we believe that the insurance carried on our properties is adequate and in accordance with industry standards. there are, however, some types of losses, such as from hurricanes, terrorism, wars or earthquakes, which may be uninsurable, or the cost of insuring against such losses may not be economically justifiable. in addition, tenants generally are required to indemnify and hold us harmless from liabilities resulting from injury to persons or damage to personal or real property, on or off the premises, due to activities conducted by tenants or their agents on the properties (including without limitation any environmental contamination), and at the tenant's expense, to obtain and keep in full force during the term of the lease, liability and property damage insurance policies. however, our tenants may not properly maintain their insurance policies or have the ability to pay the deductibles associated with such policies. should a loss occur that is uninsured or in an amount exceeding the combined aggregate limits for the policies noted above, or in the event of a loss that is subject to a substantial deductible under an insurance policy, we could lose all or part of our capital invested in, and anticipated revenue from, one or more of the properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to make distributions to stock and unit holders. loss of our key personnel could adversely affect the value of our performance and our parent company's stock price. we depend on the efforts of our key executive personnel. although we believe qualified replacements could be found for our key executives, the loss of their services could adversely affect performance and our parent company's stock price. 7 we face competition from numerous sources, including other real estate investment trusts and small real estate owners. the ownership of shopping centers is highly fragmented. we face competition from other real estate investment trusts as well as from numerous small owners in the acquisition, ownership, and leasing of shopping centers. we compete to develop shopping centers with other real estate investment trusts engaged in development activities as well as with local, regional, and national real estate developers. if we cannot successfully compete in our targeted markets, our cash flow, and therefore distributions to stock and unit holders, may be adversely affected. costs of environmental remediation could reduce our cash flow available for distribution to stock and unit holders. under various federal, state and local laws, an owner or manager of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on the property. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. the cost of any required remediation could exceed the value of the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner or the responsible party. the presence of, or the failure to properly remediate, hazardous or toxic substances may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease a contaminated property or to borrow using the property as collateral. any of these developments could reduce cash flow and distributions to stock and unit holders. compliance with the americans with disabilities act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make unintended expenditures that adversely affect our cash flows. all of our properties are required to comply with the americans with disabilities act ( ada ). the ada has separate compliance requirements for public accommodations and commercial facilities, but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. compliance with the ada requirements could require removal of access barriers, and noncompliance could result in imposition of fines by the u.s. government or an award of damages to private litigants, or both. while the tenants to whom we lease properties are obligated by law to comply with the ada provisions, and typically under tenant leases are obligated to cover costs associated with compliance, if required changes involve greater expenditures than anticipated, or if the changes must be made on a more accelerated basis than anticipated, the ability of these tenants to cover costs could be adversely affected. in addition, we are required to operate the properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental entities and become applicable to the properties. we may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with these requirements, and these expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our financial obligations and make distributions to our stock and unit holders. if we do not maintain the security of tenant-related information, we could incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation. we are implementing an online payment system where we will receive certain information about our tenants that will depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. a compromise of our security systems that results in information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. in addition, a security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems and could result in a disruption of our operations. we rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions and manage our business. disruptions in both our primary and secondary (back-up) systems could harm our ability to run our business. although we have independent, redundant and physically separate primary and secondary computer systems, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical computer systems. our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our employees. if our computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. any material interruption in both of our computer systems and back-up systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. 8 risk factors related to our co-investment partnerships and acquisition structure we do not have voting control over our joint venture investments, so we are unable to ensure that our objectives will be pursued. we have invested as a co-venturer in the acquisition or development of properties. these investments involve risks not present in a wholly-owned project. we do not have voting control over the ventures. the other co-venturer might (i) have interests or goals that are inconsistent with our interests or goals or (ii) otherwise impede our objectives. the other co-venturer also might become insolvent or bankrupt. these factors could limit the return that we receive from such investments or cause our cash flows to be lower than our estimates. our co-investment partnerships are an important part of our growth strategy. the termination of our co-investment partnerships could adversely affect our cash flow, operating results, and distributions to stock and unit holders. our management fee income has increased significantly as our participation in co-investment partnerships has increased. if co-investment partnerships owning a significant number of properties were dissolved for any reason, we would lose the asset and property management fees from these co-investment partnerships, which could adversely affect our operating results and our cash available for distribution to stock and unit holders. in addition, termination of the co-investment partnerships without replacing them with new co-investment partnerships could adversely affect our growth strategy. property sales to the co-investment partnerships provide us with an important source of funding for additional developments and acquisitions. without this source of capital, our ability to recycle capital, fund developments and acquisitions, and increase distributions to stock and unit holders could be adversely affected. our co-investment partnerships have $1.9 billion of debt as of december 31, 2011 , of which 13.6% will mature through 2012, which is subject to significant refinancing risks. if real estate values continue to decline, the refinancing of maturing loans, including those maturing in our joint ventures, will require us and our joint venture partners to contribute our respective pro-rata shares of capital in order to reduce refinancing requirements to acceptable loan to value levels required for new financings. risk factors related to our capital recycling and capital structure higher market capitalization rates for our properties could adversely impact our ability to recycle capital and fund developments and acquisitions, and could dilute earnings. as part of our capital recycling program, we sell operating properties that no longer meet our investment standards. we also develop certain retail centers because of their attractive margins with the intent of selling them to co-investment partnerships or other third parties for a profit. these sales proceeds are used to fund the construction of new developments. an increase in market capitalization rates could cause a reduction in the value of centers identified for sale, which would have an adverse impact on our capital recycling program by reducing the amount of cash generated and profits realized. in order to meet the cash requirements of our development program, we may be required to sell more properties than initially planned, which would have a negative impact on our earnings. we face risks associated with the use of debt to fund our business. we depend on external financing, principally debt financing, to fund the growth of our business and to ensure that we can meet ongoing maturities of our outstanding debt. our access to financing depends on our credit rating, the willingness of creditors to lend to us and conditions in the capital markets. in addition to finding creditors willing to lend to us, we are dependent upon our joint venture partners to contribute their share of any amount needed to repay or refinance existing debt when lenders reduce the amount of debt our joint ventures are eligible to refinance. without access to external financing, we would be required to pay outstanding debt with our operating cash flows and proceeds from property sales. our operating cash flows may not be sufficient to pay our outstanding debt as it comes due and real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly at a return we believe is appropriate. if we are required to deleverage our business with operating cash flows and proceeds from property sales, we may be forced to reduce the amount of, or eliminate altogether, our distributions to stock and unit holders or refrain from making investments in our business. 9 our debt financing may reduce distributions to stock and unit holders. our organizational documents do not limit the amount of debt that we may incur. in addition, we do not expect to generate sufficient funds from operations to make balloon principal payments on our debt when due. if we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, we might be forced (i) to dispose of properties, which might result in losses, or (ii) to obtain financing at unfavorable terms. either could reduce the cash flow available for distributions to stock and unit holders. if we cannot make required mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property securing the mortgage, causing the loss of cash flow from that property. covenants in our debt agreements may restrict our operating activities and adversely affect our financial condition. our unsecured notes, unsecured term loan, unsecured line of credit, and revolving credit facility contain customary covenants, including compliance with financial ratios, such as ratio of total debt to gross asset value and fixed charge coverage ratio. fixed charge coverage ratio is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("ebitda") dividend by the sum of interest expense and scheduled mortgage principal paid to our lenders plus dividends paid to our preferred stockholders. our debt arrangements also restrict our ability to enter into a transaction that would result in a change of control. these covenants may limit our operational flexibility and our acquisition activities. moreover, if we breach any of the covenants in our debt agreements, and did not cure the breach within the applicable cure period, our lenders could require us to repay the debt immediately, even in the absence of a payment default. many of our debt arrangements, including our unsecured notes, unsecured term loan, unsecured line of credit, and our revolving credit facility, are cross-defaulted, which means that the lenders under those debt arrangements can put us in default and require immediate repayment of their debt if we breach and fail to cure a default under certain of our other material debt obligations. as a result, any default under our debt covenants could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, our results of operations, our ability to meet our obligations, and the market value of our stock. we depend on external sources of capital, which may not be available in the future on favorable terms or at all. to qualify as a reit, the parent company must, among other things, distribute to its stockholders each year at least 90% of its reit taxable income (excluding any net capital gains). because of these distribution requirements, we likely will not be able to fund all future capital needs, including capital for acquisitions or developments, with income from operations. we therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. in addition, our existing debt arrangements also impose covenants that limit our flexibility in obtaining other financing, such as a prohibition on negative pledge agreements. additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of stockholders' interests and additional debt financing may substantially increase our degree of leverage. 10 risk factors related to interest rates and the market for our stock changes in economic and market conditions could adversely affect the parent company's stock price. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, many of which are out of our control, including: actual or anticipated variations in our operating results or dividends; changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates; publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry in general and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other reit's; the ability of our tenants to pay rent and meet their other obligations to us under current lease terms and our ability to re-lease space as leases expire; increases in market interest rates that drive purchasers of our stock to demand a higher dividend yield; changes in market valuations of similar companies; adverse market reaction to any additional debt we incur in the future; any future issuances of equity securities; additions or departures of key management personnel; strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; actions by institutional stockholders; speculation in the press or investment community; and general market and economic conditions. these factors may cause the market price of our common stock to decline, regardless of our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. it is impossible to ensure that the market price of our common stock will not fall in the future. a decrease in the market price of our common stock could reduce our ability to raise additional equity in the public markets. selling common stock at a decreased market price would have a dilutive impact on existing stockholders. risk factors related to federal income tax laws if the parent company fails to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, it would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. we believe that we qualify for taxation as a reit for federal income tax purposes, and we plan to operate so that we can continue to meet the requirements for taxation as a reit. if we qualify as a reit, we generally will not be subject to federal income tax on our income that we distribute currently to our stockholders. many of the reit requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. the determination that we are a reit requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances, some of which may not be totally within our control and some of which involve questions of interpretation. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income must come from specific passive sources, like rent, that are itemized in the reit tax laws. there can be no assurance that the internal revenue service ( irs ) or a court would agree with the positions we have taken in interpreting the reit requirements. we are also required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income, excluding capital gains. the fact that we hold many of our assets through co-investment partnerships and their subsidiaries further complicates the application of the reit requirements. even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our reit status. furthermore, congress and the irs might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings, that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified as a reit. also, unless the irs granted us relief under certain statutory provisions, we would remain disqualified as a reit for four years following the year we first failed to qualify. if we failed to qualify as a reit (currently and/or with respect to any tax years for which the statute of limitations has not expired), we would have to pay significant income taxes, reducing cash available to pay dividends, which would likely have a significant adverse affect on the value of our securities. in addition, we would no longer be required to pay any dividends to stockholders. although we believe that we qualify as a reit, we cannot assure you that we will continue to qualify or remain qualified as a reit for tax purposes. even if we qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. for example, if we have net income from prohibited transactions, that income will be subject to a 100% tax. in general, prohibited transactions include sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. the determination as to whether a particular sale is a prohibited transaction depends on the facts and circumstances related to that sale. while we have undertaken a significant number of asset sales in 11 recent years, we do not believe that those sales should be considered prohibited transactions, but there can be no assurance that the irs would not contend otherwise. risk factors related to our ownership limitations and the florida business corporation act restrictions on the ownership of the parent company's capital stock to preserve our reit status could delay or prevent a change in control. ownership of more than 7% by value of our outstanding capital stock is prohibited, with certain exceptions, by our articles of incorporation, for the purpose of maintaining our qualification as a reit. this 7% limitation may discourage a change in control and may also (i) deter tender offers for our capital stock, which offers may be attractive to our stockholders, or (ii) limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their capital stock that might otherwise exist if an investor attempted to assemble a block in excess of 7% of our outstanding capital stock or to affect a change in control. the issuance of the parent company's capital stock could delay or prevent a change in control. our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 30,000,000 shares of preferred stock and 10,000,000 shares of special common stock and to establish the preferences and rights of any shares issued. the issuance of preferred stock or special common stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. the provisions of the florida business corporation act regarding control share acquisitions and affiliated transactions could also deter potential acquisitions by preventing the acquiring party from voting the common stock it acquires or consummating a merger or other extraordinary corporate transaction without the approval of our disinterested stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to two significant components of interest rate risk. we have a $600.0 million unsecured line of credit (the "line") commitment and a $250.0 million unsecured term loan (the "term loan") commitment, as further described in note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. our line commitment has a variable interest rate that is based upon a variable interest rate of libor plus 125 basis points and our term loan has a variable interest rate of libor plus 145 basis points. libor rates charged on our line commitment and our term loan (collectively our "unsecured credit facilities") change monthly. the spread on the unsecured credit facilities is dependent upon maintaining specific credit ratings. if our credit ratings are downgraded, the spread on the unsecured credit facilities would increase, resulting in higher interest costs. we are also exposed to changes in interest rates when we refinance our existing long-term fixed rate debt. the objective of our interest rate risk management is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. to achieve these objectives, we borrow primarily at fixed interest rates and may enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps, or treasury locks in order to mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument. we do not enter into derivative or interest rate transactions for speculative purposes. our interest rate swaps are structured solely for the purpose of interest rate protection. during 2006, we entered into four forward-starting interest rate swaps (the swaps ) totaling $396.7 million with fixed rates of 5.399%, 5.415%, 5.399%, and 5.415%. at inception, we designated these swaps as cash flow hedges to lock in the underlying treasury rates on $400.0 million of fixed rate financing that was expected to occur in 2010 and 2011. during 2009, we paid $20.0 million to partially settle $106.0 million of the $396.7 swaps in place to hedge the $106.0 million 51 mortgage loan issued on july 1, 2009. on june 1, 2010, we paid $26.8 million to partially settle $150.0 million of the remaining $290.7 million swaps in place to hedge the $150.0 million ten-year senior unsecured notes issued on june 2, 2010. on september 30, 2010, we paid $36.7 million to settle the remaining $140.7 million of swaps to hedge the $250.0 million ten-year senior unsecured notes issued on october 7, 2010. during 2011 , the company, through a consolidated co-investment partnership, entered an interest rate swap on a $9.0 million variable rate secured loan maturing on september 1, 2014 to fix the interest rate. for the years ended december 31, 2011 and 2010 , we recognized expense of $54,000 and income of $1.4 million , respectively, for changes in hedge ineffectiveness. we have $208.7 million of fixed rate debt maturing in 2012 and 2013 that has a weighted average fixed interest rate of 6.78%, which includes $192.4 million of unsecured long-term debt that matures in january 2012. we continuously monitor the capital markets and evaluate our ability to issue new debt to repay maturing debt or fund our commitments. based upon the current capital markets, our current credit ratings, our current capacity under our line and term loan, and the number of high quality, unencumbered properties that we own which could collateralize borrowings, we expect that we will be able to successfully issue new secured or unsecured debt to fund these debt obligations. in january 2012 we borrowed the on our line and term loan to repay the $192.4 million unsecured debt maturing in january 2012. our interest rate risk is monitored using a variety of techniques. the table below presents the principal cash flows (in thousands), weighted average interest rates of remaining debt, and the fair value of total debt (in thousands) as of december 31, 2011 , by year of expected maturity to evaluate the expected cash flows and sensitivity to interest rate changes. although the average interest rate for variable rate debt is included in the table, those rates represent rates that existed at december 31, 2011 and are subject to change on a monthly basis. the table below incorporates only those exposures that exist as of december 31, 2011 and does not consider exposures or positions that could arise after that date. since firm commitments are not presented, the table has limited predictive value. as a result, our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to interest rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise during the period, our hedging strategies at that time, and actual interest rates. 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 thereafter total fair value fixed rate debt $ 199,171 23,122 172,743 401,482 19,018 1,112,536 1,928,072 2,077,432 average interest rate for all fixed rate debt (1) 5.69 % 5.67 % 5.74 % 5.89 % 5.89 % 5.89 % variable rate libor debt $ 204 204 12,257 40,000 52,665 52,907 average interest rate for all variable rate debt (1) 1.80 % 1.79 % 1.48 % (1) average interest rates at the end of each year presented. 52risk factors risk factors related to our industry and real estate investments downturns in the retail industry likely will have a direct adverse impact on our revenues and cash flow. our properties consist primarily of grocery-anchored shopping centers. our performance therefore is generally linked to economic conditions in the market for retail space. the market for retail space has been or could be adversely affected by any of the following: weakness in the national, regional and local economies, which could adversely impact consumer spending and retail sales and in turn tenant demand for space and lead to increased store closings; adverse financial conditions for grocery and retail anchors; the ongoing consolidation in the retail sector; the excess amount of retail space in a number of markets; reduction in the demand by tenants to occupy our shopping centers as a result of reduced consumer demand for certain retail formats such as video rental stores; a shift in retail shopping from brick and mortar stores to internet retailers and catalogs; the growth of super-centers and warehouse club retailers, such as those operated by wal-mart and costco, and their adverse effect on traditional grocery chains; the impact of increased energy costs on consumers and its consequential effect on the number of shopping visits to our centers; and consequences of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attack against, the united states. to the extent that any of these conditions occur, they are likely to impact market rents for retail space, occupancy in the operating portfolios, our ability to sell, acquire or develop properties, and our cash available for distributions to stock and unit holders. our revenues and cash flow could be adversely affected by poor economic or market conditions where our properties are geographically concentrated, which may impede our ability to generate sufficient income to pay expenses and maintain our properties. the economic conditions in markets in which our properties are concentrated greatly influence our financial performance. during the year ended december 31, 2012 , our properties in california, florida, and texas accounted for 30.6%, 11.1%, and 11.0%, respectively, of our net income. our revenues and cash available to pay expenses, maintain our properties, and for distributions to stock and unit holders could be adversely affected by this geographic concentration if market conditions, such as supply of or demand for retail space, deteriorate in california, florida, or texas relative to other geographic areas. loss of revenues from significant tenants could reduce distributions to stock and unit holders. we derive significant revenues from anchor tenants such as kroger, publix, safeway and supervalu, which are our four most significant anchor tenants as they account for 4.3% , 4.2% , 3.3% and 2.1% respectively, of our total annualized base rent from consolidated properties plus our pro-rata share of annualized base rent from unconsolidated properties ("pro-rata basis"), which is recognized in equity in income (loss) of investment in real estate partnerships, for the year ended december 31, 2012 . distributions to stock and unit holders could be adversely affected by the loss of revenues in the event a significant tenant: becomes bankrupt or insolvent; experiences a downturn in its business; materially defaults on its leases; does not renew its leases as they expire; or renews at lower rental rates. vacated anchor space, including space owned by the anchor, can reduce rental revenues generated by the shopping center because of the loss of the departed anchor tenant's customer drawing power. some anchors have the right to vacate and prevent re-tenanting by paying rent for the balance of the lease term. if significant tenants vacate a property, then other tenants may be entitled to terminate their leases at the property. 4 our net income depends on the success and continued occupancy of our tenants. our net income could be adversely affected in the event of bankruptcy or insolvency of any of our anchors or a significant number of our non-anchor tenants within a shopping center, or if we fail to lease significant portions of our new developments. the adverse impact on our net income may be greater than the loss of rent from the resulting unoccupied space because co-tenancy clauses in select centers may allow other tenants to modify or terminate their rent or lease obligations. co-tenancy clauses have several variants: they may allow a tenant to postpone a store opening if certain other tenants fail to open their stores; they may allow a tenant to close its store prior to lease expiration if another tenant closes its store prior to lease expiration; or more commonly, they may allow a tenant to pay reduced levels of rent until a certain number of tenants open their stores within the same shopping center. a large percentage of our revenues are derived from smaller shop tenants and our net income could be adversely impacted if our smaller shop tenants are not successful. a large percentage of our revenues are derived from smaller shop tenants (those occupying less than 10,000 square feet). smaller shop tenants may be more vulnerable to negative economic conditions as they have more limited resources than larger tenants. the types of smaller shop tenants vary from retail shops to service providers. if we are unable to attract the right type or mix of smaller shop tenants into our centers, our net income could be adversely impacted. we may be unable to collect balances due from tenants in bankruptcy. although minimum rent is supported by long-term lease contracts, tenants who file bankruptcy have the legal right to reject any or all of their leases and close related stores. in the event that a tenant with a significant number of leases in our shopping centers files bankruptcy and rejects its leases, we could experience a significant reduction in our revenues and may not be able to collect all pre-petition amounts owed by that party. our real estate assets may be subject to impairment charges. our long-lived assets, primarily real estate held for investment, are carried at cost unless circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. we evaluate whether there are any indicators, including property operating performance and general market conditions, that the value of the real estate properties (including any related amortizable intangible assets or liabilities) may not be recoverable. through the evaluation, we compare the current carrying value of the asset to the estimated undiscounted cash flows that are directly associated with the use and ultimate disposition of the asset. our estimated cash flows are based on several key assumptions, including rental rates, costs of tenant improvements, leasing commissions, anticipated hold periods, and assumptions regarding the residual value upon disposition, including the exit capitalization rate. these key assumptions are subjective in nature and could differ materially from actual results. changes in our disposition strategy or changes in the marketplace may alter the hold period of an asset or asset group, which may result in an impairment loss and such loss could be material to the company's financial condition or operating performance. to the extent that the carrying value of the asset exceeds the estimated undiscounted cash flows, an impairment loss is recognized equal to the excess of carrying value over fair value. if such indicators, as described above, are not identified, management will not assess the recoverability of a property's carrying value. the fair value of real estate assets is highly subjective and is determined through comparable sales information and other market data if available, or through use of an income approach such as the direct capitalization method or the traditional discounted cash flow approach. such cash flow projections consider factors, including expected future operating income, trends and prospects, as well as the effects of demand, competition and other factors, and therefore are subject to a significant degree of management judgment. changes in those factors could impact the determination of fair value. in estimating the fair value of undeveloped land, we generally use market data and comparable sales information. these subjective assessments have a direct impact on our net income because recording an impairment charge results in an immediate negative adjustment to net income. there can be no assurance that we will not take additional charges in the future related to the impairment of our assets. any future impairment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the charge is taken. 5 adverse global market and economic conditions may adversely affect us and could cause us to recognize additional impairment charges or otherwise harm our performance. we are unable to predict the timing, severity, and length of adverse market and economic conditions. adverse market and economic conditions may impede our ability to generate sufficient operating cash flow to pay expenses, maintain properties, pay distributions to our stock and unit holders, and refinance debt. during adverse periods, there may be significant uncertainty in the valuation of our properties and investments that could result in a substantial decrease in their value. no assurance can be given that we would be able to recover the current carrying amount of all of our properties and investments in the future. our failure to do so would require us to recognize additional impairment charges for the period in which we reached that conclusion, which could materially and adversely affect us and the market price of our common stock. our acquisition activities may not produce the returns that we expect. our investment strategy includes investing in high-quality shopping centers that are leased to market-dominant grocers, category-leading anchors, specialty retailers, or restaurants located in areas with high barriers to entry and above average household incomes and population densities. the acquisition of properties entails risks that include, but are not limited to, the following, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to meet our obligations: we may not be able to identify suitable properties to acquire or may be unable to complete the acquisition of the properties we identify; properties we acquire may fail to achieve the occupancy or rental rates we project, within the time frames we project, at the time we make the decision to invest, which may result in the properties' failure to achieve the returns we projected; our pre-acquisition evaluation of the physical condition of each new investment may not detect certain defects or identify necessary repairs until after the property is acquired, which could significantly increase our total acquisition costs or decrease cash flow from the property; our investigation of a property or building prior to our acquisition, and any representations we may receive from the seller of such building or property, may fail to reveal various liabilities, which could reduce the cash flow from the property or increase our acquisition costs; our estimate of the costs to improve, reposition or redevelop a property may prove to be too low, or the time we estimate to complete the improvement, repositioning or redevelopment may be too short, either of which could result in the property failing to achieve the returns we have projected, either temporarily or for a longer time; and we may not be able to integrate an acquisition into our existing operations successfully. unsuccessful development activities or a slowdown in development activities could have a direct impact on our revenues and our revenue growth. we actively pursue development activities as opportunities arise. development activities require various government and other approvals for entitlements and any delay in such approvals may significantly delay the development process. we may not recover our investment in development projects for which approvals are not received. we incur other risks associated with development activities, including: the ability to lease developments to full occupancy on a timely basis; the risk that occupancy rates and rents of a completed project will not be sufficient to make the project profitable; the risk that development costs of a project may exceed original estimates, possibly making the project unprofitable; delays in the development and construction process; the risk that we may abandon development opportunities and lose our investment in these developments; the risk that the current size of our development pipeline will strain the organization's capacity to complete the developments within the targeted timelines and at the expected returns on invested capital; and the lack of cash flow during the construction period. if our developments are unsuccessful or we experience a slowdown in development activities, our revenue growth and/or operating expenses may be adversely impacted. 6 we may experience difficulty or delay in renewing leases or re-leasing space. we derive most of our revenue directly or indirectly from rent received from our tenants. we are subject to the risks that, upon expiration or termination of leases, leases for space in our properties may not be renewed, space may not be re-leased, or the terms of renewal or re-lease, including the cost of required renovations or concessions to tenants, may be less favorable than current lease terms. as a result, our results of operations and our net income could be adversely impacted. we may be unable to sell properties when appropriate because real estate investments are illiquid. real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. our inability to respond promptly to unfavorable changes in the performance of our investments could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our obligations and make distributions to our stock and unit holders. geographic concentration of our properties makes our business vulnerable to natural disasters and severe weather conditions, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and operating results. a significant portion of our property gross leasable area is located in areas that are susceptible to the harmful effects of earthquakes, tropical storms, hurricanes, tornadoes, wildfires, and similar natural disasters. as of december 31, 2012, approximately 23.4% , 14.9% , and 9.5% of our property gross leasable area, on a pro-rata basis, was located in california, florida, and texas, respectively. intense weather conditions during the last decade have caused our cost of property insurance to increase significantly. while much of the cost of this insurance is passed on to our tenants as reimbursable property costs, some tenants do not pay a pro rata share of these costs under their leases. these weather conditions also disrupt our business and the business of our tenants, which could affect the ability of some tenants to pay rent and may reduce the willingness of residents to remain in or move to the affected area. therefore, as a result of the geographic concentration of our properties, we face demonstrable risks, including higher costs, such as uninsured property losses and higher insurance premiums, and disruptions to our business and the businesses of our tenants. an uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the insurance policies on our properties could subject us to loss of capital or revenue on those properties. we carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, extended coverage, rental loss, and environmental insurance for our properties with policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties. we believe that the insurance carried on our properties is adequate and consistent with industry standards. there are, however, some types of losses, such as from hurricanes, terrorism, wars or earthquakes, which may be uninsurable, or the cost of insuring against such losses may not be economically justifiable. in addition, tenants generally are required to indemnify and hold us harmless from liabilities resulting from injury to persons or damage to personal or real property, on or off the premises, due to activities conducted by tenants or their agents on the properties (including without limitation any environmental contamination), and at the tenant's expense, to obtain and keep in full force during the term of the lease, liability and property damage insurance policies. however, our tenants may not properly maintain their insurance policies or have the ability to pay the deductibles associated with such policies. should a loss occur that is uninsured or in an amount exceeding the combined aggregate limits for the policies noted above, or in the event of a loss that is subject to a substantial deductible under an insurance policy, we could lose all or part of our capital invested in, and anticipated revenue from, one or more of the properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to make distributions to stock and unit holders. loss of our key personnel could adversely affect the value of our parent company's stock price. we depend on the efforts of our key executive personnel. although we believe qualified replacements could be found for our key executives, the loss of their services could adversely affect our parent company's stock price. we face competition from numerous sources, including other real estate investment trusts and small real estate owners. the ownership of shopping centers is highly fragmented. we face competition from other real estate investment trusts as well as from numerous small owners in the acquisition, ownership, and leasing of shopping centers. we compete to develop shopping centers with other real estate investment trusts engaged in development activities as well as with local, regional, and national real estate developers. if we cannot successfully compete in our targeted markets, our cash flow, and therefore distributions to stock and unit holders, may be adversely affected. 7 costs of environmental remediation could reduce our cash flow available for distribution to stock and unit holders. under various federal, state and local laws, an owner or manager of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on the property. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. the cost of any required remediation could exceed the value of the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner or the responsible party. the presence of, or the failure to properly remediate, hazardous or toxic substances may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease a contaminated property or to borrow using the property as collateral. any of these developments could reduce cash flow and our ability to make distributions to stock and unit holders. compliance with the americans with disabilities act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make unintended expenditures that adversely affect our cash flows. all of our properties are required to comply with the americans with disabilities act ( ada ). the ada has separate compliance requirements for public accommodations and commercial facilities, but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. compliance with the ada requirements could require removal of access barriers, and noncompliance could result in imposition of fines by the u.s. government or an award of damages to private litigants, or both. while the tenants to whom we lease properties are obligated by law to comply with the ada provisions, and typically under tenant leases are obligated to cover costs associated with compliance, if required changes involve greater expenditures than anticipated, or if the changes must be made on a more accelerated basis than anticipated, the ability of these tenants to cover costs could be adversely affected. in addition, we are required to operate the properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental entities and become applicable to the properties. we may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with these requirements, and these expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our financial obligations and make distributions to our stock and unit holders. if we do not maintain the security of tenant-related information, we could incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation. we have implemented an online payment system where we receive certain information about our tenants that depends upon secure transmissions of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. a compromise of our security systems that results in information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. in addition, a security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems and could result in a disruption of our operations. we rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions and manage our business. disruptions in both our primary and secondary (back-up) systems could harm our ability to run our business. although we have independent, redundant and physically separate primary and secondary computer systems, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical computer systems. our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our employees. if our computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. any material interruption in both of our computer systems and back-up systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. risk factors related to our co-investment partnerships and acquisition structure we do not have voting control over our joint venture investments, so we are unable to ensure that our objectives will be pursued. we have invested as a partner in a number of joint venture investments for the acquisition or development of properties. these investments involve risks not present in a wholly-owned project. we do not have voting control over the ventures. the other partner might (i) have interests or goals that are inconsistent with our interests or goals or (ii) otherwise impede our objectives. the other partner also might become insolvent or bankrupt. these factors could limit the return that we receive from such investments or cause our cash flows to be lower than our estimates. 8 the termination of our co-investment partnerships could adversely affect our cash flow, operating results, and our ability to make distributions to stock and unit holders. if co-investment partnerships owning a significant number of properties were dissolved for any reason, we would lose the asset and property management fees from these co-investment partnerships, which could adversely affect our operating results and our cash available for distribution to stock and unit holders. risk factors related to funding strategies and capital structure higher market capitalization rates for our properties could adversely impact our ability to sell properties and fund developments and acquisitions, and could dilute earnings. as part of our funding strategy, we sell operating properties that no longer meet our investment standards. these sales proceeds are used to fund the construction of new developments. an increase in market capitalization rates could cause a reduction in the value of centers identified for sale, which would have an adverse impact on the amount of cash generated. in order to meet the cash requirements of our development program, we may be required to sell more properties than initially planned, which could have a negative impact on our earnings. we depend on external sources of capital, which may not be available in the future on favorable terms or at all. to qualify as a reit, the parent company must, among other things, distribute to its stockholders each year at least 90% of its reit taxable income (excluding any net capital gains). because of these distribution requirements, we will likely not be able to fund all future capital needs, including capital for acquisitions or developments, with income from operations. we therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. our access to debt depends on our credit rating, the willingness of creditors to lend to us and conditions in the capital markets. in addition to finding creditors willing to lend to us, we are dependent upon our joint venture partners to contribute their share of any amount needed to repay or refinance existing debt when lenders reduce the amount of debt our joint ventures are eligible to refinance. in addition, our existing debt arrangements also impose covenants that limit our flexibility in obtaining other financing, such as a prohibition on negative pledge agreements. additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of stockholders' interests and additional debt financing may substantially increase our degree of leverage. without access to external sources of capital, we would be required to pay outstanding debt with our operating cash flows and proceeds from property sales. our operating cash flows may not be sufficient to pay our outstanding debt as it comes due and real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly at a return we believe is appropriate. if we are required to deleverage our business with operating cash flows and proceeds from property sales, we may be forced to reduce the amount of, or eliminate altogether, our distributions to stock and unit holders or refrain from making investments in our business. our debt financing may reduce distributions to stock and unit holders. our organizational documents do not limit the amount of debt that we may incur. in addition, we do not expect to generate sufficient funds from operations to make balloon principal payments on our debt when due. if we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, we might be forced (i) to dispose of properties, which might result in losses, or (ii) to obtain financing at unfavorable terms. either could reduce the cash flow available for distributions to stock and unit holders. if we cannot make required mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property securing the mortgage, causing the loss of cash flow from that property. 9 covenants in our debt agreements may restrict our operating activities and adversely affect our financial condition. our unsecured notes, unsecured term loan, and unsecured line of credit contain customary covenants, including compliance with financial ratios, such as ratio of total debt to gross asset value and fixed charge coverage ratio. fixed charge coverage ratio is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("ebitda") divided by the sum of interest expense and scheduled mortgage principal paid to our lenders plus dividends paid to our preferred stockholders. our debt arrangements also restrict our ability to enter into a transaction that would result in a change of control. these covenants may limit our operational flexibility and our acquisition activities. moreover, if we breach any of the covenants in our debt agreements, and did not cure the breach within the applicable cure period, our lenders could require us to repay the debt immediately, even in the absence of a payment default. many of our debt arrangements, including our unsecured notes, unsecured term loan, and unsecured line of credit are cross-defaulted, which means that the lenders under those debt arrangements can put us in default and require immediate repayment of their debt if we breach and fail to cure a default under certain of our other material debt obligations. as a result, any default under our debt covenants could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, our results of operations, our ability to meet our obligations, and the market value of our stock. increases in interest rates would cause our borrowing costs to rise and negatively impact our results of operations. while a significant amount of our outstanding debt has fixed interest rates, we do borrow funds at variable interest rates under our credit facilities. increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense on any variable rate debt, in addition, increases in interest rates will affect the terms under which we refinance our existing debt as it matures. this would reduce our future earnings and cash flows, which could adversely affect our ability to service our debt and meet our other obligations and also could reduce the amount we are able to distribute to our stock and unit holders. risk factors related to interest rates and the market price for our stock changes in economic and market conditions could adversely affect the parent company's stock price. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, many of which are out of our control, including: actual or anticipated variations in our operating results or dividends; changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates; publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry in general and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other reit's; the ability of our tenants to pay rent and meet their other obligations to us under current lease terms and our ability to re-lease space as leases expire; increases in market interest rates that drive purchasers of our stock to demand a higher dividend yield; changes in market valuations of similar companies; adverse market reaction to any additional debt we incur in the future; any future issuances of equity securities; additions or departures of key management personnel; strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; actions by institutional stockholders; speculation in the press or investment community; and general market and economic conditions. these factors may cause the market price of our common stock to decline, regardless of our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. it is impossible to ensure that the market price of our common stock will not fall in the future. a decrease in the market price of our common stock could reduce our ability to raise additional equity in the public markets. selling common stock at a decreased market price would have a dilutive impact on existing stockholders. 10 risk factors related to federal income tax laws if the parent company fails to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, it would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. we believe that we qualify for taxation as a reit for federal income tax purposes, and we plan to operate so that we can continue to meet the requirements for taxation as a reit. if we qualify as a reit, we generally will not be subject to federal income tax on our income that we distribute currently to our stockholders. many of the reit requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. the determination that we are a reit requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances, some of which may not be totally within our control and some of which involve questions of interpretation. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income must come from specific passive sources, like rent, that are itemized in the reit tax laws. there can be no assurance that the internal revenue service ( irs ) or a court would agree with the positions we have taken in interpreting the reit requirements. we are also required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income, excluding capital gains. the fact that we hold many of our assets through co-investment partnerships and their subsidiaries further complicates the application of the reit requirements. even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our reit status. furthermore, congress and the irs might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings, that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified as a reit. also, unless the irs granted us relief under certain statutory provisions, we would remain disqualified as a reit for four years following the year we first failed to qualify. if we failed to qualify as a reit (currently and/or with respect to any tax years for which the statute of limitations has not expired), we would have to pay significant income taxes, reducing cash available to pay dividends, which would likely have a significant adverse effect on the value of our securities. in addition, we would no longer be required to pay any dividends to stockholders. although we believe that we qualify as a reit, we cannot assure you that we will continue to qualify or remain qualified as a reit for tax purposes. even if we qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. for example, if we have net income from prohibited transactions, that income will be subject to a 100% tax. in general, prohibited transactions include sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. the determination as to whether a particular sale is a prohibited transaction depends on the facts and circumstances related to that sale. while we have undertaken a significant number of asset sales in recent years, we do not believe that those sales should be considered prohibited transactions, but there can be no assurance that the irs would not contend otherwise. risk factors related to our ownership limitations and the florida business corporation act restrictions on the ownership of the parent company's capital stock to preserve our reit status could delay or prevent a change in control. ownership of more than 7% by value of our outstanding capital stock is prohibited, with certain exceptions, by our articles of incorporation, for the purpose of maintaining our qualification as a reit. this 7% limitation may discourage a change in control and may also (i) deter tender offers for our capital stock, which offers may be attractive to our stockholders, or (ii) limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their capital stock that might otherwise exist if an investor attempted to assemble a block in excess of 7% of our outstanding capital stock or to affect a change in control. the issuance of the parent company's capital stock could delay or prevent a change in control. our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 30,000,000 shares of preferred stock and 10,000,000 shares of special common stock and to establish the preferences and rights of any shares issued. the issuance of preferred stock or special common stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. the provisions of the florida business corporation act regarding control share acquisitions and affiliated transactions could also deter potential acquisitions by preventing the acquiring party from voting the common stock it acquires or consummating a merger or other extraordinary corporate transaction without the approval of our disinterested stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to two significant components of interest rate risk: we have a $800.0 million line commitment and a $100.0 million term loan commitment, as further described in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. our line commitment has a variable interest rate that is based upon a annual rate of libor plus 117.5 basis points and our term loan has a variable interest rate of libor plus 145 basis points . libor rates charged on our line commitment and our term loan (collectively our "unsecured credit facilities") change monthly. the spread on the unsecured credit facilities is dependent upon maintaining specific credit ratings. if our credit ratings are downgraded, the spread on the unsecured credit facilities would increase, resulting in higher interest costs. we are also exposed to changes in interest rates when we refinance our existing long-term fixed rate debt. the objective of our interest rate risk management program is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. to achieve these objectives, we borrow primarily at fixed interest rates and may enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps, or treasury locks in order to mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument. we do not enter into derivative or interest rate transactions for speculative purposes. our interest rate swaps are structured solely for the purpose of interest rate protection. we have $181.6 million of fixed rate debt maturing in 2013 and 2014 that has a weighted average fixed interest rate of 5.22%, which includes $150.0 million of unsecured long-term debt that matures in april 2014 . we also have $350.0 million of unsecured long-term debt that matures in 2015. in order to mitigate the risk of interest rates rising before we obtain new unsecured borrowings in 2014 and 2015, we entered into five forward-starting interest rate swaps during december 2012, for 56 the same ten year periods we expect for our future borrowings. these swaps total $300.0 million of notional value, with weighted average fixed ten year swap rates of 2.09% for those starting in 2014 and 2.48% for those starting in 2015, as discussed in note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. we continuously monitor the capital markets and evaluate our ability to issue new debt to repay maturing debt or fund our commitments. based upon the current capital markets, our current credit ratings, our current capacity under our line and term loan, and the number of high quality, unencumbered properties that we own which could collateralize borrowings, we expect that we will be able to successfully issue new secured or unsecured debt to fund these debt obligations. our interest rate risk is monitored using a variety of techniques. the table below presents the principal cash flows (in thousands, excluding interest expense), weighted average interest rates of remaining debt, and the fair value of total debt (in thousands) as of december 31, 2012 , by year of expected maturity to evaluate the expected cash flows and sensitivity to interest rate changes. although the average interest rate for variable rate debt is included in the table, those rates represent rates that existed at december 31, 2012 and are subject to change on a monthly basis. the table below incorporates only those exposures that exist as of december 31, 2012 and does not consider exposures or positions that could arise after that date. since firm commitments are not presented, the table has limited predictive value. as a result, our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to interest rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise during the period, our hedging strategies at that time, and actual interest rates. 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 thereafter total fair value fixed rate debt $ 23,987 172,545 418,181 19,648 488,960 632,762 1,756,083 1,997,561 average interest rate for all fixed rate debt (1) 5.67 % 5.74 % 5.89 % 5.89 % 5.89 % 5.89 % variable rate libor debt $ 204 11,837 170,000 182,041 182,390 average interest rate for all variable rate debt (1) 1.71 % 1.61 % 1.61 % (1) average interest rates at the end of each year presented. 57risk factors below. the following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto of regency centers corporation and regency centers, l.p. appearing elsewhere herein. we do not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to such forward-looking statements to reflect events or uncertainties after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of uncertain events. part i item 1. business regency centers corporation began its operations as a reit in 1993 and is the managing general partner of regency centers, l.p. we endeavor to be a preeminent, best-in-class grocery-anchored shopping center company, distinguished by total shareholder return and per share growth in core funds from operations ("core ffo") and net asset value ("nav") that positions regency as a leader among its peers. we work to achieve these goals through: reliable growth in net operating income ("noi") from a high-quality, growing portfolio of thriving, neighborhood and community shopping centers; disciplined value-add development and redevelopment activities profitably creating and enhancing high-quality shopping centers; a conservative balance sheet and track record of cost effectively accessing capital to withstand market volatility and to efficiently fund investments; and, an engaged and talented team of people guided by our culture. all of our operating, investing, and financing activities are performed through the operating partnership, its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and through its co-investment partnerships. the parent company currently owns approximately 99.8% of the outstanding common partnership units of the operating partnership. as of december 31, 2013 , we directly owned 202 shopping centers (the consolidated properties ) located in 23 states representing 22.5 million square feet of gross leasable area ( gla ). through co-investment partnerships, we own partial ownership interests in 126 shopping centers (the unconsolidated properties ) located in 23 states and the district of columbia representing 15.5 million square feet of gla. we earn revenues and generate cash flow by leasing space in our shopping centers to grocery stores, major retail anchors, restaurants, side-shop retailers, and service providers, as well as ground leasing or selling building pads ("out-parcels") to these same types of tenants. we experience growth in revenues by increasing occupancy and rental rates in our existing shopping centers and by acquiring and developing new shopping centers. as of december 31, 2013 , our consolidated properties were 94.5% leased, as compared to 94.1% as of december 31, 2012 . we grow our shopping center portfolio through acquisitions of operating centers and new shopping center development. we will continue to use our development capabilities, market presence, and anchor relationships to invest in value-added new developments and redevelopments of existing centers. development is customer driven, meaning we generally have an executed lease from the anchor before we start construction. development serves the growth needs of our anchors and retailers, resulting in high quality shopping centers with long-term anchor leases that produce attractive returns on our invested capital. this development process typically requires two to three years once construction has commenced, but can vary subject to the size and complexity of the project. we fund our acquisition and development activity from various capital sources including operating cash flows, property sales, equity offerings, and new debt. co-investment partnerships provide us with an additional capital source for shopping center acquisitions, developments, and redevelopments, as well as the opportunity to earn fees for asset management, property management, and other investing and financing services. as an asset manager, we are engaged by our partners to apply similar operating, investment, and capital strategies to the portfolios owned by the co-investment partnerships as those applied to the portfolio that we wholly-own. 1 we recognize the importance of continually improving the environmental sustainability performance of our real estate assets. to date we have received leed (leadership in energy and environmental design) certifications by the u.s. green building council at seven shopping centers and have leed certification targeted at six additional development properties in-process or recently completed. we also continue to implement best practices in our operating portfolio to reduce our power and water consumption, in addition to other sustainability initiatives. we believe that the design, construction and operation of environmentally efficient shopping centers will contribute to our key strategic goals. competition we are among the largest owners of shopping centers in the nation based on revenues, number of properties, gla, and market capitalization. there are numerous companies and individuals engaged in the ownership, development, acquisition, and operation of shopping centers that compete with us in our targeted markets, including grocery store chains that also anchor some of our shopping centers. this results in competition for attracting anchor tenants, as well as the acquisition of existing shopping centers and new development sites. we believe that our competitive advantages are driven by: our locations within our market areas; the design and high quality of our shopping centers; the strong demographics surrounding our shopping centers; our relationships with our anchor tenants and our side-shop and out-parcel retailers; our practice of maintaining and renovating our shopping centers; and, our ability to source and develop new shopping centers. employees our headquarters are located at one independent drive, suite 114, jacksonville, florida. we presently maintain 17 market offices nationwide, where we conduct management, leasing, construction, and investment activities. as of december 31, 2013 , we had 363 employees and we believe that our relations with our employees are good. compliance with governmental regulations under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, we may be liable for the cost to remove or remediate certain hazardous or toxic substances at our shopping centers. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. the cost of required remediation and the owner's liability for remediation could exceed the value of the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner. the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or borrow using the property as collateral. while we have a number of properties that could require or are currently undergoing varying levels of environmental remediation, known environmental remediation is not currently expected to have a material financial impact on us due to existing accrued liabilities for remediation, insurance programs designed to mitigate the cost of remediation, and various state-regulated programs that shift the responsibility and cost to the state. executive officers our executive officers are appointed each year by our board of directors. each of our executive officers has been employed by us in the position indicated in the list or positions indicated in the pertinent notes below. each of our executive officers has been employed by us for more than five years. name age title executive officer in position shown since martin e. stein, jr. 61 chairman and chief executive officer 1993 brian m. smith 59 president and chief operating officer 2009 (1) lisa palmer 45 executive vice president and chief financial officer 2013 (2) dan m. chandler, iii 47 managing director - west 2009 (3) john s. delatour 54 managing director - central 1999 james d. thompson 58 managing director - east 1993 (1) brian m. smith is our president and chief operating officer. mr. smith served as managing director of investments for our pacific, mid-atlantic, and northeast divisions from march 1999 to september 2005, then served as managing director and chief investment officer from september 2005 to february 2009, until he was appointed president and chief operating officer. 2 (2) lisa palmer is our executive vice president and chief financial officer. ms. palmer served as senior manager of investment services in 1996 and assumed the role of vice president of capital markets in 1999. she served as senior vice president of capital markets from 2003 to 2012 until assuming the role of executive vice president and chief financial officer in january 2013. (3) dan m. chandler, iii, is our managing director - west. mr. chandler served as vice president of investment for regency from 1997 to 2002, senior vice president of investments from 2002 to 2006, and managing director from 2006 to 2007. from august 2007 to april 2009, he was a principal with chandler partners, a private commercial and residential real estate developer in southern california. during 2009, he was also affiliated with urban|one, a real estate development and management firm in los angeles, prior to returning to regency to serve in his current role of managing director - west. company website access and sec filings our website may be accessed at www.regencycenters.com . all of our filings with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) can be accessed free of charge through our website promptly after filing; however, in the event that the website is inaccessible, we will provide paper copies of our most recent annual report on form 10-k, the most recent quarterly report on form 10-q, current reports filed or furnished on form 8-k, and all related amendments, excluding exhibits, free of charge upon request. these filings are also accessible on the sec's website at www.sec.gov . general information our registrar and stock transfer agent is wells fargo bank, n.a. ( wells fargo shareowner services ), mendota heights, mn. we offer a dividend reinvestment plan ( drip ) that enables our stockholders to reinvest dividends automatically, as well as to make voluntary cash payments toward the purchase of additional shares. for more information, contact wells fargo shareowner services toll free at (800) 468-9716 or our shareholder relations department at (904) 598-7000. our independent registered public accounting firm is kpmg llp, jacksonville, florida. our legal counsel is foley &amp; lardner llp, jacksonville, florida. annual meeting our annual meeting will be held at the ponte vedra inn &amp; club, 200 ponte vedra blvd, ponte vedra beach, florida, at 11:00 a.m. on friday, may 2, 2014 . 3 item 1a. risk factors risk factors related to our industry and real estate investments a shift in retail shopping from brick and mortar stores to internet sales may have an adverse impact on our revenues and cash flow. many retailers operating brick and mortar stores have made internet sales a vital piece of their business. although many of the retailers in our shopping centers either provide services or sell groceries, such that their customer base does not have a tendency toward online shopping, the shift to internet sales may adversely impact our retail tenants' sales causing those retailers to adjust the size or number of retail locations in the future. this shift could adversely impact our occupancy and rental rates, which would impact our revenues and cash flows. downturns in the retail industry likely will have a direct adverse impact on our revenues and cash flow. our properties consist primarily of grocery-anchored shopping centers. our performance therefore is generally linked to economic conditions in the market for retail space. the market for retail space could be adversely affected by any of the following: weakness in the national, regional and local economies, which could adversely impact consumer spending and retail sales and in turn tenant demand for space and lead to increased store closings; adverse financial conditions for grocery and retail anchors; continued consolidation in the retail sector; excess amount of retail space in our markets; reduction in the demand by tenants to occupy our shopping centers as a result of reduced consumer demand for certain retail formats; the growth of super-centers and warehouse club retailers, such as those operated by wal-mart and costco, and their adverse effect on traditional grocery chains; the impact of increased energy costs on consumers and its consequential effect on the number of shopping visits to our centers; and consequences of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attack against, the united states. to the extent that any of these conditions occur, they are likely to impact market rents for retail space, occupancy in the operating portfolios, our ability to sell, acquire or develop properties, and our cash available for distributions to stock and unit holders. our revenues and cash flow could be adversely affected by poor economic or market conditions where our properties are geographically concentrated, which may impede our ability to generate sufficient income to pay expenses and maintain our properties. the economic conditions in markets in which our properties are concentrated greatly influence our financial performance. during the year ended december 31, 2013 , our properties in california , florida , and texas accounted for 31.2% , 11.4% , and 9.8% , respectively, of our net operating income from consolidated properties plus our pro-rata share from unconsolidated properties ("pro-rata basis"). our revenues and cash available to pay expenses, maintain our properties, and for distributions to stock and unit holders could be adversely affected by this geographic concentration if market conditions, such as supply of or demand for retail space, deteriorate in california , florida , or texas relative to other geographic areas. loss of revenues from significant tenants could reduce distributions to stock and unit holders. we derive significant revenues from anchor tenants such as kroger , publix , and safeway . as of december 31, 2013, they account for 4.7% , 4.3% , and 2.7% , respectively, of our total annualized base rent on a pro-rata basis, which is recognized in minimum rent and in equity in income of investment in real estate partnerships, for the year ended december 31, 2013 . distributions to stock and unit holders could be adversely affected by the loss of revenues in the event a significant tenant: becomes bankrupt or insolvent; experiences a downturn in its business; materially defaults on its leases; does not renew its leases as they expire; or renews at lower rental rates. 4 vacated anchor space, including space owned by the anchor, can reduce rental revenues generated by the shopping center because of the loss of the departed anchor tenant's customer drawing power. some anchors have the right to vacate and prevent re-tenanting by paying rent for the balance of the lease term. if significant tenants vacate a property, then other tenants may be entitled to terminate their leases at the property or pay reduced rent. our net income depends on the success and continued occupancy of our tenants. our net income could be adversely affected in the event of bankruptcy or insolvency of any of our anchors or a significant number of our non-anchor tenants within a shopping center, or if we fail to lease significant portions of our new developments. the adverse impact on our net income may be greater than the loss of rent from the resulting unoccupied space because co-tenancy clauses in select centers may allow other tenants to modify or terminate their rent or lease obligations. co-tenancy clauses have several variants: they may allow a tenant to postpone a store opening if certain other tenants fail to open their stores; they may allow a tenant to close its store prior to lease expiration if another tenant closes its store prior to lease expiration; or more commonly, they may allow a tenant to pay reduced levels of rent until a certain number of tenants open their stores within the same shopping center. a large percentage of our revenues are derived from smaller shop tenants and our net income could be adversely impacted if our smaller shop tenants are not successful. a large percentage of our revenues are derived from smaller shop tenants (those occupying less than 10,000 square feet). smaller shop tenants may be more vulnerable to negative economic conditions as they have more limited resources than larger tenants. such tenants continue to face increasing competition from non-store retailers and growing e-commerce. in addition, some of these retailers may seek to reduce their store sizes as they increasingly rely on alternative distribution channels, including internet sales, and adjust their square footage needs accordingly. the types of smaller shop tenants vary from retail shops to service providers. if we are unable to attract the right type or mix of smaller shop tenants into our centers, our net income could be adversely impacted. we may be unable to collect balances due from tenants in bankruptcy. although minimum rent is supported by long-term lease contracts, tenants who file bankruptcy have the legal right to reject any or all of their leases and close related stores. in the event that a tenant with a significant number of leases in our shopping centers files bankruptcy and rejects its leases, we could experience a significant reduction in our revenues and may not be able to collect all pre-petition amounts owed by that party. our real estate assets may be subject to impairment charges. our long-lived assets, primarily real estate held for investment, are carried at cost unless circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. we evaluate whether there are any indicators, including property operating performance and general market conditions, that the value of the real estate properties (including any related amortizable intangible assets or liabilities) may not be recoverable. through the evaluation, we compare the current carrying value of the asset to the estimated undiscounted cash flows that are directly associated with the use and ultimate disposition of the asset. our estimated cash flows are based on several key assumptions, including rental rates, costs of tenant improvements, leasing commissions, anticipated hold periods, and assumptions regarding the residual value upon disposition, including the exit capitalization rate. these key assumptions are subjective in nature and could differ materially from actual results. changes in our disposition strategy or changes in the marketplace may alter the hold period of an asset or asset group, which may result in an impairment loss and such loss could be material to the company's financial condition or operating performance. to the extent that the carrying value of the asset exceeds the estimated undiscounted cash flows, an impairment loss is recognized equal to the excess of carrying value over fair value. the fair value of real estate assets is subjective and is determined through comparable sales information and other market data if available, or through use of an income approach such as the direct capitalization method or the traditional discounted cash flow approach. such cash flow projections consider factors, including expected future operating income, trends and prospects, as well as the effects of demand, competition and other factors, and therefore are subject to management judgment. changes in those factors could impact the determination of fair value. in estimating the fair value of undeveloped land, we generally use market data and comparable sales information. these subjective assessments have a direct impact on our net income because recording an impairment charge results in an immediate negative adjustment to net income. there can be no assurance that we will not take additional charges in the future related to the impairment of our assets. any future impairment could have a material adverse effect on our net income in the period in which the charge is taken. 5 adverse global market and economic conditions may adversely affect us and could cause us to recognize additional impairment charges or otherwise harm our performance. we are unable to predict the timing, severity, and length of adverse market and economic conditions. adverse market and economic conditions may impede our ability to generate sufficient operating cash flow to pay expenses, maintain properties, pay distributions to our stock and unit holders, and refinance debt. during adverse periods, there may be significant uncertainty in the valuation of our properties and investments that could result in a substantial decrease in their value. no assurance can be given that we would be able to recover the current carrying amount of all of our properties and investments in the future. our failure to do so would require us to recognize additional impairment charges for the period in which we reached that conclusion, which could materially and adversely affect us and the market price of our common stock. our acquisition activities may not produce the returns that we expect. our investment strategy includes investing in high-quality shopping centers that are leased to market-dominant grocers, category-leading anchors, specialty retailers, or restaurants located in areas with high barriers to entry and above average household incomes and population densities. the acquisition of properties entails risks that include, but are not limited to, the following, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to meet our obligations: properties we acquire may fail to achieve the occupancy or rental rates we project, within the time frames we project, which may result in the properties' failure to achieve the returns we projected; our pre-acquisition evaluation of the physical condition of each new investment may not detect certain defects or identify necessary repairs until after the property is acquired, which could significantly increase our total acquisition costs or decrease cash flow from the property; our investigation of a property or building prior to our acquisition, and any representations we may receive from the seller of such building or property, may fail to reveal various liabilities, which could reduce the cash flow from the property or increase our acquisition costs; our estimate of the costs to improve, reposition or redevelop a property may prove to be too low, or the time we estimate to complete the improvement, repositioning or redevelopment may be too short, either of which could result in the property failing to achieve the returns we have projected, either temporarily or for a longer time; and we may not be able to integrate an acquisition into our existing operations successfully. unsuccessful development activities or a slowdown in development activities could have a direct impact on our revenues and our revenue growth. we actively pursue development activities as opportunities arise. development activities require various government and other approvals for entitlements and any delay in such approvals may significantly delay the development process. we may not recover our investment in development projects for which approvals are not received. we incur other risks associated with development activities, including: the ability to lease developments to full occupancy on a timely basis; the risk that occupancy rates and rents of a completed project will not be sufficient to make the project profitable; the risk that development costs of a project may exceed original estimates, possibly making the project unprofitable; delays in the development and construction process; the risk that we may abandon development opportunities and lose our investment in these developments; the risk that the size of our development pipeline will strain the organization's capacity to complete the developments within the targeted timelines and at the expected returns on invested capital; and the lack of cash flow during the construction period. if our developments are unsuccessful or we experience a slowdown in development activities, our revenue growth and/or net income may be adversely impacted. we may experience difficulty or delay in renewing leases or re-leasing space. we derive most of our revenue directly or indirectly from rent received from our tenants. we are subject to the risks that, upon expiration or termination of leases, leases for space in our properties may not be renewed, space may not be re- 6 leased, or the terms of renewal or re-lease, including the cost of required renovations or concessions to tenants, may be less favorable than current lease terms. as a result, our results of operations and our net income could be adversely impacted. we may be unable to sell properties when appropriate because real estate investments are illiquid. real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. our inability to respond promptly to unfavorable changes in the performance of our investments could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our obligations and make distributions to our stock and unit holders. geographic concentration of our properties makes our business vulnerable to natural disasters and severe weather conditions, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and operating results. a significant portion of our property gross leasable area is located in areas that are susceptible to earthquakes, tropical storms, hurricanes, tornadoes, wildfires, and other natural disasters. as of december 31, 2013 , approximately 23.4% , 15.9% , and 9.8% of our property gross leasable area, on a pro-rata basis, was located in california , florida , and texas , respectively. intense weather conditions during the last decade have caused our cost of property insurance to increase significantly. while much of this insurance cost is passed on to our tenants as reimbursable property costs, some tenants do not pay a pro rata share of these costs under their leases. these weather conditions also disrupt our business and the business of our tenants, which could affect the ability of some tenants to pay rent and may reduce the willingness of residents to remain in or move to the affected area. therefore, as a result of the geographic concentration of our properties, we face demonstrable risks, including higher costs, such as uninsured property losses and higher insurance premiums, and disruptions to our business and the businesses of our tenants. an uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the insurance policies on our properties could subject us to loss of capital or revenue on those properties. we carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, extended coverage, rental loss, and environmental insurance for our properties with policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties. we believe that the insurance carried on our properties is adequate and consistent with industry standards. there are, however, some types of losses, such as from hurricanes, terrorism, wars or earthquakes, for which the insurance levels carried may not be sufficient to fully cover catastrophic losses impacting multiple properties. in addition, tenants generally are required to indemnify and hold us harmless from liabilities resulting from injury to persons or damage to personal or real property, on or off the premises, due to activities conducted by tenants or their agents on the properties (including without limitation any environmental contamination), and at the tenant's expense, to obtain and keep in full force during the term of the lease, liability and property damage insurance policies. however, our tenants may not properly maintain their insurance policies or have the ability to pay the deductibles associated with such policies. should a loss occur that is uninsured or in an amount exceeding the combined aggregate limits for the policies noted above, or in the event of a loss that is subject to a substantial deductible under an insurance policy, we could lose all or part of our capital invested in, and anticipated revenue from, such properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to make distributions to stock and unit holders. loss of our key personnel could adversely affect the value of our parent company's stock price. we depend on the efforts of our key executive personnel. although we believe qualified replacements could be found for our key executives, the loss of their services could adversely affect our parent company's stock price. we face competition from numerous sources, including other real estate investment trusts and other real estate owners. the ownership of shopping centers is highly fragmented. we face competition from other real estate investment trusts and well capitalized institutional investors, as well as from numerous small owners in the acquisition, ownership, and leasing of shopping centers. we compete to develop shopping centers with other real estate investment trusts engaged in development activities as well as with local, regional, and national real estate developers. if we cannot successfully compete in our targeted markets, our cash flow, and therefore distributions to stock and unit holders, may be adversely affected. costs of environmental remediation could reduce our cash flow available for distribution to stock and unit holders. under various federal, state and local laws, an owner or manager of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on the property. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. the cost of any required remediation could exceed the value of the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner or the responsible party. the presence of, or the failure to properly remediate, hazardous or toxic substances may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease a 7 contaminated property or to borrow using the property as collateral. any of these developments could reduce cash flow and our ability to make distributions to stock and unit holders. compliance with the americans with disabilities act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make unintended expenditures that adversely affect our cash flows. all of our properties are required to comply with the americans with disabilities act ( ada ). the ada has separate compliance requirements for public accommodations and commercial facilities, but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. compliance with the ada requirements could require removal of access barriers, and noncompliance could result in imposition of fines by the u.s. government or an award of damages to private litigants, or both. while the tenants to whom we lease properties are obligated by law to comply with the ada provisions, and typically under tenant leases are obligated to cover costs associated with compliance, if required changes involve greater expenditures than anticipated, or if the changes must be made on a more accelerated basis than anticipated, the ability of these tenants to cover costs could be adversely affected. in addition, we are required to operate the properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental entities and become applicable to the properties. we may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with these requirements, and these expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our financial obligations and make distributions to our stock and unit holders. if we do not maintain the security of tenant-related information, we could incur substantial costs and become subject to litigation. we have implemented an online payment system where we receive certain information about our tenants that depends upon secure transmissions of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. a compromise of our security systems that results in information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. in addition, a security breach could require that we expend significant resources related to our information security systems and could result in a disruption of our operations. we rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions and manage our business. disruptions in both our primary and secondary (back-up) systems could harm our ability to run our business. although we have independent, redundant and physically separate primary and secondary computer systems, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical computer systems. our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our employees. if our computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. any material interruption in both of our computer systems and back-up systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. risk factors related to our co-investment partnerships and acquisition structure we do not have voting control over our joint venture investments, so we are unable to ensure that our objectives will be pursued. we have invested as a partner in a number of joint venture investments for the acquisition or development of properties. these investments involve risks not present in a wholly-owned project. we do not have voting control over the ventures, although we do have approval rights over major decisions. the other partner might (i) have interests or goals that are inconsistent with our interests or goals or (ii) otherwise impede our objectives. the other partner also might become insolvent or bankrupt. these factors could limit the return that we receive from such investments or cause our cash flows to be lower than our estimates. the termination of our co-investment partnerships could adversely affect our cash flow, operating results, and our ability to make distributions to stock and unit holders. if co-investment partnerships owning a significant number of properties were dissolved for any reason, we would lose the asset and property management fees from these co-investment partnerships, which could adversely affect our operating results and our cash available for distribution to stock and unit holders. 8 risk factors related to funding strategies and capital structure higher market capitalization rates for our properties could adversely impact our ability to sell properties and fund developments and acquisitions, and could dilute earnings. as part of our funding strategy, we sell operating properties that no longer meet our investment standards. these sales proceeds are used to fund the construction of new developments, redevelopments and acquisitions. an increase in market capitalization rates could cause a reduction in the value of centers identified for sale, which would have an adverse impact on the amount of cash generated. in order to meet the cash requirements of our development program, we may be required to sell more properties than initially planned, which could have a negative impact on our earnings. we depend on external sources of capital, which may not be available in the future on favorable terms or at all. to qualify as a reit, the parent company must, among other things, distribute to its stockholders each year at least 90% of its reit taxable income (excluding any net capital gains). because of these distribution requirements, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs, including capital for developments and repayment of future maturing debt, with income from operations. we therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. our access to debt depends on our credit rating, the willingness of creditors to lend to us and conditions in the capital markets. in addition to finding creditors willing to lend to us, we are dependent upon our joint venture partners to contribute their share of any amount needed to repay or refinance existing debt when lenders reduce the amount of debt our joint ventures are eligible to refinance. in addition, our existing debt arrangements also impose covenants that limit our flexibility in obtaining other financing, such as a prohibition on negative pledge agreements. additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of stockholders' interests and additional debt financing may substantially increase our degree of leverage. without access to external sources of capital, we would be required to pay outstanding debt with our operating cash flows and proceeds from property sales. our operating cash flows may not be sufficient to pay our outstanding debt as it comes due and real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly at a return we believe is appropriate. if we are required to deleverage our business with operating cash flows and proceeds from property sales, we may be forced to reduce the amount of, or eliminate altogether, our distributions to stock and unit holders or refrain from making investments in our business. our debt financing may adversely affect our business and financial condition. our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness will depend primarily on our future performance, which to a certain extent is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. in addition, we do not expect to generate sufficient funds from operations to make balloon principal payments on our debt when due. if we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, we might be forced (i) to dispose of properties, which might result in losses, or (ii) to obtain financing at unfavorable terms. either could reduce the cash flow available for distributions to stock and unit holders. if we cannot make required mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property securing the mortgage, causing the loss of cash flow from that property. covenants in our debt agreements may restrict our operating activities and adversely affect our financial condition. our unsecured notes, unsecured term loan, and unsecured line of credit contain customary covenants, including compliance with financial ratios, such as ratio of total debt to gross asset value and fixed charge coverage ratio. fixed charge coverage ratio is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("ebitda") divided by the sum of interest expense and scheduled mortgage principal paid to our lenders plus dividends paid to our preferred stockholders. our debt arrangements also restrict our ability to enter into a transaction that would result in a change of control. these covenants may limit our operational flexibility and our acquisition activities. moreover, if we breach any of the covenants in our debt agreements, and do not cure the breach within the applicable cure period, our lenders could require us to repay the debt immediately, even in the absence of a payment default. many of our debt arrangements, including our unsecured notes, unsecured term loan, and unsecured line of credit are cross-defaulted, which means that the lenders under those debt arrangements can put us in default and require immediate repayment of their debt if we breach and fail to cure a default under certain of our other material debt obligations. as a result, any default under our debt covenants could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, our results of operations, our ability to meet our obligations, and the market value of our stock. 9 increases in interest rates would cause our borrowing costs to rise and negatively impact our results of operations. although a significant amount of our outstanding debt has fixed interest rates, we do borrow funds at variable interest rates under our credit facilities. increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense on any variable rate debt. in addition, increases in interest rates will affect the terms under which we refinance our existing debt as it matures. this would reduce our future earnings and cash flows, which could adversely affect our ability to service our debt and meet our other obligations and also could reduce the amount we are able to distribute to our stock and unit holders. risk factors related to interest rates and the market price for our stock changes in economic and market conditions could adversely affect the parent company's stock price. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, many of which are out of our control, including: actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates; publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry in general and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other reit's; the ability of our tenants to pay rent and meet their other obligations to us under current lease terms and our ability to re-lease space as leases expire; increases in market interest rates that drive purchasers of our stock to demand a higher dividend yield; changes in market valuations of similar companies; adverse market reaction to any additional debt we incur in the future; any future issuances of equity securities; additions or departures of key management personnel; strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; actions by institutional stockholders; changes in our dividend payments; speculation in the press or investment community; and general market and economic conditions. these factors may cause the market price of our common stock to decline, regardless of our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. it is impossible to ensure that the market price of our common stock will not fall in the future. a decrease in the market price of our common stock could reduce our ability to raise additional equity in the public markets. selling common stock at a decreased market price would have a dilutive impact on existing stockholders. we cannot assure you we will continue to pay dividends at historical rates. our ability to continue to pay dividends to stock and unit holders at historical rates or to increase our dividend rate will depend on a number of factors, including, among others, the following: our financial condition and results of future operations; the terms of our loan covenants; and our ability to acquire, finance, develop or redevelop and lease additional properties at attractive rates. if we do not maintain or periodically increase the dividend on our common stock, it could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and other securities. changes in accounting standards may adversely impact our financial results. the financial accounting standards board ("fasb"), in conjunction with the sec, has several key projects on their agenda that could impact how we currently account for our material transactions, including lease accounting and other convergence projects with the international accounting standards board. at this time, we are unable to predict with certainty which, if any, proposals may be passed or what level of impact any such proposal could have on the presentation of our consolidated financial statements, our results of operations and our financial ratios required by our debt covenants. 10 risk factors related to federal income tax laws if the parent company fails to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, it would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. we believe that we qualify for taxation as a reit for federal income tax purposes, and we plan to operate so that we can continue to meet the requirements for taxation as a reit. if we continue to qualify as a reit, we generally will not be subject to federal income tax on our income that we distribute to our stockholders. many reit requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. the determination that we are a reit requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances, some of which may not be totally within our control and some of which involve questions of interpretation. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income must come from specific passive sources, like rent, that are itemized in the reit tax laws. there can be no assurance that the internal revenue service ( irs ) or a court would agree with the positions we have taken in interpreting the reit requirements. we are also required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income, excluding capital gains. the fact that we hold many of our assets through co-investment partnerships and their subsidiaries further complicates the application of the reit requirements. furthermore, congress and the irs might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings, that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified as a reit. also, unless the irs granted us relief under certain statutory provisions, we would remain disqualified as a reit for four years following the year we first failed to qualify. if we failed to qualify as a reit (currently and/or with respect to any tax years for which the statute of limitations has not expired), we would have to pay significant income taxes, reducing cash available to pay dividends, which would likely have a significant adverse effect on the value of our securities. in addition, we would no longer be required to pay any dividends to stockholders. although we believe that we qualify as a reit, we cannot assure you that we will continue to qualify or remain qualified as a reit for tax purposes. even if we qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. for example, if we have net income from prohibited transactions, that income will be subject to a 100% tax. in general, prohibited transactions include sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. the determination as to whether a particular sale is a prohibited transaction depends on the facts and circumstances related to that sale. while we have undertaken a significant number of asset sales in recent years, we do not believe that those sales should be considered prohibited transactions, but there can be no assurance that the irs would not contend otherwise. dividends paid by reits generally do not qualify for reduced tax rates. in general, the maximum u.s. federal income tax rate for qualified dividends paid by regular c corporations to u.s. shareholders that are individuals, trusts and estates after december 31, 2012 is 20% and a new medicare tax of 3.8% may also apply if income is greater than certain specified amounts. subject to limited exceptions, dividends paid by reits (other than distributions designated as capital gain dividends or returns of capital) are not eligible for these reduced rates and are taxable at ordinary income tax rates. the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in reits to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-reit corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of reits, including the shares of our capital stock. foreign stockholders may be subject to u.s. federal income tax on gain recognized on a disposition of our common stock if we do not qualify as a "domestically controlled" reit. a foreign person disposing of a u.s. real property interest, including shares of a u.s. corporation whose assets consist principally of u.s. real property interests is generally subject to u.s. federal income tax on any gain recognized on the disposition. this tax does not apply, however, to the disposition of stock in a reit if the reit is "domestically controlled." in general, we will be a domestically controlled reit if at all times during the five-year period ending on the applicable stockholder's disposition of our stock, less than 50% in value of our stock was held directly or indirectly by non-u.s. persons. if we were to fail to qualify as a domestically controlled reit, gain recognized by a foreign stockholder on a disposition of our common stock would be subject to u.s. federal income tax unless our common stock was traded on an established securities market and the foreign stockholder did not at any time during a specified testing period directly or indirectly own more than 5% of our outstanding common stock. 11 risk factors related to our ownership limitations and the florida business corporation act restrictions on the ownership of the parent company's capital stock to preserve our reit status could delay or prevent a change in control. ownership of more than 7% by value of our outstanding capital stock is prohibited, with certain exceptions, by our articles of incorporation, for the purpose of maintaining our qualification as a reit. this 7% limitation may discourage a change in control and may also (i) deter tender offers for our capital stock, which offers may be attractive to our stockholders, or (ii) limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their capital stock that might otherwise exist if an investor attempted to assemble a block in excess of 7% of our outstanding capital stock or to affect a change in control. the issuance of the parent company's capital stock could delay or prevent a change in control. our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 30,000,000 shares of preferred stock and 10,000,000 shares of special common stock and to establish the preferences and rights of any shares issued. the issuance of preferred stock or special common stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. the provisions of the florida business corporation act regarding control share acquisitions and affiliated transactions could also deter potential acquisitions by preventing the acquiring party from voting the common stock it acquires or consummating a merger or other extraordinary corporate transaction without the approval of our disinterested stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to two significant components of interest rate risk: we have an $800.0 million line commitment and a $75.0 million term loan commitment, as further described in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. our line commitment has a variable interest rate that is based upon an annual rate of libor plus 117.5 basis points and our term loan has a variable rate of libor plus 145 basis points . libor rates charged on our line and term loan (collectively our "unsecured credit facilities") change monthly. the spread on the unsecured credit facilities is dependent upon maintaining specific credit ratings. if our credit ratings are downgraded, the spread on the unsecured credit facilities would increase, resulting in higher interest costs. we are also exposed to changes in interest rates when we refinance our existing long-term fixed rate debt. the objective of our interest rate risk management program is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. to achieve these objectives, we borrow primarily at fixed interest rates and may enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps, or treasury locks in order to mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument. we do not enter into derivative or interest rate transactions for speculative purposes. our interest rate swaps are structured solely for the purpose of interest rate protection. we have $150.0 million and $350.0 million of fixed rate, unsecured debt maturing in april 2014 and august 2015 , respectively. as the economy improves, long term interest rates may continue to increase. in order to mitigate the risk of interest rate volatility, we entered into $395.0 million of forward starting interest rate swaps for new debt issues occurring through august 1, 2016. these interest rate swaps lock in the 10-year treasury rate and swap spread at a weighted average fixed rate of 2.45% . these rates are exclusive of our credit spread at the time of debt issuance. we continuously monitor the capital markets and evaluate our ability to issue new debt to repay maturing debt or fund our commitments. based upon the current capital markets, our current credit ratings, our current capacity under our unsecured credit facilities, and the number of high quality, unencumbered properties that we own which could collateralize borrowings, we expect that we will be able to successfully issue new secured or unsecured debt to fund these debt obligations. our interest rate risk is monitored using a variety of techniques. the table below presents the principal cash flows, weighted average interest rates of remaining debt, and the fair value of total debt as of december 31, 2013 (dollars in thousands). the table is presented by year of expected maturity to evaluate the expected cash flows and sensitivity to interest rate changes. although the average interest rate for variable rate debt is included in the table, those rates represent rates that existed as of december 31, 2013 and are subject to change on a monthly basis. further, the table below incorporates only those exposures that exist as of december 31, 2013 and does not consider exposures or positions that could arise after that date. since firm commitments are not presented, the table has limited predictive value. as a result, our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to interest rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise during the period, our hedging strategies at that time, and actual interest rates. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 thereafter total fair value fixed rate debt $ 163,632 418,182 27,148 489,396 61,103 579,909 1,739,370 1,899,404 average interest rate for all fixed rate debt (1) 5.72 % 5.87 % 5.87 % 5.82 % 5.77 % 5.77 % variable rate libor debt $ 9,000 75,000 297 410 27,392 112,099 112,483 average interest rate for all variable rate debt (1) 2.20 % 2.20 % 3.70 % 3.70 % 3.70 % 3.70 % (1) average interest rates at the end of each year presented. 61risk factors below. the following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto of regency centers corporation and regency centers, l.p. appearing elsewhere herein. we do not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to such forward-looking statements to reflect events or uncertainties after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of uncertain events. part i item 1. business regency centers began its operations as a publicly-traded reit in 1993, and currently owns direct or partial interests in 322 shopping centers, the majority of which are grocery-anchored community and neighborhood centers. our centers are located in the top markets of 23 states and the district of columbia, and contain 38.2 million square feet of gross leasable area, or 28.4 million square feet when including only our pro rata share of the 120 centers partially owned through co-investment partnerships. our mission is to be the preeminent grocery-anchored shopping center owner and developer through: first-rate performance of our exceptionally merchandised and located national portfolio; value-enhancing services of the best team of professionals in the business; creation of superior growth in shareholder value. our strategy is to: sustain average annual 3% net operating income ( noi ) growth from a high-quality portfolio of community and neighborhood shopping centers; develop new high quality shopping centers at attractive returns on investment from a disciplined development program; cost-effectively enhance our already strong balance sheet to reduce our cost of capital, provide financial flexibility and weather economic downturns; engage a talented and dedicated team that operates efficiently and is recognized as a leader in the real estate industry and sustainability initiatives. sustain average annual 3% noi growth from high-quality portfolio of community and neighborhood shopping centers: own and develop centers that are located at key corners in our nation's most attractive metro areas; target trade areas characterized by their strong demographics and consumer buying power, and draw shoppers to our centers with highly productive anchor tenants; attract the best national, regional and local retailers and restaurants; pursue initiatives that reinforce the underlying quality of our portfolio and maximize long-term growth such as fresh look, an operating philosophy that guides our merchandising and place-making programs; fortify future noi growth by rigorously reviewing our portfolio to identify low growth assets for disposition; opportunistically upgrade our portfolio by acquiring high quality shopping centers with superior upside in noi growth funded from the sale of low growth assets. develop new high quality shopping centers at attractive returns on investment from a disciplined development program: we have an existing presence in our key markets with in-house expertise and anchor relationships; long-term ownership of shopping center developments located in desirable infill markets; anchor developments with dominant, national and regional chains and high volume specialty grocers; limit size of program to manage total development exposure and risk; create additional value through redevelopment of existing centers to benefit the operating portfolio; fund development program primarily from the sale of low-growth assets in the existing portfolio. cost-effectively enhance an already strong balance sheet to reduce our cost of capital, provide financial flexibility and weather economic downturns: we have access to multiple sources of debt and equity through the capital markets and co-investment partnerships; 1 fund development and acquisitions from free cash flow, a disciplined match-funding strategy of selling low growth assets, and accessing favorably priced equity; further reduce leverage when appropriate through organic growth in earnings and accessing the capital markets prudently; rigorously manage our $800 million line of credit and maintain substantial uncommitted capacity; maintain a large pool of unencumbered assets and excellent relationships with mortgage lenders; maintain a well laddered debt maturity profile. engage a talented and dedicated team that operates efficiently and is recognized as a leader in the real estate industry and sustainability initiatives: we reflect our values by executing and successfully meeting our commitments to our people and our communities, a tradition we have embraced for over 50 years; foster a values-based culture, offering a comprehensive benefits package and an engaging workplace environment; believe in unwavering standards of honesty and integrity and build our reputation by maintaining the highest ethical principles. offer a challenging, safe and dynamic work environment and support the professional development and the personal life of each employee. encourage employees to achieve their personal health goals through a robust wellness program focused on education, awareness and prevention. contribute to the betterment of our communities by supporting philanthropic programs with employee contribution matching and paid time off to volunteer. sustainability we recognize the importance of operating in a sustainable manner and are committed to reducing our environmental impact, including energy and water use, greenhouse gas emissions, and waste. we are committed to transparency with regard to our sustainability performance, risks and opportunities, and will continue to increase disclosure using industry accepted reporting frameworks. we believe our commitment to sustainability supports the company in achieving key strategic objectives, leads to better risk management, enhances our relationships with key stakeholders, and is in the best interest of our shareholders. competition we are among the largest owners of shopping centers in the nation based on revenues, number of properties, gla, and market capitalization. there are numerous companies and individuals engaged in the ownership, development, acquisition, and operation of shopping centers that compete with us in our targeted markets, including grocery store chains that also anchor some of our shopping centers. this results in competition for attracting anchor tenants, as well as the acquisition of existing shopping centers and new development sites. we believe that our competitive advantages are driven by: our locations within our market areas; the design and high quality of our shopping centers; the strong demographics surrounding our shopping centers; our relationships with our anchor tenants and our side-shop and out-parcel retailers; our practice of maintaining and renovating our shopping centers; and, our ability to source and develop new shopping centers. employees our headquarters are located at one independent drive, suite 114, jacksonville, florida. we presently maintain 17 market offices nationwide, where we conduct management, leasing, construction, and investment activities. as of december 31, 2014 , we had 370 employees and we believe that our relations with our employees are good. compliance with governmental regulations under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, we may be liable for the cost to remove or remediate certain hazardous or toxic substances at our shopping centers. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. the cost of required remediation and the owner's liability for remediation could exceed the value of the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner. the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or borrow using the property as collateral. while we have a number of properties that could require 2 or are currently undergoing varying levels of environmental remediation, known environmental remediation is not currently expected to have a material financial impact on us due to insurance programs designed to mitigate the cost of remediation, various state-regulated programs that shift the responsibility and cost to the state, and existing accrued liabilities for remediation. executive officers our executive officers are appointed each year by our board of directors. each of our executive officers has been employed by us in the position indicated in the list or positions indicated in the pertinent notes below. each of our executive officers has been employed by us for more than five years. name age title executive officer in position shown since martin e. stein, jr. 62 chairman and chief executive officer 1993 brian m. smith 60 president and chief operating officer 2009 lisa palmer 47 executive vice president and chief financial officer 2013 (1) dan m. chandler, iii 48 managing director - west 2009 john s. delatour 55 managing director - central 1999 james d. thompson 59 managing director - east 1993 (1) ms. palmer served as senior manager of investment services in 1996 and assumed the role of vice president of capital markets in 1999. she served as senior vice president of capital markets from 2003 to 2012 until assuming the role of executive vice president and chief financial officer in january 2013. company website access and sec filings our website may be accessed at www.regencycenters.com . all of our filings with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) can be accessed free of charge through our website promptly after filing; however, in the event that the website is inaccessible, we will provide paper copies of our most recent annual report on form 10-k, the most recent quarterly report on form 10-q, current reports filed or furnished on form 8-k, and all related amendments, excluding exhibits, free of charge upon request. these filings are also accessible on the sec's website at www.sec.gov . general information our registrar and stock transfer agent is wells fargo bank, n.a. ( wells fargo shareowner services ), mendota heights, mn. we offer a dividend reinvestment plan ( drip ) that enables our stockholders to reinvest dividends automatically, as well as to make voluntary cash payments toward the purchase of additional shares. for more information, contact wells fargo shareowner services toll free at (800) 468-9716 or our shareholder relations department at (904) 598-7000. our independent registered public accounting firm is kpmg llp, jacksonville, florida. our legal counsel is foley &amp; lardner llp, jacksonville, florida. annual meeting our annual meeting will be held at the ponte vedra inn &amp; club, 200 ponte vedra blvd, ponte vedra beach, florida, at 8:30 a.m. on tuesday, may 12, 2015 . 3 item 1a. risk factors risk factors related to our industry and real estate investments a shift in retail shopping from brick and mortar stores to internet sales may have an adverse impact on our revenues and cash flow. many retailers operating brick and mortar stores have made internet sales a vital piece of their business. although many of the retailers in our shopping centers either provide services or sell groceries, such that their customer base does not have a tendency toward online shopping, the shift to internet sales may adversely impact our retail tenants' sales causing those retailers to adjust the size or number of retail locations in the future. this shift could adversely impact our occupancy and rental rates, which would impact our revenues and cash flows. downturns in the retail industry likely will have a direct adverse impact on our revenues and cash flow. our properties consist primarily of grocery-anchored shopping centers. our performance therefore is generally linked to economic conditions in the market for retail space. the market for retail space could be adversely affected by any of the following: weakness in the national, regional and local economies, which could adversely impact consumer spending and retail sales and in turn tenant demand for space and lead to increased store closings; adverse financial conditions for grocery and retail anchors; continued consolidation in the retail sector; excess amount of retail space in our markets; reduction in the demand by tenants to occupy our shopping centers as a result of reduced consumer demand for certain retail categories; the growth of super-centers and warehouse club retailers, such as those operated by wal-mart and costco, and their adverse effect on traditional grocery chains; the impact of changing energy costs on consumers and its consequential effect on retail spending; and consequences of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attack against, the united states. to the extent that any of these conditions occur, they are likely to impact market rents for retail space, occupancy in the operating portfolios, our ability to sell, acquire or develop properties, and our cash available for distributions to stock and unit holders. our revenues and cash flow could be adversely affected if economic or market conditions deteriorate where our properties are geographically concentrated, which may impede our ability to generate sufficient income to pay expenses and maintain our properties. the economic conditions in markets in which our properties are concentrated greatly influence our financial performance. during the year ended december 31, 2014 , our properties in california , florida , and texas accounted for 30.6% , 11.3% , and 10.0% , respectively, of our net operating income from consolidated properties plus our pro-rata share from unconsolidated properties ("pro-rata basis"). our revenues and cash available to pay expenses, maintain our properties, and for distributions to stock and unit holders could be adversely affected by this geographic concentration if market conditions, such as supply of or demand for retail space, deteriorate in california , florida , or texas relative to other geographic areas. our success depends on the success and continued presence of our anchor tenants. anchor tenants occupy large amounts of square footage, pay a significant portion of the total rents at a property and contribute to the success of other tenants by drawing significant numbers of customers to a property. we derive significant revenues from anchor tenants such as kroger , publix , and safeway , who accounted for 4.5% , 3.8% , and 2.3% , respectively, of our total annualized base rent on a pro-rata basis, for the year ended december 31, 2014 . our net income could be adversely affected by the loss of revenues in the event a significant tenant: becomes bankrupt or insolvent; experiences a downturn in its business; materially defaults on its leases; does not renew its leases as they expire; or renews at lower rental rates. 4 some anchors have the right to vacate and prevent re-tenanting by paying rent for the balance of the lease term. vacated anchor space, including space owned by the anchor, can reduce rental revenues generated by the shopping center because of the loss of the departed anchor tenant's customer drawing power. if a significant tenant vacates a property, co-tenancy clauses in select centers may allow other tenants to modify or terminate their rent or lease obligations. co-tenancy clauses have several variants: they may allow a tenant to postpone a store opening if certain other tenants fail to open their stores; they may allow a tenant to close its store prior to lease expiration if another tenant closes its store prior to lease expiration; or more commonly, they may allow a tenant to pay reduced levels of rent until a certain number of tenants open their stores within the same shopping center. a significant percentage of our revenues are derived from smaller shop tenants and our net income could be adversely impacted if our smaller shop tenants are not successful. a significant percentage of our revenues are derived from smaller shop tenants (those occupying less than 10,000 square feet). smaller shop tenants may be more vulnerable to negative economic conditions as they have more limited resources than larger tenants. such tenants continue to face increasing competition from non-store retailers and growing e-commerce. in addition, some of these retailers may seek to reduce their store sizes as they increasingly rely on alternative distribution channels, including internet sales, and adjust their square footage needs accordingly. the types of smaller shop tenants vary from retail shops to service providers. if we are unable to attract the right type or mix of smaller shop tenants into our centers, our net income could be adversely impacted. we may be unable to collect balances due from tenants in bankruptcy. although minimum rent is supported by long-term lease contracts, tenants who file bankruptcy have the legal right to reject any or all of their leases and close related stores. in the event that a tenant with a significant number of leases in our shopping centers files bankruptcy and rejects its leases, we could experience a significant reduction in our revenues and may not be able to collect all pre-petition amounts owed by that party. our real estate assets may be subject to impairment charges. our long-lived assets, primarily real estate held for investment, are carried at cost unless circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. we evaluate whether there are any indicators, including property operating performance and general market conditions, that the value of the real estate properties (including any related amortizable intangible assets or liabilities) may not be recoverable. through the evaluation, we compare the current carrying value of the asset to the estimated undiscounted cash flows that are directly associated with the use and ultimate disposition of the asset. our estimated cash flows are based on several key assumptions, including rental rates, costs of tenant improvements, leasing commissions, anticipated holding periods, and assumptions regarding the residual value upon disposition, including the exit capitalization rate. these key assumptions are subjective in nature and could differ materially from actual results. changes in our disposition strategy or changes in the marketplace may alter the holding period of an asset or asset group, which may result in an impairment loss and such loss could be material to the company's financial condition or operating performance. to the extent that the carrying value of the asset exceeds the estimated undiscounted cash flows, an impairment loss is recognized equal to the excess of carrying value over fair value. the fair value of real estate assets is subjective and is determined through comparable sales information and other market data if available, or through use of an income approach such as the direct capitalization method or the traditional discounted cash flow approach. such cash flow projections consider factors, including expected future operating income, trends and prospects, as well as the effects of demand, competition and other factors, and therefore are subject to management judgment. changes in those factors could impact the determination of fair value. in estimating the fair value of undeveloped land, we generally use market data and comparable sales information. these subjective assessments have a direct impact on our net income because recording an impairment charge results in an immediate negative adjustment to net income. there can be no assurance that we will not take additional charges in the future related to the impairment of our assets. any future impairment could have a material adverse effect on our net income in the period in which the charge is taken. adverse global market and economic conditions could cause us to recognize additional impairment charges or otherwise harm our performance. we are unable to predict the timing, severity, and length of adverse market and economic conditions. adverse market and economic conditions may impede our ability to generate sufficient operating cash flow to pay expenses, maintain properties, pay distributions to our stock and unit holders, and refinance debt. during adverse periods, there may be significant uncertainty in the valuation of our properties and investments that could result in a substantial decrease in their value. no 5 assurance can be given that we would be able to recover the current carrying amount of all of our properties and investments in the future. our failure to do so would require us to recognize additional impairment charges for the period in which we reached that conclusion, which could materially and adversely affect us and the market price of our common stock. unsuccessful development activities or a slowdown in development activities could have a direct impact on our revenues, revenue growth, and/or net income. we actively pursue development opportunities. development activities require various government and other approvals for entitlements and any delay in such approvals may significantly delay the development process. we may not recover our investment in development projects for which approvals are not received. we incur other risks associated with development activities, including: the risk that we may be unable to lease developments to full occupancy on a timely basis; the risk that occupancy rates and rents of a completed project will not be sufficient to make the project profitable; the risk that development costs of a project may exceed original estimates, possibly making the project unprofitable; the risk that delays in the development and construction process could increase costs; the risk that we may abandon development opportunities and lose our investment in such opportunities; the risk that the size of our development pipeline will strain the organization's capacity to complete the developments within the targeted timelines and at the expected returns on invested capital; changes in the level of future development and redevelopment activity could have an adverse impact on operating results by reducing the amount of capitalizable internal costs for development projects; and the lack of cash flow during the construction period. our acquisition activities may not produce the returns that we expect. our investment strategy includes investing in high-quality shopping centers that are leased to market-dominant grocers, category-leading anchors, specialty retailers, or restaurants located in areas with high barriers to entry and above average household incomes and population densities. the acquisition of properties and/or companies entails risks that include, but are not limited to, the following, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to meet our obligations: properties we acquire may fail to achieve the occupancy or rental rates we project, within the time frames we estimate, which may result in the properties' failure to achieve the returns we projected; our pre-acquisition evaluation of the physical condition of each new investment may not detect certain defects or identify necessary repairs until after the property is acquired, which could significantly increase our total acquisition costs or decrease cash flow from the property; our investigation of a company, property or building prior to our acquisition, and any representations we may receive from such seller, may fail to reveal various liabilities, which could reduce the cash flow from the acquisition or increase our acquisition costs; our estimate of the costs to improve, reposition or redevelop a property may prove to be too low, or the time we estimate to complete the improvement, repositioning or redevelopment may be too short, either of which could result in the property failing to achieve the returns we have projected, either temporarily or for a longer time; we may not recover our costs from an unsuccessful acquisition; our acquisition activities may distract our management and generate significant costs; and we may not be able to integrate an acquisition into our existing operations successfully. we may experience difficulty or delay in renewing leases or re-leasing space. we derive most of our revenue from rent received from our tenants. we are subject to the risks that, upon expiration or termination of leases, leases for space in our properties may not be renewed, space may not be re-leased, or the terms of renewal or re-lease, including the cost of required renovations or concessions to tenants, may be less favorable than current lease terms. as a result, our results of operations and our net income could be adversely impacted. 6 we may be unable to sell properties when appropriate because real estate investments are illiquid. real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. our inability to respond promptly to unfavorable changes in the performance of our investments could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our obligations and make distributions to our stock and unit holders. geographic concentration of our properties makes our business vulnerable to natural disasters and severe weather conditions, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and operating results. a significant portion of our property gross leasable area is located in areas that are susceptible to earthquakes, tropical storms, hurricanes, tornadoes, wildfires, and other natural disasters. as of december 31, 2014 , approximately 23.6% , 15.0% , and 10.5% of our property gross leasable area, on a pro-rata basis, was located in california , florida , and texas , respectively. intense weather conditions during the last decade have caused our cost of property insurance to increase significantly. we recognize that the frequency and / or intensity of extreme weather events may continue to increase due to climate change, and as a result, our exposure to these events could increase. these weather conditions also disrupt our business and the business of our tenants, which could affect the ability of some tenants to pay rent and may reduce the willingness of residents to remain in or move to the affected area. therefore, as a result of the geographic concentration of our properties, we face risks, including higher costs, such as uninsured property losses and higher insurance premiums, and disruptions to our business and the businesses of our tenants. should we decide in the future to expand into new markets, we may not be successful, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if opportunities arise, we may explore acquisitions of properties in new markets. each of the risks applicable to our ability to acquire and integrate successfully and operate properties in our current markets is also applicable in new markets. in addition, we may not possess the same level of familiarity with the dynamics and market conditions of the new markets we may enter, which could adversely affect the results of our expansion into those markets, and we may be unable to achieve our desired return on our investments in new markets. if we are unsuccessful in expanding into new markets, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. an uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the insurance coverage on our properties could subject us to loss of capital or revenue on those properties. we carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, extended coverage, rental loss, and environmental insurance for our properties with policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties. we believe that the insurance carried on our properties is adequate and consistent with industry standards. there are, however, some types of losses, such as losses from hurricanes, terrorism, wars or earthquakes, for which the insurance levels carried may not be sufficient to fully cover catastrophic losses impacting multiple properties. in addition, tenants generally are required to indemnify and hold us harmless from liabilities resulting from injury to persons or damage to personal or real property, on or off the premises, due to activities conducted by tenants or their agents on the properties (including without limitation any environmental contamination), and at the tenant's expense, to obtain and keep in full force during the term of the lease, liability and property damage insurance policies. however, our tenants may not properly maintain their insurance policies or have the ability to pay the deductibles associated with such policies. should a loss occur that is uninsured or in an amount exceeding the combined aggregate limits for the policies noted above, or in the event of a loss that is subject to a substantial deductible under an insurance policy, we could lose all or part of our capital invested in, and anticipated revenue from, such properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to make distributions to stock and unit holders. loss of our key personnel could adversely affect our business and operations. we depend on the efforts of our key executive personnel. although we believe qualified replacements could be found for our key executives, the loss of their services could adversely affect our business and operations. 7 we face competition from numerous sources, including other reits and other real estate owners. the ownership of shopping centers is highly fragmented. we face competition from other reits and well capitalized institutional investors, as well as from numerous small owners in the acquisition, ownership, and leasing of shopping centers. we also compete to develop shopping centers with other reits engaged in development activities as well as with local, regional, and national real estate developers. this competition may: reduce the number of properties available for acquisition or development; increase the cost of properties available for acquisition or development; hinder our ability to attract and retain tenants, leading to increased vacancy rates and/or reduced rents; and adversely affect our ability to minimize our expenses of operation. if we cannot successfully compete in our targeted markets, our cash flow, and therefore distributions to stock and unit holders, may be adversely affected. costs of environmental remediation could reduce our cash flow available for distribution to stock and unit holders. under various federal, state and local laws, an owner or manager of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on the property. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. the cost of any required remediation could exceed the value of the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner or the responsible party. the presence of, or the failure to properly remediate, hazardous or toxic substances may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease a contaminated property or to use the property as collateral for a loan. any of these developments could reduce cash flow and our ability to make distributions to stock and unit holders. compliance with the americans with disabilities act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make unintended expenditures. all of our properties are required to comply with the americans with disabilities act ( ada ), which generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. compliance with ada requirements could require removal of access barriers, and noncompliance could result in imposition of fines by the u.s. government or an award of damages to private litigants, or both. while the tenants to whom we lease properties are obligated by law to comply with the ada provisions, and typically under tenant leases are obligated to cover costs associated with compliance, if required changes involve greater expenditures than anticipated, or if the changes must be made on a more accelerated basis than anticipated, the ability of these tenants to cover costs could be adversely affected. in addition, we are required to operate the properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental entities and become applicable to the properties. we may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with these requirements, and these expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our financial obligations and make distributions to our stock and unit holders. if we do not maintain the security of tenant-related information, we could incur substantial costs and become subject to litigation. we have implemented an online payment system where we receive certain information about our tenants that depends upon secure transmissions of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. a compromise of our security systems that results in information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. in addition, a security breach could require us to expend significant resources related to our information security systems and could result in a disruption of our operations. we rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions and manage our business and disruptions in both our primary and secondary (back-up) systems could harm our ability to run our business. although we have independent, redundant and physically separate primary and secondary computer systems, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical computer systems. our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our employees. if our computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. any 8 material interruption in both of our computer systems and back-up systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. risk factors related to our co-investment partnerships and acquisition structure we do not have voting control over our joint venture investments, so we are unable to ensure that our objectives will be pursued. we have invested substantial capital as a partner in a number of joint venture investments for the acquisition or development of properties. these investments involve risks not present in a wholly-owned project as we do not have voting control over the ventures, although we do have approval rights over major decisions. the other partner may (i) have interests or goals that are inconsistent with our interests or goals or (ii) otherwise impede our objectives. the other partner also may become insolvent or bankrupt. these factors could limit the return that we receive from such investments or cause our cash flows to be lower than our estimates. the termination of our co-investment partnerships could adversely affect our cash flow, operating results, and our ability to make distributions to stock and unit holders. if co-investment partnerships owning a significant number of properties were dissolved for any reason, we would lose the asset and property management fees from these co-investment partnerships, which could adversely affect our operating results and our cash available for distribution to stock and unit holders. risk factors related to funding strategies and capital structure higher market capitalization rates for our properties could adversely impact our ability to sell properties and fund developments and acquisitions, and could dilute earnings. as part of our funding strategy, we sell operating properties that no longer meet our investment standards or those with a limited future growth profile. these sales proceeds are used to fund the construction of new developments, redevelopments and acquisitions. an increase in market capitalization rates could cause a reduction in the value of centers identified for sale, which would have an adverse impact on the amount of cash generated. in order to meet the cash requirements of our development program, we may be required to sell more properties than initially planned, which could have a negative impact on our earnings. we depend on external sources of capital, which may not be available in the future on favorable terms or at all. to qualify as a reit, the parent company must, among other things, distribute to its stockholders each year at least 90% of its reit taxable income (excluding any net capital gains). because of these distribution requirements, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs with income from operations. we therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. our access to debt depends on our credit rating, the willingness of creditors to lend to us and conditions in the capital markets. in addition to finding creditors willing to lend to us, we are dependent upon our joint venture partners to contribute their pro rata share of any amount needed to repay or refinance existing debt when lenders reduce the amount of debt our joint ventures are eligible to refinance. in addition, our existing debt arrangements also impose covenants that limit our flexibility in obtaining other financing, such as a prohibition on negative pledge agreements. additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of stockholders' interests and additional debt financing may substantially increase our degree of leverage. without access to external sources of capital, we would be required to pay outstanding debt with our operating cash flows and proceeds from property sales. our operating cash flows may not be sufficient to pay our outstanding debt as it comes due and real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly at a return we believe is appropriate. if we are required to deleverage our business with operating cash flows and proceeds from property sales, we may be forced to reduce the amount of, or eliminate altogether, our distributions to stock and unit holders or refrain from making investments in our business. 9 our debt financing may adversely affect our business and financial condition. our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our indebtedness will depend primarily on our future performance, which to a certain extent is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. in addition, we do not expect to generate sufficient funds from operations to make balloon principal payments on our debt when due. if we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, we may be forced (i) to dispose of properties, which might result in losses, or (ii) to obtain financing at unfavorable terms, either of which could reduce the cash flow available for distributions to stock and unit holders. if we cannot make required mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property securing the mortgage. covenants in our debt agreements may restrict our operating activities and adversely affect our financial condition. our unsecured notes, unsecured term loan, and unsecured line of credit contain customary covenants, including compliance with financial ratios, such as ratio of total debt to gross asset value and fixed charge coverage ratio. fixed charge coverage ratio is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("ebitda") divided by the sum of interest expense and scheduled mortgage principal paid to our lenders plus dividends paid to our preferred stockholders. our debt arrangements also restrict our ability to enter into a transaction that would result in a change of control. these covenants may limit our operational flexibility and our acquisition activities. moreover, if we breach any of the covenants in our debt agreements, and do not cure the breach within the applicable cure period, our lenders could require us to repay the debt immediately, even in the absence of a payment default. many of our debt arrangements, including our unsecured notes, unsecured term loan, and unsecured line of credit are cross-defaulted, which means that the lenders under those debt arrangements can put us in default and require immediate repayment of their debt if we breach and fail to cure a default under certain of our other material debt obligations. as a result, any default under our debt covenants could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, our results of operations, our ability to meet our obligations, and the market value of our stock. increases in interest rates would cause our borrowing costs to rise and negatively impact our results of operations. although a significant amount of our outstanding debt has fixed interest rates, we do borrow funds at variable interest rates under our credit facilities. increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense on any variable rate debt to the extent we have not hedged our exposure to changes in interest rates. in addition, increases in interest rates will affect the terms under which we refinance our existing debt as it matures, to the extent we have not hedge our exposure to changes in interest rates. this would reduce our future earnings and cash flows, which could adversely affect our ability to service our debt and meet our other obligations and also could reduce the amount we are able to distribute to our stock and unit holders. we may acquire properties or portfolios of properties through tax-deferred contribution transactions, which could result in stockholder dilution and limit our ability to sell such assets. we may acquire properties or portfolios of properties through tax deferred contribution transactions in exchange for partnership interests in our operating partnership, which may result in stockholder dilution. this acquisition structure may have the effect of, among other things, reducing the amount of tax depreciation we could deduct over the tax life of the acquired properties, and may require that we agree to protect the contributors' ability to defer recognition of taxable gain through restrictions on our ability to dispose of the acquired properties and/or the allocation of partnership debt to the contributors to maintain their tax bases. these restrictions could limit our ability to sell an asset at a time, or on terms, that would be favorable absent such restrictions. hedging activity may expose us to risks, including the risks that a counterparty will not perform and that the hedge will not yield the economic benefits we anticipate, which could adversely affect us. from time to time, we manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements that involve risk, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, and that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes. there can be no assurance that our hedging arrangements will qualify for hedge accounting or that our hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations. should we desire to terminate a hedging agreement, there could be significant costs and cash requirements involved to fulfill our obligations under the hedging agreement. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. 10 risk factors related to the market price for our debt and equity securities changes in economic and market conditions could adversely affect the market price of our securities. the market price of our debt and equity securities may fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, many of which are out of our control, including: actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates; publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry in general and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other reit's; the ability of our tenants to pay rent and meet their other obligations to us under current lease terms and our ability to re-lease space as leases expire; increases in market interest rates that drive purchasers of our stock to demand a higher dividend yield; changes in market valuations of similar companies; adverse market reaction to any additional debt we incur in the future; any future issuances of equity securities; additions or departures of key management personnel; strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; actions by institutional stockholders; changes in our dividend payments; speculation in the press or investment community; and general market and economic conditions. these factors may cause the market price of our securities to decline, regardless of our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. it is impossible to ensure that the market price of our securities, including our common stock, will not fall in the future. a decrease in the market price of our common stock could reduce our ability to raise additional equity in the public markets. selling common stock at a decreased market price would have a dilutive impact on existing stockholders. we cannot assure you we will continue to pay dividends at historical rates. our ability to continue to pay dividends at historical rates or to increase our dividend rate will depend on a number of factors, including, among others, the following: our financial condition and results of future operations; the terms of our loan covenants; and our ability to acquire, finance, develop or redevelop and lease additional properties at attractive rates. if we do not maintain or periodically increase the dividend on our common stock, it could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and other securities. changes in accounting standards may adversely impact our financial results. the financial accounting standards board ("fasb"), in conjunction with the sec, has several key projects on their agenda that could impact how we currently account for our material transactions, including lease accounting and other convergence projects with the international accounting standards board. at this time, we are unable to predict with certainty which, if any, proposals may be passed or what level of impact any such proposal could have on the presentation of our consolidated financial statements, our results of operations and our financial ratios required by our debt covenants. risk factors related to federal income tax laws if the parent company fails to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, it would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. we believe that the parent company qualifies for taxation as a reit for federal income tax purposes, and we plan to operate so that we can continue to meet the requirements for taxation as a reit. if the parent company continues to qualify as a reit, it generally will not be subject to federal income tax on income that we distribute to our stockholders. many reit requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. the determination that the parent company is a reit requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances, some of which may not be totally within our control and some of which 11 involve questions of interpretation. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income must come from specific passive sources, like rent, that are itemized in the reit tax laws. there can be no assurance that the internal revenue service ( irs ) or a court would agree with the positions we have taken in interpreting the reit requirements. we are also required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income, excluding capital gains. the fact that we hold many of our assets through co-investment partnerships and their subsidiaries further complicates the application of the reit requirements. furthermore, congress and the irs might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings, that make it more difficult, or impossible, for the parent company to remain qualified as a reit. also, unless the irs granted relief under certain statutory provisions, the parent company would remain disqualified as a reit for four years following the year it first failed to qualify. if the parent company failed to qualify as a reit (currently and/or with respect to any tax years for which the statute of limitations has not expired), we would have to pay significant income taxes, reducing cash available to pay dividends, which would likely have a significant adverse effect on the value of our securities. in addition, we would no longer be required to pay any dividends to stockholders. although we believe that the parent company qualifies as a reit, we cannot assure you that the parent company will continue to qualify or remain qualified as a reit for tax purposes. even if the parent company qualifies as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. for example, if we have net income from prohibited transactions, that income will be subject to a 100% tax. in general, prohibited transactions include sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. the determination as to whether a particular sale is a prohibited transaction depends on the facts and circumstances related to that sale. while we have undertaken a significant number of asset sales in recent years, we do not believe that those sales should be considered prohibited transactions, but there can be no assurance that the irs would not contend otherwise. dividends paid by reits generally do not qualify for reduced tax rates. subject to limited exceptions, dividends paid by reits (other than distributions designated as capital gain dividends or returns of capital) are not eligible for reduced rates for qualified dividends paid by "c" corporations and are taxable at ordinary income tax rates. the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in reits to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-reit corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of reits, including the shares of our capital stock. foreign stockholders may be subject to u.s. federal income tax on gain recognized on a disposition of our common stock if we do not qualify as a "domestically controlled" reit. a foreign person disposing of a u.s. real property interest, including shares of a u.s. corporation whose assets consist principally of u.s. real property interests is generally subject to u.s. federal income tax on any gain recognized on the disposition. this tax does not apply, however, to the disposition of stock in a reit if the reit is "domestically controlled." in general, we will be a domestically controlled reit if at all times during the five-year period ending on the applicable stockholder's disposition of our stock, less than 50% in value of our stock was held directly or indirectly by non-u.s. persons. if we were to fail to qualify as a domestically controlled reit, gain recognized by a foreign stockholder on a disposition of our common stock would be subject to u.s. federal income tax unless our common stock was traded on an established securities market and the foreign stockholder did not at any time during a specified testing period directly or indirectly own more than 5% of our outstanding common stock. complying with reit requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities. the reit provisions of the code limit our ability to hedge our liabilities. generally, income from a hedging transaction we enter into either to manage risk of interest rate changes with respect to borrowings incurred or to be incurred to acquire or carry real estate assets, or to manage the risk of currency fluctuations with respect to any item of income or gain (or any property which generates such income or gain) that constitutes qualifying income for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests applicable to reits, does not constitute gross income for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests, provided that we properly identify the hedging transaction pursuant to the applicable sections of the code and treasury regulations. to the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, or fail to make the proper tax identifications, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both gross income tests. as a result of these rules, we may need to limit our use of otherwise advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a taxable reit subsidiary, or trs. the use of a trs could increase the cost of our hedging activities (because our trs would be subject to tax on income or gain resulting from hedges entered into by it) or expose us to greater risks than we would otherwise want to bear. in addition, net losses in a trs will generally not provide any tax benefit except for being carried forward for use against future taxable income in the trs. 12 risk factors related to our ownership limitations and the florida business corporation act restrictions on the ownership of the parent company's capital stock to preserve its reit status could delay or prevent a change in control. ownership of more than 7% by value of our outstanding capital stock is prohibited, with certain exceptions, by the parent company's articles of incorporation, for the purpose of maintaining its qualification as a reit. this 7% limitation may discourage a change in control and may also (i) deter tender offers for our capital stock, which offers may be attractive to our stockholders, or (ii) limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their capital stock that might otherwise exist if an investor attempted to assemble a block in excess of 7% of our outstanding capital stock or to affect a change in control. the issuance of the parent company's capital stock could delay or prevent a change in control. the parent company's articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 30,000,000 shares of preferred stock and 10,000,000 shares of special common stock and to establish the preferences and rights of any shares issued. the issuance of preferred stock or special common stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. the provisions of the florida business corporation act regarding control share acquisitions and affiliated transactions could also deter potential acquisitions by preventing the acquiring party from voting the common stock it acquires or consummating a merger or other extraordinary corporate transaction without the approval of our disinterested stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to two significant components of interest rate risk: we have an $800.0 million line commitment and a $165.0 million term loan commitment, as further described in note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. our line commitment has a variable interest rate that is based upon an annual rate of libor plus 117.5 basis points and our term loan has a variable rate of libor plus 115 basis points and both are subject to a fee on the undrawn balances. libor rates charged on our line and term loan (collectively our "unsecured credit facilities") change monthly. the spread on the unsecured credit facilities is dependent upon maintaining specific credit ratings. if our credit ratings are downgraded, the spread on the unsecured credit facilities would increase, resulting in higher interest costs. we are also exposed to changes in interest rates when we refinance our existing long-term fixed rate debt. the objective of our interest rate risk management program is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. to achieve these objectives, we borrow primarily at fixed interest rates and may enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps, or treasury locks in order to mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument. we do not enter into derivative or interest rate transactions for speculative purposes. our interest rate swaps are structured solely for the purpose of interest rate protection. we have $350.0 million and $400.0 million of fixed rate, unsecured debt maturing in august 2015 and june 2017 , respectively. in order to mitigate the risk of interest rate volatility, we previously entered into $220.0 million of forward starting interest rate swaps to partially hedge the new debt expected to be issued in 2015 and an additional $220.0 million of forward starting interest rate swaps to partially hedge the new debt expected to be issued in 2017 . these interest rate swaps lock in the 10-year treasury rate and swap spread at a weighted average fixed rate of 2.67% 67 and 3.48%, respectively. a current market based credit spread applicable to regency will be added to the locked in fixed rate at time of issuance that will determine the final bond yield. we continuously monitor the capital markets and evaluate our ability to issue new debt to repay maturing debt or fund our commitments. based upon the current capital markets, our current credit ratings, our current capacity under our unsecured credit facilities, and the number of high quality, unencumbered properties that we own which could collateralize borrowings, we expect that we will be able to successfully issue new secured or unsecured debt to fund these debt obligations. our interest rate risk is monitored using a variety of techniques. the table below presents the principal cash flows, weighted average interest rates of remaining debt, and the fair value of total debt as of december 31, 2014 (dollars in thousands). the table is presented by year of expected maturity to evaluate the expected cash flows and sensitivity to interest rate changes. although the average interest rate for variable rate debt is included in the table, those rates represent rates that existed as of december 31, 2014 and are subject to change on a monthly basis. further, the table below incorporates only those exposures that exist as of december 31, 2014 and does not consider exposures or positions that could arise after that date. since firm commitments are not presented, the table has limited predictive value. as a result, our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to interest rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise during the period, our hedging strategies at that time, and actual interest rates. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 thereafter total fair value fixed rate debt $ 432,483 47,577 521,309 61,400 109,012 739,986 1,911,767 2,086,000 average interest rate for all fixed rate debt (1) 5.48 % 5.47 % 5.20 % 5.13 % 4.75 % 4.75 % variable rate libor debt $ 297 410 75,431 28,700 104,838 105,000 average interest rate for all variable rate debt (1) 1.41 % 1.41 % 1.40 % 1.40 % 1.66 % 1.66 % (1) average interest rates at the end of each year presented. 68risk factors below. the following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto of regency centers corporation and regency centers, l.p. appearing elsewhere herein. we do not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to such forward-looking statements to reflect events or uncertainties after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of uncertain events. part i item 1. business regency centers began its operations as a publicly-traded reit in 1993, and currently owns direct or partial interests in 318 shopping centers, the majority of which are grocery-anchored community and neighborhood centers. our centers are located in the top markets of 27 states and the district of columbia, and contain 38.0 million square feet of gross leasable area ("gla"). our pro-rata share of this gla is 28.4 million square feet. all of our operating, investing, and financing activities are performed through the operating partnership, its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and through its co-investment partnerships. our mission is to be the best-in-class grocery-anchored shopping center owner and developer through: first-rate performance of our exceptionally merchandised and located national portfolio; value-enhancing services of the best team of professionals in the business; and creation of superior growth in shareholder value. our strategy is to: sustain average annual 3% net operating income ( noi ) growth from a high-quality, growing portfolio of thriving community and neighborhood shopping centers; develop new, and redevelop existing, high quality shopping centers at attractive returns on investment from a disciplined development program; cost-effectively enhance our already strong balance sheet to reduce our cost of capital, provide financial flexibility and weather economic downturns; and engage a talented and dedicated team that operates efficiently and is recognized as a leader in the real estate industry with respect to development and operating capabilities, customer relationships, operating and technology systems, and environmental sustainability. we expect to execute our strategy as follows: sustain average annual 3% noi growth from a high-quality, growing portfolio of thriving community and neighborhood shopping centers: own and develop centers that are located at key corners in our nation's most attractive metro areas; target trade areas characterized by their strong demographics and consumer buying power, and draw shoppers to our centers with highly productive anchor tenants; attract the best national, regional and local retailers and restaurants; pursue initiatives that reinforce the underlying quality of our portfolio and maximize long-term growth such as fresh look , an operating philosophy that guides our merchandising and place-making programs; fortify future noi growth by rigorously reviewing our portfolio to identify low growth assets for disposition; and opportunistically upgrade our portfolio by acquiring high quality shopping centers with meaningful upside in noi growth funded from the sale of low growth assets. develop new, and redevelop existing, high quality shopping centers at attractive returns on investment from a disciplined development program: maintain and grow our existing presence in our key markets with in-house expertise and anchor relationships; develop shopping centers located in desirable infill markets for long-term ownership; anchor developments with dominant, national and regional chains and high volume specialty grocers; limit size of program to manage total development exposure and risk; create additional value through redevelopment of existing centers to benefit the operating portfolio; and 1 fund development program primarily from the sale of low-growth assets in the existing portfolio. cost-effectively enhance an already strong balance sheet to reduce our cost of capital, provide financial flexibility and weather economic downturns: prudently access our multiple sources of debt and equity through the capital markets and co-investment partnerships; fund development and acquisitions from free cash flow, a disciplined match-funding strategy of selling low growth assets, and accessing favorably priced equity; further reduce leverage when appropriate through organic growth in earnings and accessing the capital markets; rigorously manage our $800 million line of credit and maintain substantial uncommitted capacity; maintain a large pool of unencumbered assets and excellent relationships with mortgage lenders; and maintain a well laddered debt maturity profile. engage a talented and dedicated team that operates efficiently and is recognized as a leader in the real estate industry with respect to development and operating capabilities, customer relationships, operating and technology systems, and environmental sustainability: reflect our values by executing and successfully meeting our commitments to our people and our communities, a tradition we have embraced for over 50 years; foster a values-based culture, offering a comprehensive benefits package and an engaging workplace environment; uphold unwavering standards of honesty and integrity and build our reputation by maintaining the highest ethical principles; offer a challenging, safe and dynamic work environment and support the professional development and personal life of each employee; encourage employees to achieve their personal health goals through a robust wellness program focused on education, awareness and prevention; and contribute to the betterment of our communities by supporting philanthropic programs with employee contribution matching and paid volunteer time. environmental sustainability we recognize the importance of operating in a sustainable manner and are committed to reducing our environmental impact, including energy and water use, greenhouse gas emissions, and waste. we are committed to transparency with regard to our sustainability performance, risks and opportunities, and will continue to increase disclosure using industry accepted reporting frameworks. we believe our commitment to environmental sustainability supports the company in achieving key strategic objectives, leads to better risk management, enhances our relationships with key stakeholders, and is in the best interest of our shareholders. competition we are among the largest owners of shopping centers in the nation based on revenues, number of properties, gross leasable area ("gla"), and market capitalization. there are numerous companies and individuals engaged in the ownership, development, acquisition, and operation of shopping centers that compete with us in our targeted markets, including grocery store chains that also anchor some of our shopping centers. this results in competition for attracting anchor tenants, as well as the acquisition of existing shopping centers and new development sites. we believe that our competitive advantages are driven by: our locations within our market areas; the design and high quality of our shopping centers; the strong demographics surrounding our shopping centers; our relationships with our anchor tenants and our side-shop and out-parcel retailers; our practice of maintaining and renovating our shopping centers; and our ability to source and develop new shopping centers. employees our corporate headquarters are located at one independent drive, suite 114, jacksonville, florida. we presently maintain 18 market offices nationwide, where we conduct management, leasing, construction, and investment activities. we have 371 employees and we believe that our relations with our employees are good. 2 compliance with governmental regulations under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, we may be liable for the cost to remove or remediate certain hazardous or toxic substances at our shopping centers. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. the cost of required remediation and the owner's liability for remediation could exceed the value of the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner. the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or borrow using the property as collateral. although we have a number of properties that could require or are currently undergoing varying levels of environmental remediation, known environmental remediation is not currently expected to have a material financial impact on us due to insurance programs designed to mitigate the cost of remediation, various state-regulated programs that shift the responsibility and cost to the state, and existing accrued liabilities for remediation. executive officers our executive officers are appointed each year by our board of directors. each of our executive officers has been employed by us in the position indicated in the list or notes below for more than five years. name age title executive officer in position shown since martin e. stein, jr. 63 chairman and chief executive officer 1993 lisa palmer 48 president and chief financial officer 2016 (1) dan m. chandler, iii 49 executive vice president of development 2016 (2) james d. thompson 60 executive vice president of operations 2016 (3) (1) ms. palmer assumed the responsibilities of president, effective january 1, 2016 in addition to her responsibilities as chief financial officer, which she has held since january 2013. prior to that, ms. palmer served as senior vice president of capital markets since 2003 and has been with the company since 1996. (2) mr. chandler assumed the role of executive vice president of development on january 1, 2016 and previously served as our managing director - west since 2009 and has been with the company since 2009. (3) mr. thompson assumed the role of executive vice president of operations on january 1, 2016 and previously served as our managing director - east since our initial public offering in 1993. prior to that time, mr. thompson served as executive vice president of our predecessor real estate division beginning in 1981. company website access and sec filings our website may be accessed at www.regencycenters.com . all of our filings with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) can be accessed free of charge through our website promptly after filing; however, in the event that the website is inaccessible, we will provide paper copies of our most recent annual report on form 10-k, the most recent quarterly report on form 10-q, current reports filed or furnished on form 8-k, and all related amendments, excluding exhibits, free of charge upon request. these filings are also accessible on the sec's website at www.sec.gov . general information our registrar and stock transfer agent is broadridge corporate issuer solutions, inc. ( broadridge ), philadelphia, pa. we offer a dividend reinvestment plan ( drip ) that enables our stockholders to reinvest dividends automatically, as well as to make voluntary cash payments toward the purchase of additional shares. for more information, contact broadridge toll free at (855) 449-0975 or our shareholder relations department at (904) 598-7000. our independent registered public accounting firm is kpmg llp, jacksonville, florida. our legal counsel is foley &amp; lardner llp, jacksonville, florida. annual meeting our annual meeting will be held at the ponte vedra inn &amp; club, 200 ponte vedra blvd, ponte vedra beach, florida, at 8:30 a.m. on friday, april 29, 2016 . 3 defined terms the following terms, as defined, are commonly used by management and the investing public to understand and evaluate our operational results: net operating income ("noi") is calculated as total property revenues (minimum rent, percentage rents, and recoveries from tenants and other income) less direct property operating expenses (operating and maintenance and real estate taxes) from the properties owned by us, and excludes corporate-level income (including management, transaction, and other fees), for the entirety of the periods presented. same property information is provided for operating properties that were owned and operated for the entirety of both calendar year periods being compared and excludes non-same properties and properties in development. a non-same property is a property acquired, sold, or development property completed during either calendar year period being compared. property in development is a property owned and intended to be developed, including partially operating properties acquired specifically for redevelopment and excluding land held for future development. development completion is a project in development that is deemed complete upon the earliest of: (i) 90% of total estimated net development costs have been incurred and percent leased equals or exceeds 95%, or (ii) percent leased equals or exceeds 90% and the project features at least one year of anchor operations, or (iii) the project features at least two years of anchor operations, or (iv) three years have passed since the start of construction. once deemed complete, the property is termed an operating property. same property noi includes noi for same properties, but excludes straight-line rental income, net of reserves, above and below market rent amortization, banking charges, and other fees. same property noi is a key measure used by management in evaluating the performance of our properties. the company also provides disclosure of same property noi excluding termination fees, which excludes both termination fee income and expenses. pro-rata information includes 100% of our consolidated properties plus our ownership interest in our unconsolidated real estate investment partnerships. nareit funds from operations ("nareit ffo") is a commonly used measure of reit performance, which the national association of real estate investment trusts ("nareit") defines as net income, computed in accordance with gaap, excluding gains and losses from sales of depreciable property, net of tax, excluding operating real estate impairments, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. we compute nareit ffo for all periods presented in accordance with nareit's definition. many companies use different depreciable lives and methods, and real estate values historically fluctuate with market conditions. since nareit ffo excludes depreciation and amortization and gains and losses from depreciable property dispositions, and impairments, it provides a performance measure that, when compared year over year, reflects the impact on operations from trends in occupancy rates, rental rates, operating costs, acquisition and development activities, and financing costs. this provides a perspective of our financial performance not immediately apparent from net income determined in accordance with gaap. thus, nareit ffo is a supplemental non-gaap financial measure of our operating performance, which does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with gaap and therefore, should not be considered an alternative for cash flow as a measure of liquidity. core ffo is an additional performance measure used by regency as the computation of nareit ffo includes certain non-cash and non-comparable items that affect the company's period-over-period performance. core ffo excludes from nareit ffo, but is not limited to: (a) transaction related gains, income or expense; (b) impairments on land; (c) gains or losses from the early extinguishment of debt; and (d) other non-core amounts as they occur. the company provides a reconciliation of nareit ffo to core ffo. 4 item 1a. risk factors risk factors related to our industry and real estate investments a shift in retail shopping from brick and mortar stores to internet sales may have an adverse impact on our revenues and cash flow. many retailers operating brick and mortar stores have made internet sales a vital piece of their business. although many of the retailers in our shopping centers either provide services or sell groceries, such that their customer base does not have a tendency toward online shopping, the shift to internet sales may adversely impact our retail tenants' sales causing those retailers to adjust the size or number of retail locations in the future. this shift could adversely impact our occupancy and rental rates, which would impact our revenues and cash flows. downturns in the retail industry likely will have a direct adverse impact on our revenues and cash flow. our properties consist primarily of grocery-anchored shopping centers. our performance therefore is generally linked to economic conditions in the market for retail space. the market for retail space could be adversely affected by any of the following: weakness in the national, regional and local economies, which could adversely impact consumer spending and retail sales and in turn tenant demand for space and lead to increased store closings; adverse financial conditions for grocery and retail anchors; continued consolidation in the retail sector; excess amount of retail space in our markets; reduction in the demand by tenants to occupy our shopping centers as a result of reduced consumer demand for certain retail categories; the growth of super-centers and warehouse club retailers, such as those operated by wal-mart and costco, and their adverse effect on traditional grocery chains; the impact of changing energy costs on consumers and its consequential effect on retail spending; and consequences of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attack against, the united states. to the extent that any of these conditions occur, they are likely to impact market rents for retail space, occupancy in the operating portfolios, our ability to sell, acquire or develop properties, and our cash available for distributions to stock and unit holders. our revenues and cash flow could be adversely affected if economic or market conditions deteriorate where our properties are geographically concentrated, which may impede our ability to generate sufficient income to pay expenses and maintain our properties. the economic conditions in markets in which our properties are concentrated greatly influence our financial performance. during the year ended december 31, 2015 , our properties in california , florida , and texas accounted for 30.4% , 12.1% , and 10.3% , respectively, of our net operating income from consolidated properties plus our pro-rata share from unconsolidated properties ("pro-rata basis"). our revenues and cash available to pay expenses, maintain our properties, and for distributions to stock and unit holders could be adversely affected by this geographic concentration if market conditions, such as supply of or demand for retail space, deteriorate in california , florida , or texas relative to other geographic areas. our success depends on the success and continued presence of our anchor tenants. anchor tenants (those occupying 10,000 square feet or more) occupy large amounts of square footage, pay a significant portion of the total rents at a property and contribute to the success of other tenants by drawing significant numbers of customers to a property. we derive significant revenues from anchor tenants such as kroger , publix , and albertsons/safeway , who accounted for 4.7% , 3.7% , and 2.9% , respectively, of our total annualized base rent on a pro-rata basis, for the year ended december 31, 2015 . our net income could be adversely affected by the loss of revenues in the event a significant tenant: becomes bankrupt or insolvent; experiences a downturn in its business; materially defaults on its leases; does not renew its leases as they expire; or renews at lower rental rates. 5 some anchors have the right to vacate and prevent re-tenanting by paying rent for the balance of the lease term. vacated anchor space, including space owned by the anchor, can reduce rental revenues generated by the shopping center because of the loss of the departed anchor tenant's customer drawing power. if a significant tenant vacates a property, co-tenancy clauses in select centers may allow other tenants to modify or terminate their rent or lease obligations. co-tenancy clauses have several variants: they may allow a tenant to postpone a store opening if certain other tenants fail to open their stores; they may allow a tenant to close its store prior to lease expiration if another tenant closes its store prior to lease expiration; or more commonly, they may allow a tenant to pay reduced levels of rent until a certain number of tenants open their stores within the same shopping center. a significant percentage of our revenues are derived from smaller shop tenants and our net income could be adversely impacted if our smaller shop tenants are not successful. a significant percentage of our revenues are derived from smaller shop tenants (those occupying less than 10,000 square feet). smaller shop tenants may be more vulnerable to negative economic conditions as they have more limited resources than larger tenants. such tenants continue to face increasing competition from non-store retailers and growing e-commerce. in addition, some of these retailers may seek to reduce their store sizes as they increasingly rely on alternative distribution channels, including internet sales, and adjust their square footage needs accordingly. the types of smaller shop tenants vary from retail shops to service providers. if we are unable to attract the right type or mix of smaller shop tenants into our centers, our net income could be adversely impacted. we may be unable to collect balances due from tenants in bankruptcy. although minimum rent is supported by long-term lease contracts, tenants who file bankruptcy have the legal right to reject any or all of their leases and close related stores. in the event that a tenant with a significant number of leases in our shopping centers files bankruptcy and rejects its leases, we could experience a significant reduction in our revenues and may not be able to collect all pre-petition amounts owed by that party. our real estate assets may be subject to impairment charges. our long-lived assets, primarily real estate held for investment, are carried at cost unless circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. we evaluate whether there are any indicators, including property operating performance and general market conditions, that the value of the real estate properties (including any related amortizable intangible assets or liabilities) may not be recoverable. through the evaluation, we compare the current carrying value of the asset to the estimated undiscounted cash flows that are directly associated with the use and ultimate disposition of the asset. our estimated cash flows are based on several key assumptions, including rental rates, costs of tenant improvements, leasing commissions, anticipated holding periods, and assumptions regarding the residual value upon disposition, including the exit capitalization rate. these key assumptions are subjective in nature and could differ materially from actual results. changes in our disposition strategy or changes in the marketplace may alter the holding period of an asset or asset group, which may result in an impairment loss and such loss could be material to the company's financial condition or operating performance. to the extent that the carrying value of the asset exceeds the estimated undiscounted cash flows, an impairment loss is recognized equal to the excess of carrying value over fair value. the fair value of real estate assets is subjective and is determined through comparable sales information and other market data if available, or through use of an income approach such as the direct capitalization method or the traditional discounted cash flow approach. such cash flow projections consider factors, including expected future operating income, trends and prospects, as well as the effects of demand, competition and other factors, and therefore are subject to management judgment. changes in those factors could impact the determination of fair value. in estimating the fair value of undeveloped land, we generally use market data and comparable sales information. these subjective assessments have a direct impact on our net income because recording an impairment charge results in an immediate negative adjustment to net income. there can be no assurance that we will not take additional charges in the future related to the impairment of our assets. any future impairment could have a material adverse effect on our net income in the period in which the charge is taken. adverse global market and economic conditions could cause us to recognize impairment charges or otherwise harm our performance. we are unable to predict the timing, severity, and length of adverse market and economic conditions. adverse market and economic conditions may impede our ability to generate sufficient operating cash flow to pay expenses, maintain properties, pay distributions to our stock and unit holders, and refinance debt. during adverse periods, there may be significant uncertainty in the valuation of our properties and investments that could result in a substantial decrease in their value. no 6 assurance can be given that we would be able to recover the current carrying amount of all of our properties and investments in the future. our failure to do so would require us to recognize impairment charges for the period in which we reached that conclusion, which could materially and adversely affect us and the market price of our common stock. unsuccessful development activities or a slowdown in development activities could have a direct impact on our revenues, revenue growth, and/or net income. we actively pursue development opportunities. development activities require various government and other approvals for entitlements and any delay in such approvals may significantly delay the development process. we may not recover our investment in development projects for which approvals are not received. we incur other risks associated with development activities, including: the risk that we may be unable to lease developments to full occupancy on a timely basis; the risk that occupancy rates and rents of a completed project will not be sufficient to make the project profitable; the risk that development costs of a project may exceed original estimates, possibly making the project unprofitable; the risk that delays in the development and construction process could increase costs; the risk that we may abandon development opportunities and lose our investment in such opportunities; the risk that the size of our development pipeline will strain our capacity to complete the developments within the targeted timelines and at the expected returns on invested capital; changes in the level of future development and redevelopment activity could have an adverse impact on operating results by reducing the amount of capitalizable internal costs for development projects; and the lack of cash flow during the construction period. if we expand into new markets, we may not be successful, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if opportunities arise, we may acquire properties in new markets. each of the risks applicable to our ability to acquire and integrate successfully and operate properties in our current markets is also applicable in new markets. in addition, we may not possess the same level of familiarity with the dynamics and market conditions of the new markets we may enter, which could adversely affect the results of our expansion into those markets, and we may be unable to achieve our desired return on our investments in new markets. if we are unsuccessful in expanding into new markets, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our acquisition activities may not produce the returns that we expect. our investment strategy includes investing in high-quality shopping centers that are leased to market-dominant grocers, category-leading anchors, specialty retailers, or restaurants located in areas with high barriers to entry and above average household incomes and population densities. the acquisition of properties and/or companies entails risks that include, but are not limited to, the following, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to meet our obligations: properties we acquire may fail to achieve the occupancy or rental rates we project, within the time frames we estimate, which may result in the properties' failure to achieve the returns we projected; our pre-acquisition evaluation of the physical condition of each new investment may not detect certain defects or identify necessary repairs until after the property is acquired, which could significantly increase our total acquisition costs or decrease cash flow from the property; our investigation of a company, property or building prior to our acquisition, and any representations we may receive from such seller, may fail to reveal various liabilities, which could reduce the cash flow from the acquisition or increase our acquisition costs; our estimate of the costs to improve, reposition or redevelop a property may prove to be too low, or the time we estimate to complete the improvement, repositioning or redevelopment may be too short, either of which could result in the property failing to achieve the returns we have projected, either temporarily or for a longer time; we may not recover our costs from an unsuccessful acquisition; our acquisition activities may distract our management and generate significant costs; and we may not be able to integrate an acquisition into our existing operations successfully. 7 we may experience difficulty or delay in renewing leases or re-leasing space. we derive most of our revenue from rent received from our tenants. we are subject to the risks that, upon expiration or termination of leases, leases for space in our properties may not be renewed, space may not be re-leased, or the terms of renewal or re-lease, including the cost of required renovations or concessions to tenants, may be less favorable than current lease terms. as a result, our results of operations and our net income could be adversely impacted. we may be unable to sell properties when appropriate because real estate investments are illiquid. real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. our inability to respond promptly to unfavorable changes in the performance of our investments could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our obligations and make distributions to our stock and unit holders. a number of properties in our portfolio are subject to ground leases; if we are found to be in breach of a ground lease or are unable to renew a ground lease, we could be materially and adversely affected. we have properties in our portfolio that are either completely or partially on land subject to ground leases with third parties. accordingly, we only own long-term leasehold or similar interest in those properties. if we are found to be in breach of a ground lease, we could lose our interest in the improvements and the right to operate the property that is subject to the ground lease. in addition, unless we can purchase a fee interest in the underlying land or extend the terms of these leases before or at their expiration, as to which no assurance can be given, we will lose our interest in the improvements and the right to operate such properties. the existing lease terms, including renewal options, were taken into consideration when making our investment decisions. the purchase price and subsequent improvements are being depreciated over the shorter of the remaining life of the ground leases or the useful life of the underlying assets. if we were to lose the right to operate a property due to a breach or not exercising renewal options of the ground lease, we would be unable to derive income from such property, which would impair the value of our investments, and materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. geographic concentration of our properties makes our business vulnerable to natural disasters and severe weather conditions, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and operating results. a significant portion of our property gross leasable area is located in areas that are susceptible to earthquakes, tropical storms, hurricanes, tornadoes, wildfires, and other natural disasters. as of december 31, 2015 , approximately 23.2% , 15.7% , and 10.5% of our property gross leasable area, on a pro-rata basis, was located in california , florida , and texas , respectively. intense weather conditions during the last decade have caused our cost of property insurance to increase significantly. we recognize that the frequency and / or intensity of extreme weather events may continue to increase due to climate change, and as a result, our exposure to these events could increase. these weather conditions also disrupt our business and the business of our tenants, which could affect the ability of some tenants to pay rent and may reduce the willingness of residents to remain in or move to the affected area. therefore, as a result of the geographic concentration of our properties, we face risks, including higher costs, such as uninsured property losses and higher insurance premiums, and disruptions to our business and the businesses of our tenants. an uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the insurance coverage on our properties could subject us to loss of capital or revenue on those properties. we carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, extended coverage, rental loss, and environmental insurance for our properties with policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties. we believe that the insurance carried on our properties is adequate and consistent with industry standards. there are, however, some types of losses, such as losses from hurricanes, terrorism, wars or earthquakes, for which the insurance levels carried may not be sufficient to fully cover catastrophic losses impacting multiple properties. in addition, tenants generally are required to indemnify and hold us harmless from liabilities resulting from injury to persons or damage to personal or real property, on or off the premises, due to activities conducted by tenants or their agents on the properties (including without limitation any environmental contamination), and at the tenant's expense, to obtain and keep in full force during the term of the lease, liability and property damage insurance policies. however, our tenants may not properly maintain their insurance policies or have the ability to pay the deductibles associated with such policies. should a loss occur that is uninsured or in an amount exceeding the combined aggregate limits for the policies noted above, or in the event of a loss that is subject to a substantial deductible under an insurance policy, we could lose all or part of our capital invested in, and anticipated revenue from, such properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to make distributions to stock and unit holders. 8 loss of our key personnel could adversely affect our business and operations. we depend on the efforts of our key executive personnel. although we have developed a succession plan and believe qualified replacements could be found for our key executives, the loss of their services could adversely affect our business and operations. we face competition from numerous sources, including other reits and other real estate owners. the ownership of shopping centers is highly fragmented. we face competition from other reits and well capitalized institutional investors, as well as from numerous small owners in the acquisition, ownership, and leasing of shopping centers. we also compete to develop shopping centers with other reits engaged in development activities as well as with local, regional, and national real estate developers. this competition may: reduce the number of properties available for acquisition or development; increase the cost of properties available for acquisition or development; hinder our ability to attract and retain tenants, leading to increased vacancy rates and/or reduced rents; and adversely affect our ability to minimize our expenses of operation. if we cannot successfully compete in our targeted markets, our cash flow, and therefore distributions to stock and unit holders, may be adversely affected. costs of environmental remediation could reduce our cash flow available for distribution to stock and unit holders. under various federal, state and local laws, an owner or manager of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on the property. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. the cost of any required remediation could exceed the value of the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner or the responsible party. the presence of, or the failure to properly remediate, hazardous or toxic substances may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease a contaminated property or to use the property as collateral for a loan. any of these developments could reduce cash flow and our ability to make distributions to stock and unit holders. compliance with the americans with disabilities act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make unintended expenditures. all of our properties are required to comply with the americans with disabilities act ( ada ), which generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. compliance with ada requirements could require removal of access barriers, and noncompliance could result in imposition of fines by the u.s. government or an award of damages to private litigants, or both. while the tenants to whom we lease properties are obligated by law to comply with the ada provisions, and typically under tenant leases are obligated to cover costs associated with compliance, if required changes involve greater expenditures than anticipated, or if the changes must be made on a more accelerated basis than anticipated, the ability of these tenants to cover costs could be adversely affected. in addition, we are required to operate the properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental entities and become applicable to the properties. we may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with these requirements, and these expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our financial obligations and make distributions to our stock and unit holders. if we do not maintain the security of tenant-related information, we could incur substantial costs and become subject to litigation. we receive certain information about our tenants that depends upon secure transmissions of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. a compromise of our security systems that results in information being obtained by unauthorized persons could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties and require us to expend significant resources related to our information security systems. such disruptions could adversely affect our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions and manage our business; cyber security attacks and other disruptions could harm our ability to run our business. we face risks associated with security breaches, whether through (i) cyber attacks or cyber intrusions, (ii) malware or computer viruses and (iii) people with access or who gain access to our systems, and other significant disruptions of our computer networks and related systems. the risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber 9 intrusion, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. our computer networks and related systems are essential to the operation of our business and our ability to perform day-to-day operations. although we make efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our computer networks and related systems, and we have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. a security breach or other disruption involving our computer networks and related systems could significantly disrupt the proper functioning of our networks and systems and, as a result, disrupt our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. risk factors related to our co-investment partnerships and acquisition structure we do not have voting control over our joint venture investments, so we are unable to ensure that our objectives will be pursued. we have invested substantial capital as a partner in a number of joint venture investments for the acquisition or development of properties. these investments involve risks not present in a wholly-owned project as we do not have voting control over the ventures, although we do have approval rights over major decisions. the other partner may (i) have interests or goals that are inconsistent with our interests or goals or (ii) otherwise impede our objectives. the other partner also may become insolvent or bankrupt. these factors could limit the return that we receive from such investments or cause our cash flows to be lower than our estimates. the termination of our co-investment partnerships could adversely affect our cash flow, operating results, and our ability to make distributions to stock and unit holders. if co-investment partnerships owning a significant number of properties were dissolved for any reason, we would lose the asset and property management fees from these co-investment partnerships, which could adversely affect our operating results and our cash available for distribution to stock and unit holders. risk factors related to funding strategies and capital structure higher market capitalization rates for our properties could adversely impact our ability to sell properties and fund developments and acquisitions, and could dilute earnings. as part of our funding strategy, we sell operating properties that no longer meet our investment standards or those with a limited future growth profile. these sales proceeds are used to fund the construction of new developments, redevelopments and acquisitions. an increase in market capitalization rates could cause a reduction in the value of centers identified for sale, which would have an adverse impact on the amount of cash generated. in order to meet the cash requirements of our development program, we may be required to sell more properties than initially planned, which could have a negative impact on our earnings. we depend on external sources of capital, which may not be available in the future on favorable terms or at all. to qualify as a reit, the parent company must, among other things, distribute to its stockholders each year at least 90% of its reit taxable income (excluding any net capital gains). because of these distribution requirements, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs with income from operations. we therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. our access to debt depends on our credit rating, the willingness of creditors to lend to us and conditions in the capital markets. in addition to finding creditors willing to lend to us, we are dependent upon our joint venture partners to contribute their pro rata share of any amount needed to repay or refinance existing debt when lenders reduce the amount of debt our joint ventures are eligible to refinance. in addition, our existing debt arrangements also impose covenants that limit our flexibility in obtaining other financing, such as a prohibition on negative pledge agreements. additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of stockholders' interests and additional debt financing may substantially increase our degree of leverage. without access to external sources of capital, we would be required to pay outstanding debt with our operating cash flows and proceeds from property sales. our operating cash flows may not be sufficient to pay our outstanding debt as it comes due and real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly at a return we believe is appropriate. if we are required to deleverage our business with operating cash flows and proceeds from property sales, we may be forced to reduce the amount of, or eliminate altogether, our distributions to stock and unit holders or refrain from making investments in our business. 10 our debt financing may adversely affect our business and financial condition. our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our indebtedness will depend primarily on our future performance, which to a certain extent is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. in addition, we do not expect to generate sufficient funds from operations to make balloon principal payments on our debt when due. if we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, we may be forced (i) to dispose of properties, which might result in losses, or (ii) to obtain financing at unfavorable terms, either of which could reduce the cash flow available for distributions to stock and unit holders. if we cannot make required mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property securing the mortgage. covenants in our debt agreements may restrict our operating activities and adversely affect our financial condition. our unsecured notes, unsecured term loan, and unsecured line of credit contain customary covenants, including compliance with financial ratios, such as ratio of total debt to gross asset value and fixed charge coverage ratio. fixed charge coverage ratio is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("ebitda") divided by the sum of interest expense and scheduled mortgage principal paid to our lenders plus dividends paid to our preferred stockholders. our debt arrangements also restrict our ability to enter into a transaction that would result in a change of control. these covenants may limit our operational flexibility and our acquisition activities. moreover, if we breach any of the covenants in our debt agreements, and do not cure the breach within the applicable cure period, our lenders could require us to repay the debt immediately, even in the absence of a payment default. many of our debt arrangements, including our unsecured notes, unsecured term loan, and unsecured line of credit are cross-defaulted, which means that the lenders under those debt arrangements can put us in default and require immediate repayment of their debt if we breach and fail to cure a default under certain of our other material debt obligations. as a result, any default under our debt covenants could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, our results of operations, our ability to meet our obligations, and the market value of our stock. increases in interest rates would cause our borrowing costs to rise and negatively impact our results of operations. although a significant amount of our outstanding debt has fixed interest rates, we do borrow funds at variable interest rates under our credit facilities. increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense on any variable rate debt to the extent we have not hedged our exposure to changes in interest rates. in addition, increases in interest rates will affect the terms under which we refinance our existing debt as it matures, to the extent we have not hedged our exposure to changes in interest rates. this would reduce our future earnings and cash flows, which could adversely affect our ability to service our debt and meet our other obligations and also could reduce the amount we are able to distribute to our stock and unit holders. hedging activity may expose us to risks, including the risks that a counterparty will not perform and that the hedge will not yield the economic benefits we anticipate, which could adversely affect us. from time to time, we manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements that involve risk, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, and that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes. there can be no assurance that our hedging arrangements will qualify for hedge accounting or that our hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations. should we desire to terminate a hedging agreement, there could be significant costs and cash requirements involved to fulfill our obligations under the hedging agreement. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. we may acquire properties or portfolios of properties through tax-deferred contribution transactions, which could result in stockholder dilution and limit our ability to sell such assets. we may acquire properties or portfolios of properties through tax deferred contribution transactions in exchange for partnership interests in our operating partnership, which may result in stockholder dilution. this acquisition structure may have the effect of, among other things, reducing the amount of tax depreciation we could deduct over the tax life of the acquired properties, and may require that we agree to protect the contributors' ability to defer recognition of taxable gain through restrictions on our ability to dispose of the acquired properties and/or the allocation of partnership debt to the contributors to maintain their tax bases. these restrictions could limit our ability to sell an asset at a time, or on terms, that would be favorable absent such restrictions. 11 risk factors related to the market price for our debt and equity securities changes in economic and market conditions could adversely affect the market price of our securities. the market price of our debt and equity securities may fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, many of which are out of our control, including: actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates; publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry in general and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other reit's; the ability of our tenants to pay rent and meet their other obligations to us under current lease terms and our ability to re-lease space as leases expire; increases in market interest rates that drive purchasers of our stock to demand a higher dividend yield; changes in market valuations of similar companies; adverse market reaction to any additional debt we incur in the future; any future issuances of equity securities; additions or departures of key management personnel; strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; actions by institutional stockholders; changes in our dividend payments; speculation in the press or investment community; and general market and economic conditions. these factors may cause the market price of our securities to decline, regardless of our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. it is impossible to ensure that the market price of our securities, including our common stock, will not fall in the future. a decrease in the market price of our common stock could reduce our ability to raise additional equity in the public markets. selling common stock at a decreased market price would have a dilutive impact on existing stockholders. we cannot assure you we will continue to pay dividends at historical rates. our ability to continue to pay dividends at historical rates or to increase our dividend rate will depend on a number of factors, including, among others, the following: our financial condition and results of future operations; the terms of our loan covenants; and our ability to acquire, finance, develop or redevelop and lease additional properties at attractive rates. if we do not maintain or periodically increase the dividend on our common stock, it could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and other securities. changes in accounting standards may adversely impact our financial results. the financial accounting standards board ("fasb"), in conjunction with the sec, has several key projects on their agenda that could impact how we currently account for our material transactions, including lease accounting and other convergence projects with the international accounting standards board. at this time, we are unable to predict with certainty which, if any, proposals may be passed or what level of impact any such proposal could have on the presentation of our consolidated financial statements, our results of operations and our financial ratios required by our debt covenants. risk factors related to federal income tax laws if the parent company fails to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, it would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. we believe that the parent company qualifies for taxation as a reit for federal income tax purposes, and we plan to operate so that we can continue to meet the requirements for taxation as a reit. if the parent company continues to qualify as a reit, it generally will not be subject to federal income tax on income that we distribute to our stockholders. many reit requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. the determination that the parent company is a reit requires an 12 analysis of various factual matters and circumstances, some of which may not be totally within our control and some of which involve questions of interpretation. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income must come from specific passive sources, like rent, that are itemized in the reit tax laws. there can be no assurance that the internal revenue service ( irs ) or a court would agree with the positions we have taken in interpreting the reit requirements. we are also required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income, excluding capital gains. the fact that we hold many of our assets through co-investment partnerships and their subsidiaries further complicates the application of the reit requirements. furthermore, congress and the irs might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings, that make it more difficult, or impossible, for the parent company to remain qualified as a reit. also, unless the irs granted relief under certain statutory provisions, the parent company would remain disqualified as a reit for four years following the year it first failed to qualify. if the parent company failed to qualify as a reit (currently and/or with respect to any tax years for which the statute of limitations has not expired), we would have to pay significant income taxes, reducing cash available to pay dividends, which would likely have a significant adverse effect on the value of our securities. in addition, we would no longer be required to pay any dividends to stockholders. although we believe that the parent company qualifies as a reit, we cannot assure you that the parent company will continue to qualify or remain qualified as a reit for tax purposes. even if the parent company qualifies as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. for example, if we have net income from prohibited transactions, that income will be subject to a 100% tax. in general, prohibited transactions include sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. the determination as to whether a particular sale is a prohibited transaction depends on the facts and circumstances related to that sale. while we have undertaken a significant number of asset sales in recent years, we do not believe that those sales should be considered prohibited transactions, but there can be no assurance that the irs would not contend otherwise. dividends paid by reits generally do not qualify for reduced tax rates. subject to limited exceptions, dividends paid by reits (other than distributions designated as capital gain dividends or returns of capital) are not eligible for reduced rates for qualified dividends paid by "c" corporations and are taxable at ordinary income tax rates. the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in reits to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-reit corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of reits, including the shares of our capital stock. foreign stockholders may be subject to u.s. federal income tax on gain recognized on a disposition of our common stock if we do not qualify as a "domestically controlled" reit. a foreign person disposing of a u.s. real property interest, including shares of a u.s. corporation whose assets consist principally of u.s. real property interests is generally subject to u.s. federal income tax on any gain recognized on the disposition. this tax does not apply, however, to the disposition of stock in a reit if the reit is "domestically controlled." in general, we will be a domestically controlled reit if at all times during the five-year period ending on the applicable stockholder's disposition of our stock, less than 50% in value of our stock was held directly or indirectly by non-u.s. persons. if we were to fail to qualify as a domestically controlled reit, gain recognized by a foreign stockholder on a disposition of our common stock would be subject to u.s. federal income tax unless our common stock was traded on an established securities market and the foreign stockholder did not at any time during a specified testing period directly or indirectly own more than 10% of our outstanding common stock. complying with reit requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities. the reit provisions of the code limit our ability to hedge our liabilities. generally, income from a hedging transaction we enter into either to manage risk of interest rate changes with respect to borrowings incurred or to be incurred to acquire or carry real estate assets, or to manage the risk of currency fluctuations with respect to any item of income or gain (or any property which generates such income or gain) that constitutes qualifying income for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests applicable to reits, does not constitute gross income for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests, provided that we properly identify the hedging transaction pursuant to the applicable sections of the code and treasury regulations. to the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, or fail to make the proper tax identifications, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both gross income tests. as a result of these rules, we may need to limit our use of otherwise advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a taxable reit subsidiary, or trs. the use of a trs could increase the cost of our hedging activities (because our trs would be subject to tax on income or gain resulting from hedges entered into by it) or expose us to greater risks than we would 13 otherwise want to bear. in addition, net losses in a trs will generally not provide any tax benefit except for being carried forward for use against future taxable income in the trs. risk factors related to our ownership limitations and the florida business corporation act restrictions on the ownership of the parent company's capital stock to preserve its reit status could delay or prevent a change in control. ownership of more than 7% by value of our outstanding capital stock is prohibited, with certain exceptions, by the parent company's articles of incorporation, for the purpose of maintaining its qualification as a reit. this 7% limitation may discourage a change in control and may also (i) deter tender offers for our capital stock, which offers may be attractive to our stockholders, or (ii) limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their capital stock that might otherwise exist if an investor attempted to assemble a block in excess of 7% of our outstanding capital stock or to affect a change in control. the issuance of the parent company's capital stock could delay or prevent a change in control. the parent company's articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 30,000,000 shares of preferred stock and 10,000,000 shares of special common stock and to establish the preferences and rights of any shares issued. the issuance of preferred stock or special common stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. the provisions of the florida business corporation act regarding affiliated transactions could also deter potential acquisitions by preventing the acquiring party from consummating a merger or other extraordinary corporate transaction without the approval of our disinterested stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to two significant components of interest rate risk: we have an $800.0 million line commitment and a $165.0 million term loan commitment, as further described in note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. our line commitment has a variable interest rate that is based upon an annual rate of libor plus 0.925 basis points and our term loan has a variable rate of libor plus 0.975 basis points . our line is subject to a fee on the $800.0 million total capacity. libor rates charged on our line and term loan (collectively our "unsecured credit facilities") change monthly. the spread on the unsecured credit facilities is dependent upon maintaining specific credit ratings. if our credit ratings are downgraded, the spread on the unsecured credit facilities would increase, resulting in higher interest costs. we are also exposed to changes in interest rates when we refinance our existing long-term fixed rate debt. the objective of our interest rate risk management program is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows. to achieve these objectives, we borrow primarily at fixed interest rates and may enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps, or treasury locks in order to mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument. we do not enter into derivative or interest rate transactions for speculative purposes. our interest rate swaps are structured solely for the purpose of interest rate protection. we have $300.0 million of fixed rate, unsecured debt maturing in june 2017 . in order to mitigate the risk of interest rate volatility, we previously entered into $220.0 million of forward starting interest rate swaps to partially hedge the new debt expected to be issued in 2017 . these interest rate swaps lock in the 10-year treasury rate and swap spread at a weighted average fixed rate of 3.48%. a current market based credit spread applicable to regency will be added to the locked in fixed rate at time of issuance that will determine the final bond yield. we continuously monitor the capital markets and evaluate our ability to issue new debt to repay maturing debt or fund our commitments. based upon the current capital markets, our current credit ratings, our current capacity under our unsecured credit facilities, and the number of high quality, unencumbered properties that we own which could collateralize borrowings, we expect that we will be able to successfully issue new secured or unsecured debt to fund these debt obligations. our interest rate risk is monitored using a variety of techniques. the table below presents the principal cash flows, weighted average interest rates of remaining debt, and the fair value of total debt as of december 31, 2015 (dollars in thousands). the table is presented by year of expected maturity to evaluate the expected cash flows and sensitivity to interest rate changes. although the average interest rate for variable rate debt is included in the table, those rates represent rates that existed as of december 31, 2015 and are subject to change on a monthly basis. further, the table below incorporates only those exposures that exist as of december 31, 2015 and does not consider exposures or positions that could arise after that date. since firm commitments are not presented, the table has limited predictive value. as a result, our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to interest rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise during the period, our hedging strategies at that time, and actual interest rates. 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 thereafter total fair value fixed rate debt $ 47,609 422,720 61,969 109,612 205,209 820,601 1,667,720 1,793,200 average interest rate for all fixed rate debt (1) 5.20 % 4.94 % 4.87 % 4.57 % 4.25 % 4.25 % variable rate libor debt $ 357 492 165,517 32,788 199,154 165,300 average interest rate for all variable rate debt (1) % 1.55 % 1.54 % 1.80 % 2.72 % % (1) average interest rates at the end of each year presented. 55risk factors below. the following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto of regency centers corporation and regency centers, l.p. appearing elsewhere herein. we do not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to such forward-looking statements to reflect events or uncertainties after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of uncertain events. pending merger with equity one, inc. on november 14, 2016, regency centers corporation entered into an agreement and plan of merger (the merger agreement ) with equity one, inc. ( equity one ), pursuant to which, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, equity one will merge with and into the regency centers corporation, with regency centers corporation being the surviving corporation (the merger ). the combined company will retain the regency name and continue to trade under the ticker symbol reg on the new york stock exchange (the nyse ). on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the merger agreement, which has been unanimously approved by the boards of directors of regency centers corporation and equity one, at the effective time of the merger (the effective time ), each share of the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of equity one issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time (other than shares of equity one owned directly by equity one or the regency centers corporation and in each case not held on behalf of third parties) will be converted into the right to receive 0.45 of a newly issued share of the common stock of regency centers corporation. the closing of the merger is subject to certain conditions, including the requisite approvals from the stockholders of each of regency centers corporation and equity one (which approvals were received at special meetings of the stockholders of each company held on february 24, 2017), the receipt of certain tax opinions by regency centers corporation and equity one, and other customary closing conditions. the merger is expected to close on march 1, 2017. however, the company cannot predict with certainty when, or if, the merger will be completed because completion of the merger is subject to conditions beyond the control of the company. for more information about the merger, the merger agreement and related agreements, see note 16 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8 herein. part i item 1. business regency centers began its operations as a publicly-traded reit in 1993, and, as of december 31, 2016 , owns direct or partial interests in 307 shopping centers, the majority of which are grocery-anchored community and neighborhood centers. our centers are located in the top markets of 25 states and the district of columbia, and contain 37.8 million square feet ("sf") of gross leasable area ("gla"). our pro-rata share of this gla is 28.7 million square feet. all of our operating, investing, and financing activities are performed through the operating partnership, our wholly-owned subsidiaries, and through our co-investment partnerships. our mission is to be the preeminent national grocery-anchored shopping center owner and developer through: first-rate performance of our exceptionally merchandised and located national portfolio; value-enhancing services from an accomplished team of professionals in the business; and creation of superior growth in shareholder value. our strategy is: sustain average annual 3% same property noi growth from a high-quality, growing portfolio of thriving community and neighborhood shopping centers; develop new, and redevelop existing, high quality shopping centers at attractive returns on investment from a disciplined development program; 1 maintain our balance sheet to provide financial flexibility, to cost effectively fund uses of capital, and to weather economic downturns; and engage a talented and dedicated team with high standards of integrity that operates efficiently and is recognized as a leader in the real estate industry. we expect to execute our strategy as follows: sustain average annual 3% same property noi growth from a high-quality, growing portfolio of thriving community and neighborhood shopping centers: own and develop centers that are located at key corners in our nation's most attractive metro areas; target trade areas characterized by their strong demographics and consumer buying power, and draw shoppers to our centers with highly productive anchor tenants; attract the best national, regional and local retailers and restaurants; pursue initiatives that reinforce the underlying quality of our portfolio and maximize long-term growth such as fresh look , an operating philosophy that guides our merchandising and place-making programs; fortify future noi growth by rigorously reviewing our portfolio to identify and sell operating properties that no longer meet our investment standards; and opportunistically upgrade our portfolio by acquiring high quality shopping centers with meaningful upside in noi growth funded from the sale of operating properties that no longer meet our investment standards. develop new, and redevelop existing, high quality shopping centers at attractive returns on investment from a disciplined development program: maintain and grow our existing presence in our key markets with in-house expertise and anchor relationships; develop shopping centers located in desirable infill markets for long-term ownership; anchor developments with dominant, national and regional chains and high volume specialty grocers; create additional value through redevelopment of existing centers; and fund our development program primarily from the sale of operating properties that no longer meet our investment criteria. cost-effectively enhance our balance sheet to reduce our cost of capital, provide financial flexibility and weather economic downturns: prudently access our multiple sources of debt and equity through the capital markets and co-investment partnerships; fund development and acquisitions from free cash flows, selling operating properties that no longer meet our investment standards, and accessing favorably priced equity; further reduce leverage through organic growth in earnings and, when appropriate, accessing the capital markets; rigorously manage our line of credit and maintain substantial uncommitted capacity; maintain a large pool of unencumbered assets and excellent relationships with mortgage lenders; and maintain a well laddered debt maturity profile. engage a talented and dedicated team that operates efficiently and is recognized as a leader in the real estate industry with respect to development and operating capabilities, customer relationships, operating and technology systems, and environmental sustainability: reflect our values by executing and successfully meeting our commitments to our people and our communities, a tradition we have embraced for over 50 years; foster a values-based culture, offering a comprehensive benefits package and an engaging workplace environment; uphold unwavering standards of honesty and integrity and build our reputation by maintaining the highest ethical principles; offer a challenging, safe and dynamic work environment and support the professional development and personal life of each employee; encourage employees to achieve their personal health goals through a robust wellness program focused on education, awareness and prevention; and contribute to the betterment of our communities by supporting philanthropic programs with employee contribution matching and paid volunteer time. environmental sustainability we believe being an industry leader in sustainability is in the best interest of our tenants, investors, employees, and the communities in which we operate. we are committed to reducing our environmental impact, including energy and water use, 2 greenhouse gas emissions, and waste. we believe this commitment is not only the right thing to do, but also assists the company in achieving key strategic objectives in operations and development. we are committed to transparency with regard to our sustainability performance, risks and opportunities, and will continue to increase disclosure using industry accepted reporting frameworks. we currently have a green star rating from the global real estate sustainability benchmark, or gresb, for the second consecutive year. more information about our sustainability strategy, goals, performance, and formal disclosures are available on our website at www.regencycenters.com. competition we are amongst the largest owners of shopping centers in the nation based on revenues, number of properties, gla, and market capitalization. there are numerous companies and individuals engaged in the ownership, development, acquisition, and operation of shopping centers that compete with us in our targeted markets, including grocery store chains that also anchor some of our shopping centers. this results in competition for attracting anchor tenants, as well as the acquisition of existing shopping centers and new development sites. we believe that our competitive advantages are driven by: our locations within our market areas; the design and high quality of our shopping centers; the strong demographics surrounding our shopping centers; our relationships with our anchor tenants and our side-shop and out-parcel retailers; our practice of maintaining and renovating our shopping centers; and our ability to source and develop new shopping centers. employees our corporate headquarters are located at one independent drive, suite 114, jacksonville, florida. we presently maintain 18 market offices nationwide, including our corporate headquarters, where we conduct management, leasing, construction, and investment activities. we have 371 employees and we believe that our relations with our employees are good. compliance with governmental regulations under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, we may be liable for the cost to remove or remediate certain hazardous or toxic substances at our shopping centers. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. the cost of required remediation and the owner's liability for remediation could exceed the value of the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner. the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or borrow using the property as collateral. although we have a number of properties that could require or are currently undergoing varying levels of environmental remediation, known environmental remediation is not currently expected to have a material financial impact on us due to insurance programs designed to mitigate the cost of remediation, various state-regulated programs that shift the responsibility and cost to the state, and existing accrued liabilities for remediation. 3 executive officers our executive officers are appointed each year by our board of directors. each of our executive officers has been employed by us for more than five years. name age title executive officer in position shown since martin e. stein, jr. 64 chairman and chief executive officer 1993 lisa palmer 49 president and chief financial officer 2016 (1) dan m. chandler, iii 49 executive vice president of development 2016 (2) james d. thompson 61 executive vice president of operations 2016 (3) (1) ms. palmer assumed the responsibilities of president, effective january 1, 2016 in addition to her responsibilities as chief financial officer, which she has held since january 2013. prior to that, ms. palmer served as senior vice president of capital markets since 2003 and has been with the company since 1996. (2) mr. chandler assumed the role of executive vice president of development on january 1, 2016 and previously served as our managing director - west since 2009. prior to that, mr. chandler served as a managing director from 2006 to 2007, senior president of investments from 2002 to 2006, and vice president of investments from 1997 to 2002. (3) mr. thompson assumed the role of executive vice president of operations on january 1, 2016 and previously served as our managing director - east since our initial public offering in 1993. prior to that time, mr. thompson served as executive vice president of our predecessor real estate division beginning in 1981. company website access and sec filings our website may be accessed at www.regencycenters.com . all of our filings with the securities and exchange commission can be accessed free of charge through our website promptly after filing; however, in the event that the website is inaccessible, we will provide paper copies of our most recent annual report on form 10-k, the most recent quarterly report on form 10-q, current reports filed or furnished on form 8-k, and all related amendments, excluding exhibits, free of charge upon request. these filings are also accessible on the sec's website at www.sec.gov . general information our registrar and stock transfer agent is broadridge corporate issuer solutions, inc. ( broadridge ), philadelphia, pa. we offer a dividend reinvestment plan ( drip ) that enables our stockholders to reinvest dividends automatically, as well as to make voluntary cash payments toward the purchase of additional shares. for more information, contact broadridge toll free at (855) 449-0975 or our shareholder relations department at (904) 598-7000. our independent registered public accounting firm is kpmg llp, jacksonville, florida. our legal counsel is foley &amp; lardner llp, jacksonville, florida. annual meeting our annual meeting will be held at the river club, florida room 2, one independent dr., jacksonville, florida, at 10:30 a.m. on thursday, april 27, 2017 . 4 defined terms we use certain non-gaap performance measures, in addition to the required gaap presentations, as we believe these measures improve the understanding of the company's operational results. we manage our entire real estate portfolio without regard to ownership structure, although certain decisions impacting properties owned through partnerships require partner approval. therefore, we believe presenting our pro-rata share of certain operating metrics regardless of ownership structure, along with other non-gaap measures, makes comparisons of other reits' operating results to the company's more meaningful. we continually evaluate the usefulness, relevance, limitations, and calculation of our reported non-gaap performance measures to determine how best to provide relevant information to the public, and thus such reported measures could change. the following terms, as defined, are commonly used by management and the investing public to understand and evaluate our operational results: same property information is provided for operating properties that were owned and operated for the entirety of both calendar year periods being compared and excludes non-same properties and properties in development. a non-same property is a property acquired, sold, or a development completion during either calendar year period being compared. corporate activities, including the captive insurance company, are part of non-same property. property in development includes land or properties in various stages of development and redevelopment including active pre-development activities. development completion is a project in development that is deemed complete upon the earliest of: (i) 90% of total estimated net development costs have been incurred and percent leased equals or exceeds 95%, or (ii) the project features at least two years of anchor operations, or (iii) three years have passed since the start of construction. once deemed complete, the property is termed an operating property. pro-rata information includes 100% of our consolidated properties plus our ownership interest in our unconsolidated real estate investment partnerships. the pro-rata information is prepared on a basis consistent with the comparable consolidated amounts and is intended to more accurately reflect our proportionate economic interest in the operating results of properties in our portfolio. we do not control the unconsolidated investment partnerships, and the pro-rata presentations of the assets and liabilities, and revenues and expenses do not represent our legal claim to such items. the partners are entitled to profit or loss allocations and distributions of cash flows according to the operating agreements, which provide for such allocations according to their invested capital. our share of invested capital establishes the ownership interests we use to prepare our pro-rata share. the presentation of pro-rata information has limitations which include, but are not limited to, the following: the amounts shown on the individual line items were derived by applying our overall economic ownership interest percentage determined when applying the equity method of accounting or allocating noncontrolling interests, and do not necessarily represent our legal claim to the assets and liabilities, or the revenues and expenses; and other companies in our industry may calculate their pro-rata interest differently, limiting the usefulness as a comparative measure. because of these limitations, the pro-rata financial information should not be considered independently or as a substitute for our financial statements as reported under gaap. we compensate for these limitations by relying primarily on our gaap financial statements, using the pro-rata information as a supplement. core ebitda is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, real estate gains and losses, and development and acquisition pursuit costs. fixed charge coverage ratio is defined as core ebitda divided by the sum of the gross interest and scheduled mortgage principal paid to our lenders plus dividends paid to our preferred stockholders. net operating income ("noi") is the sum of minimum rent, percentage rent and recoveries from tenants and other income, less operating and maintenance, real estate taxes, and provision for doubtful accounts. noi excludes straight- 5 line rental income and expense, above and below market rent amortization and other fees. the company also provides disclosure of noi excluding termination fees, which excludes both termination fee income and expenses. nareit funds from operations ("nareit ffo") is a commonly used measure of reit performance, which the national association of real estate investment trusts ("nareit") defines as net income, computed in accordance with gaap, excluding gains and losses from sales of depreciable property, net of tax, excluding operating real estate impairments, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. we compute nareit ffo for all periods presented in accordance with nareit's definition. many companies use different depreciable lives and methods, and real estate values historically fluctuate with market conditions. since nareit ffo excludes depreciation and amortization and gains and losses from depreciable property dispositions, and impairments, it provides a performance measure that, when compared year over year, reflects the impact on operations from trends in occupancy rates, rental rates, operating costs, acquisition and development activities, and financing costs. this provides a perspective of our financial performance not immediately apparent from net income determined in accordance with gaap. thus, nareit ffo is a supplemental non-gaap financial measure of our operating performance, which does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with gaap; and, therefore, should not be considered a substitute measure of cash flows from operations. core ffo is an additional performance measure used by regency as the computation of nareit ffo includes certain non-cash and non-comparable items that affect the company's period-over-period performance. core ffo excludes from nareit ffo, but is not limited to: (a) transaction related gains, income or expense; (b) impairments on land; (c) gains or losses from the early extinguishment of debt; and (d) other non-core amounts as they occur. the company provides a reconciliation of nareit ffo to core ffo. 6 item 1a. risk factors risks relating to the merger the merger may not be completed on the terms or timeline currently contemplated, or at all. although regency centers' stockholders and equity one's stockholders approved the merger in separate stockholder meetings on february 24, 2017, the completion of the merger is subject to certain conditions, including: (1) approval for listing on the nyse of the common stock of regency centers to be issued in connection with the merger; (2) the registration statement for our shares being issued pursuant to the merger not being the subject of any stop order or proceeding seeking a stop order; (3) no injunction or law prohibiting the merger; (4) accuracy of each party's representations, subject in most cases to materiality or material adverse effect qualifications; (5) material compliance with each party's covenants; and (6) receipt by each of equity one and regency centers of an opinion to the effect that the merger will qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of section 368(a) of the code and of an opinion that each of equity one and regency centers qualify as a reit under the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the "code"). neither equity one nor regency centers can provide assurances that the merger will be consummated on the terms or timeline currently contemplated, or at all. the exchange ratio is fixed and will not be adjusted in the event of any change in either our or equity one's stock prices. at the effective time of the merger, each share of equity one common stock (other than any shares owned directly by regency centers or equity one and in each case not held on behalf of third parties) outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the merger will be converted into the right to receive 0.45 of a newly issued share of our common stock, with cash paid in lieu of fractional shares. the exchange ratio is fixed in the merger agreement and will not be adjusted for changes in the market price of either our common stock or equity one common stock. changes in the price of our common stock prior to the merger will affect the market value of the merger consideration that equity one stockholders will receive on the closing of the merger. stock price changes may result from a variety of factors (many of which are beyond the control of regency centers and equity one), including the following factors: changes in the respective businesses, operations, assets, liabilities and prospects of either company; changes in market assessments of the business, operations, financial position and prospects of either company; market assessments of the likelihood that the merger will be completed; interest rates, general market and economic conditions and other factors generally affecting the price of our common stock and equity one common stock; federal, state and local legislation, governmental regulation and legal developments in the businesses in which we and equity one operate; and other factors beyond the control of regency centers or equity one, including those described under this risk factors heading. our stockholders may be diluted by the merger. the merger may dilute the ownership position of our stockholders. upon completion of the merger, our legacy stockholders will own approximately 62% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock, and legacy equity one stockholders will own approximately 38% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock. consequently, our stockholders may have less influence over our management and policies after the effective time of the merger than they currently exercise over our management and policies. failure to complete the merger could adversely affect our stock price and our future business and financial results . if the merger is not completed, our ongoing businesses may be adversely affected and we will be subject to numerous risks, including the following: upon termination of the merger agreement under specified circumstances, equity one may be required to pay regency centers a termination fee of $150 million and we may be required to pay equity one a termination fee of $240 million; we are paying substantial costs relating to the merger, such as legal, accounting, financial advisor, filing, printing and mailing fees and integration preparation costs that have already been incurred or will continue to be incurred until the closing of the merger; our management focusing on the merger instead of on pursuing other opportunities that could be beneficial to regency centers without realizing any of the benefits of having the merger completed; and reputational harm due to the adverse perception of any failure to successfully complete the merger. 7 if the merger is not completed, we cannot assure our stockholders that these risks will not materialize or will not materially affect the business, financial results and our stock prices. the merger agreement contains provisions that could discourage a potential competing acquirer of regency centers or could result in any competing proposal being at a lower price than it might otherwise be. the merger agreement contains provisions that, subject to limited exceptions, restrict the ability of each of regency centers and equity one to initiate, solicit, propose, knowingly encourage or facilitate competing third-party proposals to effect, among other things, a merger, reorganization, share exchange, consolidation or the sale of 15% or more of the stock or consolidated net revenues, net income or total assets of regency centers or equity one. in addition, either regency centers or equity one generally has an opportunity to offer to modify the terms of the merger agreement in response to certain competing superior proposals that may be made to the other party before the boards of directors of regency centers or equity one, as the case may be, may withdraw or modify its recommendation in response to such superior proposal or terminate the merger agreement to enter into such superior proposal. in some circumstances, one of the parties will be required to pay a substantial termination fee to the other party. these provisions could discourage a potential competing acquirer that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of regency centers from considering or proposing such an acquisition, even if it were prepared to pay consideration with a higher per share cash or market value than that market value proposed to be received or realized in the merger, or might result in a potential competing acquirer proposing to pay a lower price than it might otherwise have proposed to pay because of the added expense of the termination fee that may become payable in certain circumstances under the merger agreement. the pendency of the merger could adversely affect the business and operations of regency centers and equity one. in connection with the pending merger, some of our and equity one's tenants or vendors may delay or defer decisions, which could adversely affect the revenues, earnings, funds from operations, cash flows and expenses of regency centers and equity one, regardless of whether the merger is completed. similarly, current and prospective employees of regency centers and equity one may experience uncertainty about their future roles with regency centers following the merger, which may materially adversely affect our and equity one's ability to attract and retain key personnel during the pendency of the merger. in addition, due to interim operating covenants in the merger agreement, we and equity one may be unable (without the other party's prior written consent), during the pendency of the merger, to pursue strategic transactions, undertake significant capital projects, undertake certain significant financing transactions and otherwise pursue other actions, even if such actions would prove beneficial. risks relating to regency centers after completion of the merger we expect to incur substantial expenses related to the merger. we expect to incur substantial expenses in completing the merger and integrating the business, operations, networks, systems, technologies, policies and procedures of regency centers and equity one. there are a large number of processes that must be integrated in the merger, including leasing, billing, management information, purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, payroll and benefits, fixed asset, lease administration and regulatory compliance. while we and equity one have assumed that a certain level of transaction and integration expenses would be incurred, there are a number of factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of integration expenses. following the merger, we may be unable to integrate the business of equity one successfully or realize the anticipated synergies and related benefits of the merger or do so within the anticipated time frame. the merger involves the combination of two companies which currently operate as independent public companies. we will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the business practices and operations of equity one. potential difficulties we may encounter in the integration process include the following: the inability to successfully combine the businesses of regency centers and equity one in a manner that permits regency centers to achieve the cost savings anticipated to result from the merger, which would result in some anticipated benefits of the merger not being realized in the time frame currently anticipated, or at all; the inability to successfully realize the anticipated value from some of equity one's assets, particularly from the redevelopment projects; lost sales and tenants as a result of certain tenants of either of regency centers or equity one deciding not to continue to do business with regency centers; the complexities associated with integrating personnel from the two companies; the additional complexities of combining two companies with different histories, cultures, markets, strategies and customer bases; 8 the failure by regency centers to retain key employees of either of the two companies; potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses, delays or regulatory conditions associated with the merger; and performance shortfalls at one or both of the two companies as a result of the diversion of management's attention caused by completing the merger and integrating the companies' operations. for all these reasons, you should be aware that it is possible that the integration process could result in the distraction of our management, the disruption of our ongoing business or inconsistencies in our services, standards, controls, procedures and policies, any of which could adversely affect the ability of regency centers to maintain relationships with tenants, vendors and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the merger, or could otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. following the merger, we may be unable to retain key employees. our success after the merger will depend in part upon our ability to retain key regency and equity one employees. key employees may depart either before or after the merger because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with regency centers following the merger. accordingly, no assurance can be given that we will be able to retain key employees to the same extent as in the past. our future operating results will suffer if we do not effectively manage our operations following the merger. following the merger, we may continue to expand our operations through additional acquisitions, development opportunities and other strategic transactions, some of which involve complex challenges. our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to manage our expansion opportunities, which may pose substantial challenges for regency centers to integrate new operations into our existing business in an efficient and timely manner, and to successfully monitor our operations, costs, regulatory compliance and service quality, and to maintain other necessary internal controls. we cannot assure you that our expansion or acquisition opportunities will be successful, or that we will realize our expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements, synergies or other benefits. the trading price of shares of our common stock following the merger may be affected by factors different from those affecting the price of shares of our common stock before the merger. if the merger is completed, legacy regency stockholders will become holders of approximately 62% of the outstanding shares of our common stock and legacy equity one stockholders will become holders of approximately 38% of the outstanding shares of equity one common stock. the results of our operations and the trading price of our common stock after the merger may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting our results of operations and the trading prices of our common stock. for example, some institutional investors which currently own both equity one and our common stock may elect to decrease their ownership in the merged company by selling our common stock. accordingly, the historical trading prices and financial results of regency centers and equity one may not be indicative of these matters for regency centers after the merger. following the merger, we will have a substantial amount of indebtedness and may need to incur more in the future. we have substantial indebtedness and, in connection with the merger, will incur additional indebtedness. the incurrence of new indebtedness could have adverse consequences on our business following the merger, such as: requiring regency centers to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, which would reduce the available cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, development projects, and other general corporate purposes and reduce cash for distributions; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital needs, acquisitions, capital expenditures, or other debt service requirements or for other purposes; increasing our costs of incurring additional debt; increasing our exposure to floating interest rates; limiting our ability to compete with other companies that are not as highly leveraged, as we may be less capable of responding to adverse economic and industry conditions; restricting regency centers from making strategic acquisitions, developing properties, or exploiting business opportunities; restricting the way in which we conduct our business because of financial and operating covenants in the agreements governing our existing and future indebtedness; exposing regency centers to potential events of default (if not cured or waived) under covenants contained in our debt instruments that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results; 9 increasing our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions; and limiting our ability to react to changing market conditions in its industry. the impact of any of these potential adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. at the effective time of the merger, the gazit parties will become significant stockholders of regency centers and may have interests that are different from, or are in addition to, regency centers or our other stockholders in the future. at the effective time of the merger, mr. chaim katzman and gazit-globe, ltd. and certain of its affiliated entities ("the gazit parties") will own approximately 13% of outstanding shares of our common stock, based on their ownership of approximately 34% of the equity one common stock as of november 14, 2016. this concentration of ownership in one group of stockholders could potentially be disadvantageous to the interests of our other stockholders. for example, if the gazit parties were to sell or otherwise transfer all or a large percentage of their holdings, our stock price could decline, and we could find it more expensive to raise capital, if needed, through the sale of additional equity securities. under the governance agreement, we are required to nominate mr. katzman to our board of directors and solicit votes for his election for so long as the gazit parties beneficially own 7% or more of our common stock outstanding as of immediately after the effective time of the merger. the governance agreement also provides that in the event of mr. katzman's death, disability, resignation or removal, or failure of mr. katzman to be re-elected, the gazit parties will have the right to designate another person to be appointed to our board of directors, which person must be reasonably acceptable to our board of directors. the gazit parties have interests that may be different from, or in addition to, the interests of our other stockholders in material respects. for example, the gazit parties may have an interest in directly or indirectly pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their other equity investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to regency centers. the gazit parties may, from time to time in the future, acquire interests in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with our business. they may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to regency centers. for more information, see agreements with the gazit parties-governance agreement. counterparties to certain agreements with regency centers or equity one may exercise contractual rights under such agreements in connection with the merger. we and equity one are each party to certain agreements that give the counterparty certain rights following a change in control, including in some cases the right to terminate such agreements. under some such agreements, for example certain debt obligations, the merger may constitute a change in control and therefore the counterparty may exercise certain rights under the agreement upon the closing of the merger. any such counterparty may request modifications of its respective agreements as a condition to granting a waiver or consent under its agreement. there is no assurance that such counterparties will not exercise their rights under the agreements, including termination rights where available, that the exercise of any such rights will not result in a material adverse effect or that any modifications of such agreements will not result in a material adverse effect. risk factors related to our industry and real estate investments a shift in retail shopping from brick and mortar stores to e-commerce may have an adverse impact on our revenues and cash flow. many retailers operating brick and mortar stores have made e-commerce sales a vital piece of their business. although many of the retailers in our shopping centers either provide services or sell groceries, such that their customer base does not have a tendency toward online shopping, the shift to e-commerce sales may adversely impact our retail tenants' sales causing those retailers to adjust the size or number of retail locations in the future. this shift could adversely impact our occupancy and rental rates, which would impact our revenues and cash flows. downturns in the retail industry likely will have a direct adverse impact on our revenues and cash flow. our properties consist primarily of grocery-anchored shopping centers. our performance therefore is generally linked to economic conditions in the market for retail space. the market for retail space could be adversely affected by any of the following: weakness in the national, regional and local economies, which could adversely impact consumer spending and retail sales and in turn tenant demand for space and lead to increased store closings; adverse financial conditions for grocery and retail anchors; continued consolidation in the retail sector; 10 excess amount of retail space in our markets; reduction in the demand by tenants to occupy our shopping centers as a result of reduced consumer demand for certain retail categories; the growth of super-centers and warehouse club retailers, such as those operated by wal-mart and costco, and their adverse effect on traditional grocery chains; the impact of changing energy costs on consumers and its consequential effect on retail spending; and consequences of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attack against, the united states. to the extent that any of these conditions occur, they are likely to impact market rents for retail space, occupancy in the operating portfolio, our ability to sell, acquire or develop properties, and our cash available for distributions to stock and unit holders. our revenues and cash flow could be adversely affected if economic or market conditions deteriorate where our properties are geographically concentrated, which may impede our ability to generate sufficient income to pay expenses and maintain our properties. the economic conditions in markets in which our properties are concentrated greatly influence our financial performance. during the year ended december 31, 2016 , our properties in california , florida , and texas accounted for 31.0% , 12.1% , and 10.3% , respectively, of our net operating income from consolidated properties plus our pro-rata share from unconsolidated properties ("pro-rata basis"). our revenues and cash available to pay expenses, maintain our properties, and for distributions to stock and unit holders could be adversely affected by this geographic concentration if market conditions, such as supply of or demand for retail space, deteriorate in california , florida , or texas relative to other geographic areas. our success depends on the success and continued presence of our anchor tenants. anchor tenants (those occupying 10,000 square feet or more) occupy large amounts of square footage, pay a significant portion of the total rents at a property and contribute to the success of other tenants by drawing significant numbers of customers to a property. we derive significant revenues from anchor tenants such as kroger , publix , and albertsons/safeway , who accounted for 4.7% , 3.1% , and 2.7% , respectively, of our total annualized base rent on a pro-rata basis, for the year ended december 31, 2016 . our net income could be adversely affected by the loss of revenues in the event a significant tenant: becomes bankrupt or insolvent; experiences a downturn in its business; materially defaults on its leases; does not renew its leases as they expire; or renews at lower rental rates. some anchors have the right to vacate and prevent re-tenanting by paying rent for the balance of the lease term. vacated anchor space, including space owned by the anchor, can reduce rental revenues generated by the shopping center because of the loss of the departed anchor tenant's customer drawing power. if a significant tenant vacates a property, co-tenancy clauses in select centers may allow other tenants to modify or terminate their rent or lease obligations. co-tenancy clauses have several variants: they may allow a tenant to postpone a store opening if certain other tenants fail to open their stores; they may allow a tenant to close its store prior to lease expiration if another tenant closes its store prior to lease expiration; or more commonly, they may allow a tenant to pay reduced levels of rent until a certain number of tenants open their stores within the same shopping center. 11 a significant percentage of our revenues are derived from smaller shop tenants and our net income could be adversely impacted if our smaller shop tenants are not successful. a significant percentage of our revenues are derived from smaller shop tenants (those occupying less than 10,000 square feet). smaller shop tenants may be more vulnerable to negative economic conditions as they have more limited resources than larger tenants. such tenants continue to face increasing competition from non-store retailers and growing e-commerce. in addition, some of these retailers may seek to reduce their store sizes as they increasingly rely on alternative distribution channels, including e-commerce, and adjust their square footage needs accordingly. the types of smaller shop tenants vary from retail shops to service providers. if we are unable to attract the right type or mix of smaller shop tenants into our centers, our net income could be adversely impacted. at december 31, 2016 , shop space represents approximately 38% of our gla and is leased at average base rents of $31 psf. a one-percent decline in our shop space occupancy could result in a reduction to minimum rent of approximately $8.6 million . we may be unable to collect balances due from tenants in bankruptcy. although minimum rent is supported by long-term lease contracts, tenants who file bankruptcy have the legal right to reject any or all of their leases and close related stores. in the event that a tenant with a significant number of leases in our shopping centers files bankruptcy and rejects its leases, we could experience a significant reduction in our revenues and may not be able to collect all pre-petition amounts owed by that party. our real estate assets may be subject to impairment charges. our long-lived assets, primarily real estate held for investment, are carried at cost unless circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. we evaluate whether there are any indicators, including property operating performance and general market conditions, such that the value of the real estate properties (including any related amortizable intangible assets or liabilities) may not be recoverable. through the evaluation, we compare the current carrying value of the asset to the estimated undiscounted cash flows that are directly associated with the use and ultimate disposition of the asset. our estimated cash flows are based on several key assumptions, including rental rates, costs of tenant improvements, leasing commissions, anticipated holding periods, and assumptions regarding the residual value upon disposition, including the exit capitalization rate. these key assumptions are subjective in nature and could differ materially from actual results. changes in our disposition strategy or changes in the marketplace may alter the holding period of an asset or asset group, which may result in an impairment loss and such loss could be material to the company's financial condition or operating performance. to the extent that the carrying value of the asset exceeds the estimated undiscounted cash flows, an impairment loss is recognized equal to the excess of carrying value over fair value. the fair value of real estate assets is subjective and is determined through comparable sales information and other market data if available, or through use of an income approach such as the direct capitalization method or the traditional discounted cash flow approach. such cash flow projections take into account expected future operating income, trends and prospects, as well as the effects of demand, competition and other relevant criteria, and therefore are subject to management judgment. changes in those factors could impact the determination of fair value. in estimating the fair value of undeveloped land, we generally use market data and comparable sales information. these subjective assessments have a direct impact on our net income because recording an impairment charge results in an immediate negative adjustment to net income. there can be no assurance that we will not take additional charges in the future related to the impairment of our assets. any future impairment could have a material adverse effect on our net income in the period in which the charge is taken. adverse global market and economic conditions could cause us to recognize impairment charges or otherwise harm our performance. we are unable to predict the timing, severity, and length of adverse market and economic conditions. adverse market and economic conditions may impede our ability to generate sufficient operating cash flow to pay expenses, maintain properties, pay distributions to our stock and unit holders, and refinance debt. during adverse periods, there may be significant uncertainty in the valuation of our properties and investments that could result in a substantial decrease in their value. no assurance can be given that we would be able to recover the current carrying amount of all of our properties and investments in the future. our failure to do so would require us to recognize impairment charges for the period in which we reached that conclusion, which could materially and adversely affect us and the market price of our common stock. 12 unsuccessful development activities or a slowdown in development activities could have a direct impact on our revenues, revenue growth, and/or net income. we actively pursue development opportunities. development activities require various government and other approvals for entitlements and any delay in such approvals may significantly delay the development process. we may not recover our investment in development projects for which approvals are not received. we incur other risks associated with development activities, including: the risk that we may be unable to lease developments to full occupancy on a timely basis; the risk that occupancy rates and rents of a completed project will not be sufficient to make the project profitable; the risk that development costs of a project may exceed original estimates, possibly making the project unprofitable; the risk that delays in the development and construction process could increase costs; the risk that we may abandon development opportunities and lose our investment in such opportunities; the risk that the size of our development pipeline will strain our capacity to complete the developments within the targeted timelines and at the expected returns on invested capital; changes in the level of future development and redevelopment activity could have an adverse impact on operating results by reducing the amount of capitalizable internal costs for development projects; and the lack of cash flow during the construction period. if we expand into new markets, we may not be successful, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. if opportunities arise, we may acquire properties in new markets. each of the risks applicable to our ability to acquire and integrate successfully and operate properties in our current markets is also applicable in new markets. in addition, we may not possess the same level of familiarity with the dynamics and market conditions of the new markets we may enter, which could adversely affect the results of our expansion into those markets, and we may be unable to achieve our desired return on our investments in new markets. if we are unsuccessful in expanding into new markets, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our acquisition activities may not produce the returns that we expect. our investment strategy includes investing in high-quality shopping centers that are leased to market-dominant grocers, category-leading anchors, specialty retailers, or restaurants located in areas with high barriers to entry and above average household incomes and population densities. the acquisition of properties and/or companies entails risks that include, but are not limited to, the following, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to meet our obligations: properties we acquire may fail to achieve the occupancy or rental rates we project, within the time frames we estimate, which may result in the properties' failure to achieve the returns we projected; our pre-acquisition evaluation of the physical condition of each new investment may not detect certain defects or identify necessary repairs until after the property is acquired, which could significantly increase our total acquisition costs or decrease cash flow from the property; our investigation of a company, property or building prior to our acquisition, and any representations we may receive from such seller, may fail to reveal various liabilities, which could reduce the cash flow from the acquisition or increase our acquisition costs; our estimate of the costs to improve, reposition or redevelop a property may prove to be too low, or the time we estimate to complete the improvement, repositioning or redevelopment may be too short, either of which could result in the property failing to achieve the returns we have projected, either temporarily or for a longer time; we may not recover our costs from an unsuccessful acquisition; our acquisition activities may distract our management and generate significant costs; and we may not be able to integrate an acquisition into our existing operations successfully. we may experience difficulty or delay in renewing leases or re-leasing space. we derive most of our revenue from rent received from our tenants. we are subject to the risks that, upon expiration or termination of leases, leases for space in our properties may not be renewed, space may not be re-leased, or the terms of renewal or re-lease, including the cost of required renovations or concessions to tenants, may be less favorable than current lease terms. as a result, our results of operations and our net income could be adversely impacted. 13 we may be unable to sell properties when appropriate because real estate investments are illiquid. real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. our inability to respond promptly to unfavorable changes in the performance of our investments could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our obligations and make distributions to our stock and unit holders. certain of the properties in our portfolio are subject to ground leases; if we are found to be in breach of a ground lease or are unable to renew a ground lease, we could be materially and adversely affected. we have 24 properties, in our portfolio of 307 properties, that are either completely or partially on land subject to ground leases with third parties. accordingly, we only own long-term leasehold or similar interest in those properties. if we are found to be in breach of a ground lease, we could lose our interest in the improvements and the right to operate the property that is subject to the ground lease. in addition, unless we can purchase a fee interest in the underlying land or extend the terms of these leases before or at their expiration, as to which no assurance can be given, we will lose our interest in the improvements and the right to operate such properties. the existing lease terms, including renewal options, were taken into consideration when making our investment decisions. the purchase price and subsequent improvements are being depreciated over the shorter of the remaining life of the ground leases or the useful life of the underlying assets. if we were to lose the right to operate a property due to a breach or not exercising renewal options of the ground lease, we would be unable to derive income from such property, which would impair the value of our investments, and materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. geographic concentration of our properties makes our business vulnerable to natural disasters, severe weather conditions and climate change, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and operating results. a significant portion of our property gross leasable area is located in areas that are susceptible to earthquakes, tropical storms, hurricanes, tornadoes, wildfires, sea-level rise, and other natural disasters and impacts of climate change. as of december 31, 2016 , approximately 23.3% , 15.3% , and 11.4% of our property gross leasable area, on a pro-rata basis, was located in california , florida , and texas , respectively. intense weather conditions during the last decade have caused our cost of property insurance to increase significantly. we recognize that the frequency and / or intensity of extreme weather events, sea-level rise, and other climatic changes may continue to increase, and as a result, our exposure to these events could increase. these weather conditions may also disrupt our business and the business of our tenants, which could affect the ability of some tenants to pay rent and may reduce the willingness of residents to remain in or move to the affected area. therefore, as a result of the geographic concentration of our properties, we face risks, including higher costs, such as uninsured property losses and higher insurance premiums, and disruptions to our business and the businesses of our tenants. an uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the insurance coverage on our properties could subject us to loss of capital or revenue on those properties. we carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, extended coverage, rental loss, and environmental insurance for our properties with policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties. we believe that the insurance carried on our properties is adequate and consistent with industry standards. there are, however, some types of losses, such as losses from hurricanes, terrorism, wars or earthquakes, for which the insurance levels carried may not be sufficient to fully cover catastrophic losses impacting multiple properties. in addition, tenants generally are required to indemnify and hold us harmless from liabilities resulting from injury to persons or damage to personal or real property, on or off the premises, due to activities conducted by tenants or their agents on the properties (including without limitation any environmental contamination), and at the tenant's expense, to obtain and keep in full force during the term of the lease, liability and property damage insurance policies. however, our tenants may not properly maintain their insurance policies or have the ability to pay the deductibles associated with such policies. should a loss occur that is uninsured or in an amount exceeding the combined aggregate limits for the policies noted above, or in the event of a loss that is subject to a substantial deductible under an insurance policy, we could lose all or part of our capital invested in, and anticipated revenue from, such properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to make distributions to stock and unit holders. loss of our key personnel could adversely affect our business and operations. we depend on the efforts of our key executive personnel. although we have developed a succession plan and believe qualified replacements could be found for our key executives, the loss of their services could adversely affect our business and operations. 14 we face competition from numerous sources, including other reits and other real estate owners. the ownership of shopping centers is highly fragmented. we face competition from other reits and well capitalized institutional investors, as well as from numerous small owners in the acquisition, ownership, and leasing of shopping centers. we also compete to develop shopping centers with other reits engaged in development activities as well as with local, regional, and national real estate developers. this competition may: reduce the number of properties available for acquisition or development; increase the cost of properties available for acquisition or development; hinder our ability to attract and retain tenants, leading to increased vacancy rates and/or reduced rents; and adversely affect our ability to minimize our expenses of operation. if we cannot successfully compete in our targeted markets, our cash flow, and therefore distributions to stock and unit holders, may be adversely affected. costs of environmental remediation could reduce our cash flow available for distribution to stock and unit holders. under various federal, state and local laws, an owner or manager of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on the property. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. the cost of any required remediation could exceed the value of the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner or the responsible party. the presence of, or the failure to properly remediate, hazardous or toxic substances may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease a contaminated property or to use the property as collateral for a loan. any of these developments could reduce cash flow and our ability to make distributions to stock and unit holders. compliance with the americans with disabilities act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make unintended expenditures. all of our properties are required to comply with the americans with disabilities act ( ada ), which generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. compliance with ada requirements could require removal of access barriers, and noncompliance could result in imposition of fines by the u.s. government or an award of damages to private litigants, or both. while the tenants to whom we lease properties are obligated by law to comply with the ada provisions, and typically under tenant leases are obligated to cover costs associated with compliance, if required changes involve greater expenditures than anticipated, or if the changes must be made on a more accelerated basis than anticipated, the ability of these tenants to cover costs could be adversely affected. in addition, we are required to operate the properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental entities and become applicable to the properties. we may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with these requirements, and these expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our financial obligations and make distributions to our stock and unit holders. if we do not maintain the security of tenant-related information, we could incur substantial costs and become subject to litigation. we receive certain information about our tenants that depends upon secure transmissions of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. a compromise of our security systems that results in information being obtained by unauthorized persons could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties and require us to expend significant resources related to our information security systems. such disruptions could adversely affect our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions and manage our business; cyber security attacks and other disruptions could harm our ability to run our business. we face risks associated with security breaches, whether through (i) cyber attacks or cyber intrusions, (ii) malware or computer viruses and (iii) people with access or who gain access to our systems, and other significant disruptions of our computer networks and related systems. the risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. our computer networks and related systems are essential to the operation of our business and our ability to perform day-to-day operations. although we make efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our computer networks and related systems, and we have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. a security breach or other disruption involving our computer networks and related systems 15 could significantly disrupt the proper functioning of our networks and systems and, as a result, disrupt our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. risk factors related to our co-investment partnerships and acquisition structure we do not have voting control over our joint venture investments, so we are unable to ensure that our objectives will be pursued. we have invested substantial capital as a partner in a number of joint venture investments for the acquisition or development of properties. these investments involve risks not present in a wholly-owned project as we do not have voting control over the ventures, although we do have approval rights over major decisions. the other partner may (i) have interests or goals that are inconsistent with our interests or goals or (ii) otherwise impede our objectives. the other partner also may become insolvent or bankrupt. these factors could limit the return that we receive from such investments or cause our cash flows to be lower than our estimates. the termination of our co-investment partnerships could adversely affect our cash flow, operating results, and our ability to make distributions to stock and unit holders. if co-investment partnerships owning a significant number of properties were dissolved for any reason, we would lose the asset and property management fees from these co-investment partnerships, which could adversely affect our operating results and our cash available for distribution to stock and unit holders. risk factors related to funding strategies and capital structure higher market capitalization rates for our properties could adversely impact our ability to sell properties and fund developments and acquisitions, and could dilute earnings. as part of our funding strategy, we sell operating properties that no longer meet our investment standards or those with a limited future growth profile. these sales proceeds are used to fund the construction of new developments, redevelopments and acquisitions. an increase in market capitalization rates could cause a reduction in the value of centers identified for sale, which would have an adverse impact on the amount of cash generated. in order to meet the cash requirements of our development program, we may be required to sell more properties than initially planned, which could have a negative impact on our earnings. additionally, the sale of properties resulting in significant tax gains could require higher distributions to our stockholders or payment of additional income taxes in order to maintain our reit status. it would be our intent to utilize 1031 exchanges to mitigate taxable income, however there can be no assurance that we will identify properties that meet our investment objectives for acquisitions. we depend on external sources of capital, which may not be available in the future on favorable terms or at all. to qualify as a reit, the parent company must, among other things, distribute to its stockholders each year at least 90% of its reit taxable income (excluding any net capital gains). because of these distribution requirements, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs with income from operations. we therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. our access to debt depends on our credit rating, the willingness of creditors to lend to us and conditions in the capital markets. in addition to finding creditors willing to lend to us, we are dependent upon our joint venture partners to contribute their pro rata share of any amount needed to repay or refinance existing debt when lenders reduce the amount of debt our joint ventures are eligible to refinance. in addition, our existing debt arrangements also impose covenants that limit our flexibility in obtaining other financing. additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of stockholders' interests and additional debt financing may substantially increase our degree of leverage. without access to external sources of capital, we would be required to pay outstanding debt with our operating cash flows and proceeds from property sales. our operating cash flows may not be sufficient to pay our outstanding debt as it comes due and real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly at a return we believe is appropriate. if we are required to deleverage our business with operating cash flows and proceeds from property sales, we may be forced to reduce the amount of, or eliminate altogether, our distributions to stock and unit holders or refrain from making investments in our business. 16 our debt financing may adversely affect our business and financial condition. our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our indebtedness will depend primarily on our future performance, which to a certain extent is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. in addition, we do not expect to generate sufficient funds from operations to make balloon principal payments on our debt when due. if we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, we may be forced (i) to dispose of properties, which might result in losses, or (ii) to obtain financing at unfavorable terms, either of which could reduce the cash flow available for distributions to stock and unit holders. if we cannot make required mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property securing the mortgage. covenants in our debt agreements may restrict our operating activities and adversely affect our financial condition. our unsecured notes, unsecured term loan, and unsecured line of credit contain customary covenants, including compliance with financial ratios, such as ratio of total debt to gross asset value and fixed charge coverage ratio. fixed charge coverage ratio is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("ebitda") divided by the sum of interest expense and scheduled mortgage principal paid to our lenders plus dividends paid to our preferred stockholders. our debt arrangements also restrict our ability to enter into a transaction that would result in a change of control. these covenants may limit our operational flexibility and our acquisition activities. moreover, if we breach any of the covenants in our debt agreements, and do not cure the breach within the applicable cure period, our lenders could require us to repay the debt immediately, even in the absence of a payment default. many of our debt arrangements, including our unsecured notes, unsecured term loan, and unsecured line of credit are cross-defaulted, which means that the lenders under those debt arrangements can put us in default and require immediate repayment of their debt if we breach and fail to cure a default under certain of our other material debt obligations. as a result, any default under our debt covenants could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, our results of operations, our ability to meet our obligations, and the market value of our stock. increases in interest rates would cause our borrowing costs to rise and negatively impact our results of operations. although a significant amount of our outstanding debt has fixed interest rates, we do borrow funds at variable interest rates under our credit facilities. as of december 31, 2016 , 1.3% of our outstanding debt was variable rate debt. increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense on any variable rate debt to the extent we have not hedged our exposure to changes in interest rates. in addition, increases in interest rates will affect the terms under which we refinance our existing debt as it matures, to the extent we have not hedged our exposure to changes in interest rates. this would reduce our future earnings and cash flows, which could adversely affect our ability to service our debt and meet our other obligations and also could reduce the amount we are able to distribute to our stock and unit holders. hedging activity may expose us to risks, including the risks that a counterparty will not perform and that the hedge will not yield the economic benefits we anticipate, which could adversely affect us. from time to time, we manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements that involve risk, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, and that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes. there can be no assurance that our hedging arrangements will qualify for hedge accounting or that our hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations. should we desire to terminate a hedging agreement, there could be significant costs and cash requirements involved to fulfill our obligations under the hedging agreement. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. we may acquire properties or portfolios of properties through tax-deferred contribution transactions, which could result in stockholder dilution and limit our ability to sell such assets. we may acquire properties or portfolios of properties through tax deferred contribution transactions in exchange for partnership interests in our operating partnership, which may result in stockholder dilution. this acquisition structure may have the effect of, among other things, reducing the amount of tax depreciation we could deduct over the tax life of the acquired properties, and may require that we agree to protect the contributors' ability to defer recognition of taxable gain through restrictions on our ability to dispose of the acquired properties and/or the allocation of partnership debt to the contributors to maintain their tax bases. these restrictions could limit our ability to sell an asset at a time, or on terms, that would be favorable absent such restrictions. 17 risk factors related to the market price for our debt and equity securities changes in economic and market conditions could adversely affect the market price of our securities. the market price of our debt and equity securities may fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, many of which are out of our control, including: actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates; publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry in general and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other reit's; the ability of our tenants to pay rent and meet their other obligations to us under current lease terms and our ability to re-lease space as leases expire; increases in market interest rates that drive purchasers of our stock to demand a higher dividend yield; changes in market valuations of similar companies; adverse market reaction to any additional debt we incur in the future; any future issuances of equity securities; additions or departures of key management personnel; strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; actions by institutional stockholders; changes in our dividend payments; potential tax law changes on reits; speculation in the press or investment community; and general market and economic conditions. these factors may cause the market price of our securities to decline, regardless of our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. it is impossible to ensure that the market price of our securities, including our common stock, will not fall in the future. a decrease in the market price of our common stock could reduce our ability to raise additional equity in the public markets. selling common stock at a decreased market price would have a dilutive impact on existing stockholders. there is no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends at historical rates. our ability to continue to pay dividends at historical rates or to increase our dividend rate will depend on a number of factors, including, among others, the following: our financial condition and results of future operations; the terms of our loan covenants; and our ability to acquire, finance, develop or redevelop and lease additional properties at attractive rates. if we do not maintain or periodically increase the dividend on our common stock, it could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and other securities. changes in accounting standards may adversely impact our financial results. the financial accounting standards board ("fasb"), in conjunction with the sec, has several key projects recently completed or on their agenda that could impact how we currently account for our material transactions, including lease accounting and other convergence projects with the international accounting standards board. the largest projects, revenue from contracts with customers and leases, have been issued and will be adopted by the company by their effective dates, as further described in note 1. we do not currently expect the adoption of the revenue from contracts with customers standard to have a material impact, but are still completing our evaluation. the leases standard is expected to have an impact, specifically to require all of our operating leases for office, ground and equipment leases to be recorded on the balance sheet. additionally, a material change is expected as it relates to accounting for initial direct costs to obtain a lease with a tenant. previously capitalizable internal leasing salaries will no longer be capitalizable under the new standard. 18 risk factors related to federal income tax laws if the parent company fails to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, it would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. we believe that the parent company qualifies for taxation as a reit for federal income tax purposes, and we plan to operate so that we can continue to meet the requirements for taxation as a reit. if the parent company continues to qualify as a reit, it generally will not be subject to federal income tax on income that we distribute to our stockholders. many reit requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. the determination that the parent company is a reit requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances, some of which may not be totally within our control and some of which involve questions of interpretation. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income must come from specific passive sources, like rent, that are itemized in the reit tax laws. there can be no assurance that the internal revenue service ( irs ) or a court would agree with the positions we have taken in interpreting the reit requirements. we are also required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income, excluding capital gains. the fact that we hold many of our assets through co-investment partnerships and their subsidiaries further complicates the application of the reit requirements. furthermore, congress and the irs might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings, that make it more difficult, or impossible, for the parent company to remain qualified as a reit. also, unless the irs granted relief under certain statutory provisions, the parent company would remain disqualified as a reit for four years following the year it first failed to qualify. if the parent company failed to qualify as a reit (currently and/or with respect to any tax years for which the statute of limitations has not expired), we would have to pay significant income taxes, reducing cash available to pay dividends, which would likely have a significant adverse effect on the value of our securities. in addition, we would no longer be required to pay any dividends to stockholders. although we believe that the parent company qualifies as a reit, we cannot assure you that the parent company will continue to qualify or remain qualified as a reit for tax purposes. even if the parent company qualifies as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. for example, if we have net income from prohibited transactions, that income will be subject to a 100% tax. in general, prohibited transactions include sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. the determination as to whether a particular sale is a prohibited transaction depends on the facts and circumstances related to that sale. while we have undertaken a significant number of asset sales in recent years, we do not believe that those sales should be considered prohibited transactions, but there can be no assurance that the irs would not contend otherwise. dividends paid by reits generally do not qualify for reduced tax rates. subject to limited exceptions, dividends paid by reits (other than distributions designated as capital gain dividends or returns of capital) are not eligible for reduced rates for qualified dividends paid by "c" corporations and are taxable at ordinary income tax rates. the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in reits to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-reit corporations that pay dividends, which could adversely affect the value of the shares of reits, including the shares of our capital stock. foreign stockholders may be subject to u.s. federal income tax on gain recognized on a disposition of our common stock if we do not qualify as a "domestically controlled" reit. a foreign person disposing of a u.s. real property interest, including shares of a u.s. corporation whose assets consist principally of u.s. real property interests is generally subject to u.s. federal income tax on any gain recognized on the disposition. this tax does not apply, however, to the disposition of stock in a reit if the reit is "domestically controlled." in general, we will be a domestically controlled reit if at all times during the five-year period ending on the applicable stockholder's disposition of our stock, less than 50% in value of our stock was held directly or indirectly by non-u.s. persons. if we were to fail to qualify as a domestically controlled reit, gain recognized by a foreign stockholder on a disposition of our common stock would be subject to u.s. federal income tax unless our common stock was traded on an established securities market and the foreign stockholder did not at any time during a specified testing period directly or indirectly own more than 10% of our outstanding common stock. legislative or other actions affecting reits could have a negative effect on us. the rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the irs and the u.s. department of the treasury. changes to the tax laws, with or without retroactive application, could adversely affect our investors or us. we cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect our investors 19 or us. new legislation, treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify as a reit or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification, or the federal income tax consequences of an investment in us. also, the law relating to the tax treatment of other entities, or an investment in other entities, could change, making an investment in such other entities more attractive relative to an investment in a reit. complying with reit requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities. the reit provisions of the code limit our ability to hedge our liabilities. generally, income from a hedging transaction that constitutes qualifying income for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests applicable to reits, does not constitute gross income for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests, provided that we properly identify the hedging transaction pursuant to the applicable sections of the code and treasury regulations. to the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, or fail to make the proper tax identifications, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both gross income tests. as a result of these rules, we may need to limit our use of otherwise advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a taxable reit subsidiary, or trs. risk factors related to our ownership limitations and the florida business corporation act restrictions on the ownership of the parent company's capital stock to preserve its reit status could delay or prevent a change in control. ownership of more than 7% by value of our outstanding capital stock is prohibited, with certain exceptions, by the parent company's articles of incorporation, for the purpose of maintaining its qualification as a reit. this 7% limitation may discourage a change in control and may also (i) deter tender offers for our capital stock, which offers may be attractive to our stockholders, or (ii) limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their capital stock that might otherwise exist if an investor attempted to assemble a block in excess of 7% of our outstanding capital stock or to affect a change in control. the issuance of the parent company's capital stock could delay or prevent a change in control. the parent company's articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 30,000,000 shares of preferred stock and 10,000,000 shares of special common stock and to establish the preferences and rights of any shares issued. the issuance of preferred stock or special common stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. the provisions of the florida business corporation act regarding affiliated transactions could also deter potential acquisitions by preventing the acquiring party from consummating a merger or other extraordinary corporate transaction without the approval of our disinterested stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to two significant components of interest rate risk: we have a line commitment, as further described in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements, which has a variable interest rate that is based upon an annual rate of libor plus 0.925% . libor rates charged on our line change monthly. the spread on the line is dependent upon maintaining specific credit ratings. if our credit ratings are downgraded, the spread on the line would increase, resulting in higher interest costs. the interest rate spread based on our credit rating ranges from libor plus 0.875% to libor plus 1.550%. we are also exposed to changes in interest rates when we refinance our existing long-term fixed rate debt. the objective of our interest rate risk management program is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows. to achieve these objectives, we borrow primarily at fixed interest rates and may enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps, or treasury locks in order to mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument. we do not enter into derivative or interest rate transactions for speculative purposes. our interest rate swaps are structured solely for the purpose of interest rate protection. we continuously monitor the capital markets and evaluate our ability to issue new debt to repay maturing debt or fund our commitments. based upon the current capital markets, our current credit ratings, our current capacity under our unsecured credit facilities, and the number of high quality, unencumbered properties that we own which could collateralize borrowings, we expect that we will be able to successfully issue new secured or unsecured debt to fund these debt obligations. our interest rate risk is monitored using a variety of techniques. the table below presents the principal cash flows, weighted average interest rates of remaining debt, and the fair value of total debt as of december 31, 2016 (dollars in thousands). the table is presented by year of expected maturity to evaluate the expected cash flows and sensitivity to interest rate changes. although the average interest rate for variable rate debt is included in the table, those rates represent rates that existed as of december 31, 2016 and are subject to change on a monthly basis. further, the table below incorporates only those exposures that exist as of december 31, 2016 and does not consider exposures or positions that could arise after that date. since firm commitments are not presented, the table has limited predictive value. as a result, our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to interest rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise during the period, our hedging strategies at that time, and actual interest rates. 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 thereafter total fair value fixed rate debt $ 91,618 62,186 110,205 239,047 288,970 840,066 1,632,092 1,699,730 average interest rate for all fixed rate debt (1) 4.34 % 4.27 % 3.99 % 3.67 % 3.25 % 3.78 % variable rate libor debt $ 15,000 15,000 14,970 average interest rate for all variable rate debt (1) % % 1.41 % % % % (1) average interest rates at the end of each year presented. 65risk factors below. the following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto of regency centers corporation and regency centers, l.p. appearing elsewhere herein. we do not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to such forward-looking statements to reflect events or uncertainties after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of uncertain events. part i item 1. business regency centers began its operations as a publicly-traded reit in 1993, and, as of december 31, 2017 , had full or partial ownership interests in 426 retail properties primarily anchored by market leading grocery stores. our properties are principally located in affluent and infill trade areas of the united states, and contain 53.9 million square feet ("sf") of gross leasable area ("gla"). our pro-rata ownership share of this gla is 44.0 million square feet. all of our operating, investing, and financing activities are performed through the operating partnership, our wholly-owned subsidiaries, and through our co-investment partnerships. on march 1, 2017, regency completed its merger with equity one inc. ("equity one"), whereby equity one merged with and into regency, with regency continuing as the surviving public company. under the terms of the merger agreement, each equity one stockholder received 0.45 of a newly issued share of regency common stock for each share of equity one common stock owned immediately prior to the effective time of the merger resulting in approximately 65.5 million shares being issued to effect the merger. as part of the merger, regency acquired 121 properties representing 16.0 million sf of gla, including 8 properties held through co-investment partnerships. our mission is to be the preeminent national shopping center owner, operator, and developer. our strategy is to: own and manage an unequaled portfolio of high-quality neighborhood and community shopping centers anchored by market leading grocers and located in affluent suburban and near urban trade areas in the country's most desirable metro areas. we expect that this combination will produce highly desirable and attractive centers with best-in-class retailers. these centers should command higher rental and occupancy rates resulting in excellent prospects to grow net operating income ("noi"); maintain an industry leading and disciplined development and redevelopment platform to deliver exceptional retail centers at higher returns as compared to acquisitions; support our business activities with a strong balance sheet; and engage a talented, dedicated team of employees, who are guided by regency's strong values and special culture, which are aligned with shareholder interests. key goals to achieve our strategy are to: sustain superior same property noi growth compared to our shopping center peers; develop and redevelop high quality shopping centers at attractive returns on investment; maintain a conservative balance sheet providing financial flexibility to cost effectively fund investment opportunities and debt maturities on a favorable basis, and to weather economic downturns; attract and motivate an exceptional team of employees who operate efficiently and are recognized as industry leaders; and generate reliable growth in earnings per share, funds from operations per share, and most importantly total shareholder returns that consistently rank at or near the top of shopping center reits. sustainability we believe sustainability is in the best interest of our tenants, investors, employees, and the communities in which we operate and are committed to reducing our environmental impact, including energy and water use, greenhouse gas emissions, and waste. we believe this commitment is not only the right thing to do, but also assists the company in achieving key strategic objectives in operations and development. we are committed to transparency with regard to our sustainability performance, risks and opportunities, and will continue to increase disclosure using industry accepted reporting frameworks. we currently have a green star rating from the global real estate sustainability benchmark, or gresb, for the third 1 consecutive year. more information about our sustainability strategy, goals, performance, and formal disclosures are available on our website at www.regencycenters.com. competition we are among the largest owners of shopping centers in the nation based on revenues, number of properties, gla, and market capitalization. there are numerous companies and individuals engaged in the ownership, development, acquisition, and operation of shopping centers that compete with us in our targeted markets, including grocery store chains that also anchor some of our shopping centers. this results in competition for attracting anchor tenants, as well as the acquisition of existing shopping centers and new development sites. we believe that our competitive advantages are driven by: our locations within our market areas; the design and high quality of our shopping centers; the strong demographics surrounding our shopping centers; our relationships with our anchor tenants and our side-shop and out-parcel retailers; our practice of maintaining and renovating our shopping centers; and our ability to source and develop new shopping centers. employees our corporate headquarters are located at one independent drive, suite 114, jacksonville, florida. we presently maintain 21 market offices nationwide, including our corporate headquarters, where we conduct management, leasing, construction, and investment activities. we have 446 employees throughout the united states and we believe that our relations with our employees are good. compliance with governmental regulations under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, we may be liable for the cost to remove or remediate certain hazardous or toxic substances at our shopping centers. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. the cost of required remediation and the owner's liability for remediation could exceed the value of the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner. the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or borrow using the property as collateral. although we have a number of properties that could require or are currently undergoing varying levels of environmental remediation, known environmental remediation is not currently expected to have a material financial impact on us due to insurance programs designed to mitigate the cost of remediation, various state-regulated programs that shift the responsibility and cost to the state, and existing accrued liabilities for remediation. executive officers our executive officers are appointed each year by our board of directors. each of our executive officers has been employed by us for more than five years. name age title executive officer in position shown since martin e. stein, jr. 65 chairman and chief executive officer 1993 lisa palmer 50 president and chief financial officer 2016 (1) dan m. chandler, iii 50 executive vice president of investments 2016 (2) james d. thompson 62 executive vice president of operations 2016 (3) (1) ms. palmer assumed the responsibilities of president, effective january 1, 2016 in addition to her responsibilities as chief financial officer, which she has held since january 2013. prior to that, ms. palmer served as senior vice president of capital markets since 2003 and has been with the company since 1996. (2) mr. chandler assumed the role of executive vice president of investments on january 1, 2016 and previously served as managing director since 2006. prior to that, mr. chandler served in various investment officer positions since the merger with pacific retail trust in 1999. (3) mr. thompson assumed the role of executive vice president of operations on january 1, 2016 and previously served as our managing director - east since our initial public offering in 1993. prior to that time, mr. thompson served as executive vice president of our predecessor real estate division beginning in 1981. 2 company website access and sec filings our website may be accessed at www.regencycenters.com . all of our filings with the securities and exchange commission can be accessed free of charge through our website promptly after filing; however, in the event that the website is inaccessible, we will provide paper copies of our most recent annual report on form 10-k, the most recent quarterly report on form 10-q, current reports filed or furnished on form 8-k, and all related amendments, excluding exhibits, free of charge upon request. these filings are also accessible on the sec's website at www.sec.gov . general information our registrar and stock transfer agent is broadridge corporate issuer solutions, inc. ( broadridge ), philadelphia, pa. we offer a dividend reinvestment plan ( drip ) that enables our shareholders to reinvest dividends automatically, as well as to make voluntary cash payments toward the purchase of additional shares. for more information, contact broadridge toll free at (855) 449-0975 or our shareholder relations department at (904) 598-7000. our independent registered public accounting firm is kpmg llp, jacksonville, florida. our legal counsel is foley &amp; lardner llp, jacksonville, florida. annual meeting of shareholders our 2018 annual meeting of shareholders will be held at the ponte vedra inn and club, 200 ponte vedra blvd., ponte vedra beach, florida, at 10:30 a.m. on thursday, april 26, 2018 . defined terms we use certain non-gaap performance measures, in addition to the required gaap presentations, as we believe these measures improve the understanding of the company's operational results. we manage our entire real estate portfolio without regard to ownership structure, although certain decisions impacting properties owned through partnerships require partner approval. therefore, we believe presenting our pro-rata share of certain operating metrics regardless of ownership structure, along with other non-gaap measures, makes comparisons of other reits' operating results to the company's more meaningful. we continually evaluate the usefulness, relevance, limitations, and calculation of our reported non-gaap performance measures to determine how best to provide relevant information to the public, and thus such reported measures could change. the following terms, as defined, are commonly used by management and the investing public to understand and evaluate our operational results: same property information is provided for retail operating properties that were owned and operated for the entirety of both calendar year periods being compared and excludes non-same properties and properties in development. a non-same property is a property acquired, sold, or a development completion during either calendar year period being compared. non-retail properties and corporate activities, including activities of our captive insurance company, are part of non-same property. a retail operating property is any property where the majority of the income is generated from retail uses, and is not termed a property in development. property in development includes land or retail operating properties in various stages of development and redevelopment including active pre-development activities. development completion is a development project that is deemed complete upon the earliest of: (i) 90% of total estimated net development costs have been incurred and percent leased equals or exceeds 95%, or (ii) the project features at least two years of anchor operations, or (iii) three years have passed since the start of construction. once deemed complete, the property is termed a retail operating property. pro-rata information includes 100% of our consolidated properties plus our economic share (based on our ownership interest) in our unconsolidated real estate investment partnerships. the pro-rata information is prepared on a basis consistent with the comparable consolidated amounts and is intended to more accurately reflect our proportionate economic interest in the operating results of properties in our portfolio. we do not control the unconsolidated investment partnerships, and the pro-rata presentations of the assets and liabilities, and revenues and expenses do not represent our legal claim to such items. the partners are entitled to profit or loss allocations and distributions of cash flows according to the operating agreements, which provide for such 3 allocations according to their invested capital. our share of invested capital establishes the ownership interests we use to prepare our pro-rata share. the presentation of pro-rata information has limitations which include, but are not limited to, the following: the amounts shown on the individual line items were derived by applying our overall economic ownership interest percentage determined when applying the equity method of accounting or allocating noncontrolling interests, and do not necessarily represent our legal claim to the assets and liabilities, or the revenues and expenses; and other companies in our industry may calculate their pro-rata interest differently, limiting the comparability of pro-rata information. because of these limitations, the pro-rata financial information should not be considered independently or as a substitute for our financial statements as reported under gaap. we compensate for these limitations by relying primarily on our gaap financial statements, using the pro-rata information as a supplement. adjusted ebitda is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, real estate gains and losses, development and acquisition pursuit costs, straight line rental income, and above and below market rent amortization. fixed charge coverage ratio is defined as adjusted ebitda divided by the sum of the gross interest and scheduled mortgage principal paid to our lenders plus dividends paid to our preferred stockholders. net operating income ("noi") is the sum of minimum rent, percentage rent and recoveries from tenants and other income, less operating and maintenance, real estate taxes, and provision for doubtful accounts. noi excludes straight-line rental income and expense, above and below market rent and ground rent amortization and other fees. the company also provides disclosure of noi excluding termination fees, which excludes both termination fee income and expenses. nareit funds from operations ("nareit ffo") is a commonly used measure of reit performance, which the national association of real estate investment trusts ("nareit") defines as net income, computed in accordance with gaap, excluding gains and losses from sales of depreciable property, net of tax, excluding operating real estate impairments, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. we compute nareit ffo for all periods presented in accordance with nareit's definition. many companies use different depreciable lives and methods, and real estate values historically fluctuate with market conditions. since nareit ffo excludes depreciation and amortization and gains and losses from depreciable property dispositions, and impairments, it provides a performance measure that, when compared year over year, reflects the impact on operations from trends in occupancy rates, rental rates, operating costs, acquisition and development activities, and financing costs. this provides a perspective of our financial performance not immediately apparent from net income determined in accordance with gaap. thus, nareit ffo is a supplemental non-gaap financial measure of our operating performance, which does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with gaap; and, therefore, should not be considered a substitute measure of cash flows from operations. the company provides a reconciliation of net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders to nareit ffo. core ffo is an additional performance measure used by regency as the computation of nareit ffo includes certain non-comparable items that affect the company's period-over-period performance. core ffo excludes from nareit ffo: (a) transaction related income or expense; (b) impairments on land; (c) gains or losses from the early extinguishment of debt; and (d) other amounts as they occur. the company provides a reconciliation of nareit ffo to core ffo. 4 item 1a. risk factors risk factors related to the retail industry economic and market conditions may adversely affect the retail industry and consequently reduce our revenues and cash flow, and increase our operating expenses. our properties are leased primarily to retail tenants from whom we derive most of our revenue in the form of minimum rent, expense recoveries and other income. therefore, our performance and operating results are directly linked to the economic and market conditions occurring in the retail industry. we are subject to the risks, that upon expiration, leases for space in our properties are not renewed by existing tenants, vacant space is not leased to new tenants, or demand new lease terms, including costs for renovations or concessions. the market for leasing retail space in our properties may be adversely affected by any of the following: changes in national, regional and local economic conditions; deterioration in the competitiveness and creditworthiness of our retail tenants; increased competition from the use of e-commerce by retailers and consumers as well as other concepts such as super-stores and warehouse clubs; tenant bankruptcies and subsequent rejections of our leases; reductions in consumer spending and retail sales; reduced tenant demand for retail space; oversupply of retail space; reduced consumer demand for certain retail categories; consolidation within the retail sector; increased operating costs; perceptions by retailers and shoppers of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of our properties; casualties, natural disasters and terrorist attacks; and armed conflicts against the united states. to the extent that any of these conditions occur they are likely to impact the retail industry, our retail tenants, the demand and market rents for retail space, the occupancy levels of our properties, our ability to sell, acquire or develop properties, our operating results and our cash available for distributions to stock and unit holders. the integration of bricks and mortar stores and e-commerce by retailers and a continued shift in retail sales towards e-commerce may adversely impact our revenues and cash flows. the recent merger of amazon.com with whole foods market, inc. highlights the increasing impact of e-commerce on retailers and changes in customer buying habits, including curbside pick-up of items ordered on line and home delivery of food kits, such as blue apron and hellofresh. retailers are considering these e-commerce trends when making decisions regarding their bricks and mortar stores and how they will compete and innovate in a rapidly changing e-commerce environment. many retailers in our shopping centers provide services or sell goods, which have historically been less likely to be purchased online; however, the continuing increase in e-commerce sales in all retail categories may cause retailers to adjust the size or number of retail locations in the future or close stores. this shift may adversely impact our occupancy and rental rates, which would impact our revenues and cash flows. changes in shopping trends as a result of the growth in e-commerce may also impact the profitability of retailers that do not adapt to changes in market conditions. these conditions may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows if we are unable to meet the needs of our tenants or if our tenants encounter financial difficulties as a result of changing market conditions. our business is dependent on perceptions by retailers and shoppers of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of our retail properties. we are dependent on perceptions by retailers or shoppers of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of our retail properties. if retailers and shoppers perceive competing retail properties and other retailing options to be safer, more convenient, or of a higher quality, our revenues may be adversely affected. changing economic and retail market conditions in geographic areas where our properties are concentrated may reduce our revenues and cash flow. economic conditions in markets where our properties are concentrated can greatly influence our financial performance. during the year ended december 31, 2017 , our properties in california, florida, and texas accounted for 30.1% , 17.3% , and 7.8% , respectively, of our noi from consolidated properties plus our pro-rata share from unconsolidated 5 properties ("pro-rata basis"). our revenues and cash flow may be adversely affected by this geographic concentration if market conditions, such as supply of or demand for retail space, deteriorate more significantly in california, florida, or texas compared to other geographic areas. our success depends on the success and continued presence of our anchor tenants. anchor tenants ("anchor tenants" or "anchors" occupying 10,000 square feet or more) occupy large stores in our shopping centers, pay a significant portion of the total rent at a property and contribute to the success of other tenants by attracting shoppers to the property. we derive significant revenues from anchor tenants such as publix , kroger , albertsons/safeway , tjx companies , and whole foods who accounted for 3.1% , 3.1% , 2.9% , 2.4% , and 2.3% , respectively, of our total annualized base rent on a pro-rata basis, for the year ended december 31, 2017 . our net income and cash flow may be adversely affected by the loss of revenues and additional costs in the event a significant anchor tenant: becomes bankrupt or insolvent; experiences a downturn in its business; materially defaults on its leases; does not renew its leases as they expire; renews at lower rental rates and/or requires a tenant improvement allowance; or renews, but reduces its store size, which results in down-time and additional tenant improvement costs to the landlord to release the vacated space. some anchors have the right to vacate their space and may prevent us from re-tenanting by continuing to comply and pay rent in accordance with their lease agreement. vacated anchor space, including space owned by the anchor, can reduce rental revenues generated by the shopping center in other spaces because of the loss of the departed anchor's customer drawing power. if a significant tenant vacates a property, co-tenancy clauses in select centers may allow other tenants to modify or terminate their rent or lease obligations. co-tenancy clauses have several variants: they may allow a tenant to postpone a store opening if certain other tenants fail to open their stores; they may allow a tenant to close its store prior to lease expiration if another tenant closes its store prior to lease expiration; or more commonly, they may allow a tenant to pay reduced levels of rent until a certain number of tenants open their stores within the same shopping center. a significant percentage of our revenues are derived from smaller shop space tenants and our net income may be adversely impacted if our smaller shop tenants are not successful. a significant percentage of our revenues are derived from smaller shop space tenants ("shop space tenants" occupying less than 10,000 square feet). shop space tenants may be more vulnerable to negative economic conditions as they have more limited resources than anchor tenants. shop space tenants are facing reductions in sales as a result of an increase in competition including from e-commerce retailers. certain shop space tenants are incorporating e-commerce into their business strategies and may seek to reduce their store sizes upon lease expiration as they adjust to and implement alternative distribution channels. the types of shop space tenants vary from retail shops and restaurants to service providers. if we are unable to attract the right type or mix of shop space tenants into our centers, our revenues and cash flow may be adversely impacted. at december 31, 2017 , shop space tenants represent approximately 36% of our gla leased at average base rents of $32 psf. a one-percent decline in our shop space occupancy may result in a reduction to minimum rent of approximately $4.7 million . we may be unable to collect balances due from tenants in bankruptcy. although minimum rent and recoveries from tenants are supported by long-term lease contracts, tenants who file bankruptcy have the legal right to reject any or all of their leases and close related stores. any unsecured claim we hold against a bankrupt tenant for unpaid rent might be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims. as a result, it is likely that we would recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims we hold. additionally, we may incur significant expense to recover our claim and to release the vacated space. in the event that a tenant with a significant number of leases in our shopping centers files bankruptcy and rejects its leases, we may experience a significant reduction in our revenues and may not be able to collect all pre-petition amounts owed by the bankrupt tenant. risk factors related to real estate investments and operations we are subject to numerous laws and regulations that may adversely affect our operations or expose us to liability. 6 our properties are subject to numerous federal, state, and local laws and regulations, some of which may conflict with one another or be subject to varying judicial or regulatory interpretations. these laws and regulations may include zoning laws, building codes, competition laws, rules and agreements, landlord-tenant laws, property tax regulations, changes in real estate assessments and other laws and regulations generally applicable to business operations. noncompliance with such laws and regulations, and any associated litigation may expose us to liability. our real estate assets may decline in value and be subject to impairment losses which may reduce our net income. our real estate properties are carried at cost unless circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. we evaluate whether there are any indicators, including property operating performance and general market conditions, such that the value of the real estate properties (including any related tangible or intangible assets or liabilities and goodwill) may not be recoverable. through the evaluation, we compare the current carrying value of the asset to the estimated undiscounted cash flows that are directly associated with the use and ultimate disposition of the asset. our estimated cash flows are based on several key assumptions, including rental rates, costs of tenant improvements, leasing commissions, anticipated holding periods, and assumptions regarding the residual value upon disposition, including the exit capitalization rate. these key assumptions are subjective in nature and may differ materially from actual results. changes in our disposition strategy or changes in the marketplace may alter the holding period of an asset or asset group, which may result in an impairment loss and such loss may be material to the company's financial condition or operating performance. to the extent that the carrying value of the asset exceeds the estimated undiscounted cash flows, an impairment loss is recognized equal to the excess of carrying value over fair value. the fair value of real estate assets is subjective and is determined through the use of comparable sales information and other market data if available, or through use of an income approach such as the direct capitalization method or the traditional discounted cash flow approach. such cash flow projections take into account expected future operating income, trends and prospects, as well as the effects of demand, competition and other relevant criteria, and therefore are subject to management judgment. changes in these factors may impact the determination of fair value. in estimating the fair value of undeveloped land, we generally use market data and comparable sales information. these subjective assessments have a direct impact on our net income because recording an impairment charge results in an immediate negative adjustment to net income, which may be material. there can be no assurance that we will not record impairment charges in the future related to our assets. we face risks associated with development, redevelopment and expansion of properties. we actively pursue opportunities for new retail development, or existing property redevelopment or expansion. development and redevelopment activities require various government and other approvals for entitlements and any delay in such approvals may significantly delay this process. we may not recover our investment in development or redevelopment projects for which approvals are not received. we are subject to other risks associated with these activities, including the following risks: we may be unable to lease developments to full occupancy on a timely basis; the occupancy rates and rents of a completed project may not be sufficient to make the project profitable; actual costs of a project may exceed original estimates, possibly making the project unprofitable; delays in the development or construction process may increase our costs; we may abandon a development opportunity and lose our investment; the size of our development pipeline may strain our labor or capital capacity to complete developments within targeted timelines and may reduce our investment returns; a reduction in the demand for new retail space may reduce our future development activities, which in turn may reduce our net operating income; changes in the level of future development activity may adversely impact our results from operations by reducing the amount of internal general overhead costs that may be capitalized; a shift in our development and acquisition focus to mixed use properties in very dense urban locations (with or without joint venture or development partners for residential or office components), with differing tenant profiles or mixes, and/or multi-story buildings, all in select cases. we face risks associated with the acquisition of properties. our investment strategy includes investing in high-quality shopping centers that are leased to market-dominant grocers, category-leading anchors, specialty retailers, or restaurants located in areas with high barriers to entry and above 7 average household incomes and population densities. the acquisition of properties and/or real estate entities entails risks that include, but are not limited to, the following, any of which may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows: properties we acquire may fail to achieve the occupancy or rental rates we project, within the time frames we estimate, which may result in the properties' failure to achieve the investment returns we project; our investigation of an entity, property or building prior to our acquisition, and any representation we may have received from such seller, may fail to reveal various liabilities including defects and necessary repairs, which may increase our costs; our estimate of the costs to improve, reposition or redevelop a property may prove to be too low, or the time we estimate to complete the improvement, repositioning or redevelopment may be too short, either of which may result in the property failing to achieve our projected return, either temporarily or permanently; we may not recover our costs from an unsuccessful acquisition; our acquisition activities may distract or strain our management capacity; and we may not be able to successfully integrate an acquisition into our existing operations platform. we face risks if we expand into new markets. if opportunities arise, we may acquire or develop properties in markets where we currently have no presence. each of the risks applicable to acquiring or developing properties in our current markets are applicable to acquiring, developing and integrating properties in new markets. in addition, we may not possess the same level of familiarity with the dynamics and conditions of the new markets we may enter, which may adversely affect our operating results and investment returns in those markets. we may be unable to sell properties when appropriate because real estate investments are illiquid. our properties, including their related tangible and intangible assets, represent the majority of our total consolidated assets and they are relatively illiquid. as a result, our ability to sell one or more of our properties including properties held in joint venture in response to changes in economic, industry, or other conditions may be limited. the real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability and terms of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand for space, that are beyond our control. there may be less demand for lower quality properties that we have identified for ultimate disposition in markets with uncertain economic or retail environments, and where buyers are more reliant on the availability of third party mortgage financing. if we want to sell a property, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to dispose of it in the desired time period or at all or that the sales price of a property will be attractive at the relevant time or even exceed the carrying value of our investment. moreover, if a property is mortgaged, we may not be able to obtain a release of the lien on that property without the payment of a substantial prepayment penalty, which may restrict our ability to dispose of the property, even though the sale might otherwise be desirable. certain properties we own have a low tax basis, which may result in a taxable gain on sale. we intend to utilize 1031 exchanges to mitigate taxable income; however, there can be no assurance that we will identify properties that meet our investment objectives for acquisitions. in the event that we do not utilize 1031 exchanges, we may be required to distribute the gain proceeds to shareholders or pay income tax, which may reduce our cash flow available to fund our commitments. certain of the properties in our portfolio are subject to ground leases; if we are found to be in breach of a ground lease or are unable to renew a ground lease, we may be materially and adversely affected. we have 28 properties in our portfolio that are either partially or completely on land subject to ground leases with third parties. accordingly, we only own a long-term leasehold or similar interest in those properties. if we are found to be in breach of a ground lease, we may lose our interest in the improvements and the right to operate the property that is subject to the ground lease. in addition, unless we can purchase a fee interest in the underlying land or extend the terms of these leases before or upon their expiration, as to which no assurance can be given, we will lose our interest in the improvements and the right to operate such properties. the existing lease terms, including renewal options, were taken into consideration when making our investment decisions. the purchase price and subsequent improvements are being depreciated over the shorter of the remaining life of the ground leases or the useful life of the underlying assets. if we were to lose the right to operate a property due to a breach or not exercising renewal options of the ground lease, we would be unable to derive income from such property, which would impair the value of our investments, and materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. geographic concentration of our properties makes our business vulnerable to natural disasters, severe weather conditions and climate change. an uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the insurance coverage on our properties may subject us to loss of capital and revenue on those properties. 8 a significant number of our properties are located in areas that are susceptible to earthquakes, tropical storms, hurricanes, tornadoes, wildfires, sea-level rise, and other natural disasters. as of december 31, 2017 , 26% of the total insured value of our portfolio is located in the state of california, including a number of properties in the san francisco bay and los angeles areas. additionally, 18% and 7% of the total insured value of our portfolio is located in the states of florida and texas, respectively. recent intense weather conditions may cause property insurance premiums to increase significantly in the future. we recognize that the frequency and / or intensity of extreme weather events, sea-level rise, and other climatic changes may continue to increase, and as a result, our exposure to these events may increase. these weather conditions may disrupt our business and the business of our tenants, which may affect the ability of some tenants to pay rent and may reduce the willingness of tenants or residents to remain in or move to these affected areas. therefore, as a result of the geographic concentration of our properties, we face risks, including higher costs, such as uninsured property losses and higher insurance premiums, and disruptions to our business and the businesses of our tenants. we carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, terrorism, rental loss, and environmental insurance for our properties with policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties. some types of losses, such as losses from named wind storms, earthquakes, terrorism, or wars may have limited coverage or be excluded from insurance coverage. although we carry specific insurance coverage for named windstorm and earthquake losses, the policies are subject to deductibles up to 2% to 5% of the total insured value of each property, up to a $10 million maximum deductible per occurrence for each of these perils, with limits of $300 million per occurrence for all perils except earthquake, which has a total annual aggregate limit of $300 million. terrorism coverage is limited to $200 million per occurrence related to property damage. liability claims are limited to $151 million per occurrence. should a loss occur at any of our properties that is subject to a substantial deductible or is in excess of the property or casualty insurance limits of our policies, we may lose part or all of our invested capital and revenues from such property, which may have a material adverse impact on our operating results, financial condition, and our ability to make distributions to stock and unit holders. to the extent climate change causes adverse changes in weather patterns, our properties in certain markets may experience increases in storm intensity and rising sea levels. over time, these conditions may result in volatile or decreased demand for retail space at certain of our properties or, in extreme cases, our inability to operate the properties at all. climate change may also have indirect effects on our business by increasing the cost of insurance on favorable terms, or making insurance unavailable. moreover, compliance with new laws or regulations related to climate change, including compliance with green building codes, may require us to make improvements to our existing properties or increase taxes and fees assessed on us or our properties. at this time, there can be no assurance that climate change will not have a material adverse effect on us. terrorist activities or violence occurring at our properties also may directly affect the value of our properties through damage, destruction or loss. insurance for such acts may be unavailable or cost more resulting in an increase to our operating expenses and adversely affect our results of operations. to the extent that our tenants are affected by such attacks and threats of attacks, their businesses may be adversely affected, including their ability to continue to meet obligations under their existing leases. loss of our key personnel may adversely affect our business and operations. the success of our business depends, in part, on the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees, and our ability to attract, retain and motivate talented employees may significantly impact our future performance. competition for these individuals is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will retain our executive management team and other key employees or that we will be able to attract and retain other highly qualified individuals for these positions in the future. losing any one or more of these persons may have a material adverse effect on us. we face competition from numerous sources, including other reits and other real estate owners. the ownership of shopping centers is highly fragmented. we face competition from other public reits, large private investors, institutional investors, and from numerous small owners in the acquisition, ownership, and leasing of shopping centers. we also compete to develop shopping centers with other reits engaged in development activities as well as with local, regional, and national real estate developers. this competition may: reduce the number of properties available for acquisition or development; increase the cost of properties available for acquisition or development; and hinder our ability to attract and retain tenants, leading to increased vacancy rates and/or reduced rents. if we cannot successfully compete in our targeted markets, our cash flow, and therefore distributions to stock and unit holders, may be adversely affected. 9 costs of environmental remediation may reduce our cash flow available for distribution to stock and unit holders. under various federal, state, and local laws, an owner or manager of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on the property. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. the cost of any required remediation may exceed the value of the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner or the responsible party. the presence of, or the failure to properly remediate, hazardous or toxic substances may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease a contaminated property or to use the property as collateral for a loan. we can provide no assurance that we are aware of all potential environmental liabilities; that any previous owner, occupant or tenant did not create any material environmental condition not known to us; that our properties will not be affected by tenants or nearby properties or other unrelated third parties; and that future uses or conditions, or changes in environmental laws and regulations will not result in additional material environmental liabilities to us. compliance with the americans with disabilities act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make unintended expenditures. all of our properties are required to comply with the americans with disabilities act ( ada ), which generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. compliance with ada requirements may require removal of access barriers, and noncompliance may result in imposition of fines by the u.s. government or an award of damages to private litigants, or both. while the tenants to whom we lease space in our properties are obligated by law to comply with the ada provisions, and typically under tenant leases are obligated to cover costs associated with compliance, if required changes involve greater expenditures than anticipated, or if the changes must be made on a more accelerated basis than anticipated, the ability of these tenants to cover costs may be adversely affected. in addition, we are required to operate the properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental entities and become applicable to the properties. we may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with these requirements, and these expenditures may have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our financial obligations and make distributions to our stock and unit holders. we face risks associated with security breaches through cyber attacks, cyber intrusions or otherwise, as well as other significant disruptions of our information technology (it) networks and related systems. we face risks associated with security breaches, whether through cyber attacks or cyber intrusions over the internet, malware, computer viruses, attachments to e mails, persons inside our organization or persons with access to systems, and other significant disruptions of our it networks and related systems. our it networks and related systems are essential to the operation of our business and our ability to perform day to day operations and, in some cases, may be critical to the operations of certain of our tenants and co-investment partners. although we make efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our it networks and related systems, and we have implemented various measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. even the most well protected information, networks, systems and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because the techniques used in such attempted security breaches evolve and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, and in some cases are designed not to be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, and thus it is impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. a breach or significant and extended disruption in the functioning of our systems, including our primary website, may damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers, tenants and revenues, generate third party claims, result in the unintended and/or unauthorized public disclosure or the misappropriation of proprietary, personal identifying and confidential information, and require us to incur significant expenses to address and remediate or otherwise resolve these kinds of issues, and we may not be able to recover these expenses in whole or in any part from our service providers, responsible parties, or insurance carriers. risk factors related to our partnerships and joint ventures we do not have voting control over properties owned in our co-investment partnerships and joint ventures, so we are unable to ensure that our objectives will be pursued. we have invested substantial capital as a partner in a number of partnerships and joint ventures to acquire, own, lease, develop or redevelop properties. these activities are subject to the same risks as our investments in our wholly-owned properties. these investments, and other future similar investments may involve risks that would not be present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners or other owners might become bankrupt, suffer a deterioration in their creditworthiness, or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. partners or other owners may have economic or 10 other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our own business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. these investments, and other future similar investments, also have the potential risk of creating impasses on decisions, such as a sale or financing, because neither we nor our partner or other owner has full control over the partnership or joint venture. disputes between us and partners or other owners might result in litigation or arbitration that may increase our expenses and prevent management from focusing their time and efforts on our business. consequently, actions by, or disputes with, partners or other owners might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. in addition, we risk the possibility of being liable for the actions of our partners or other owners. these factors may limit the return that we receive from such investments or cause our cash flows to be lower than our estimates. the termination of our partnerships may adversely affect our cash flow, operating results, and our ability to make distributions to stock and unit holders. if partnerships owning a significant number of properties were dissolved for any reason, we would lose the asset, property management, leasing and construction management fees from these partnerships, which may adversely affect our operating results and our cash available for distribution to stock and unit holders. risk factors related to funding strategies and capital structure higher market capitalization rates and lower net operating income ("noi") at our properties may adversely impact our ability to sell properties and fund developments and acquisitions, and may dilute earnings. as part of our funding strategy, we sell operating properties that no longer meet our investment standards or those with a limited future growth profile. these sales proceeds are used to fund the construction of new developments, redevelopments, and repay debt and acquisitions. an increase in market capitalization rates or a decline in noi may cause a reduction in the value of centers identified for sale, which would have an adverse impact on the amount of cash generated. in order to meet the cash requirements of our development program, we may be required to sell more properties than initially planned, which may have a negative impact on our earnings. additionally, the sale of properties resulting in significant tax gains may require higher distributions to our stockholders or payment of additional income taxes in order to maintain our reit status. we intend to utilize 1031 exchanges to mitigate taxable income, however there can be no assurance that we will identify properties that meet our investment objectives for acquisitions. we depend on external sources of capital, which may not be available in the future on favorable terms or at all. to qualify as a reit, the parent company must, among other things, distribute to its stockholders each year at least 90% of its reit taxable income (excluding any net capital gains). because of these distribution requirements, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs with income from operations. we therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. our access to debt depends on our credit rating, the willingness of creditors to lend to us and conditions in the capital markets. in addition to finding creditors willing to lend to us, we are dependent upon our joint venture partners to contribute their pro rata share of any amount needed to repay or refinance existing debt when lenders reduce the amount of debt our partnerships and joint ventures are eligible to refinance. in addition, our existing debt arrangements also impose covenants that limit our flexibility in obtaining other financing. additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of stockholders' interests and additional debt financing may substantially increase our degree of leverage. without access to external sources of capital, we would be required to pay outstanding debt with our operating cash flows and proceeds from property sales. our operating cash flows may not be sufficient to pay our outstanding debt as it comes due and real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly at a return we believe is appropriate. if we are required to deleverage our business with operating cash flows and proceeds from property sales, we may be forced to reduce the amount of, or eliminate altogether, our distributions to stock and unit holders or refrain from making investments in our business. our debt financing may adversely affect our business and financial condition. our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our indebtedness will depend primarily on our future performance, which to a certain extent is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. in addition, we do not expect to generate sufficient operating cash flow to make balloon principal payments on our debt when due. if we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, we may be forced (i) to dispose of properties, which might result in losses, or (ii) to obtain financing at unfavorable terms, either of which may reduce the cash flow available for distributions to 11 stock and unit holders. if we cannot make required mortgage payments, the mortgagee may foreclose on the property securing the mortgage. covenants in our debt agreements may restrict our operating activities and adversely affect our financial condition. our unsecured notes, unsecured term loans, and unsecured line of credit contain customary covenants, including compliance with financial ratios, such as ratio of total debt to gross asset value and fixed charge coverage ratio. fixed charge coverage ratio is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("ebitda") divided by the sum of interest expense and scheduled mortgage principal paid to our lenders plus dividends paid to our preferred stockholders, if any. these covenants may limit our operational flexibility and our acquisition activities. moreover, if we breach any of the covenants in our debt agreements, and do not cure the breach within the applicable cure period, our lenders may require us to repay the debt immediately, even in the absence of a payment default. many of our debt arrangements, including our unsecured notes, unsecured term loans, and unsecured line of credit are cross-defaulted, which means that the lenders under those debt arrangements can put us in default and require immediate repayment of their debt if we breach and fail to cure a default under certain of our other material debt obligations. as a result, any default under our debt covenants may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, our results of operations, our ability to meet our obligations, and the market value of our stock. increases in interest rates would cause our borrowing costs to rise and negatively impact our results of operations. although a significant amount of our outstanding debt has fixed interest rates, we do borrow funds at variable interest rates under our credit facilities and term loans. as of december 31, 2017 , 2.7% of our outstanding debt was variable rate debt. increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense on any variable rate debt to the extent we have not hedged our exposure to changes in interest rates. in addition, increases in interest rates will affect the terms under which we refinance our existing debt as it matures, to the extent we have not hedged our exposure to changes in interest rates. this would reduce our future earnings and cash flows, which may adversely affect our ability to service our debt and meet our other obligations and also may reduce the amount we are able to distribute to our stock and unit holders. hedging activity may expose us to risks, including the risks that a counterparty will not perform and that the hedge will not yield the economic benefits we anticipate, which may adversely affect us. from time to time, we manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements that involve risk, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, and that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes. there can be no assurance that our hedging arrangements will qualify for hedge accounting or that our hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations. should we desire to terminate a hedging agreement, there may be significant costs and cash requirements involved to fulfill our obligations under the hedging agreement. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. we may acquire properties or portfolios of properties through tax-deferred contribution transactions, which may result in stockholder dilution and limit our ability to sell such assets. we may acquire properties or portfolios of properties through tax deferred contribution transactions in exchange for partnership interests in our operating partnership, which may result in stockholder dilution. this acquisition structure may have the effect of, among other things, reducing the amount of tax depreciation we may deduct over the tax life of the acquired properties, and may require that we agree to protect the contributors' ability to defer recognition of taxable gain through restrictions on our ability to dispose of the acquired properties and/or the allocation of partnership debt to the contributors to maintain their tax bases. these restrictions may limit our ability to sell an asset at a time, or on terms, that would be favorable absent such restrictions. risk factors related to our company and the market price for our securities as a result of our merger with equity one, inc., the gazit parties became significant stockholders of regency centers and may have interests that are different from our other stockholders. mr. chaim katzman and gazit-globe, ltd. and certain of its affiliated entities ("the gazit parties") own less than 10% of outstanding shares of our common stock. this concentration of ownership in one group of stockholders may potentially be disadvantageous to the interests of our other stockholders. the gazit parties have sold some of the shares they own in regency centers since we merged, and have filed a plan with the sec to continue selling shares. continued sales of our shares may cause volatility in our stock price, and we may find it more expensive to raise capital, if needed, through the sale of additional equity securities. 12 under the governance agreement entered into as a part of the merger with equity one, we nominated mr. katzman to our board of directors. effective february 14, 2018, mr. katzman resigned from our board. however, so long as the gazit parties beneficially own 7% or more of our outstanding common stock, the gazit parties will have the right to designate another person to be appointed to our board of directors, which person must be reasonably acceptable to our board of directors. changes in economic and market conditions may adversely affect the market price of our securities. the market price of our debt and equity securities may fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, many of which are out of our control, including: actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates; publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry in general and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other reit's; the ability of our tenants to pay rent and meet their other obligations to us under current lease terms and our ability to re-lease space as leases expire; increases in market interest rates that drive purchasers of our stock to demand a higher dividend yield; changes in market valuations of similar companies; adverse market reaction to any additional debt we incur in the future; any future issuances of equity securities; additions or departures of key management personnel; strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; actions by institutional stockholders; changes in our dividend payments; potential tax law changes on reits; speculation in the press or investment community; and general market and economic conditions. these factors may cause the market price of our securities to decline, regardless of our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. it is impossible to ensure that the market price of our securities, including our common stock, will not fall in the future. a decrease in the market price of our common stock may reduce our ability to raise additional equity in the public markets. selling common stock at a decreased market price would have a dilutive impact on existing stockholders. there is no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends at historical rates. our ability to continue to pay dividends at historical rates or to increase our dividend rate will depend on a number of factors, including, among others, the following: our financial condition and results of future operations; the terms of our loan covenants; and our ability to acquire, finance, develop or redevelop and lease additional properties at attractive rates. if we do not maintain or periodically increase the dividend on our common stock, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and other securities. risk factors related to laws and regulations if the parent company fails to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, it would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. we believe that the parent company qualifies for taxation as a reit for federal income tax purposes, and we plan to operate so that we can continue to meet the requirements for taxation as a reit. if the parent company continues to qualify as a reit, it generally will not be subject to federal income tax on income that we distribute to our stockholders. many reit requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. the determination that the parent company is a reit requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances, some of which may not be totally within our control and some of which involve questions of interpretation. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income must come from specific passive sources, like rent, that are itemized in the reit tax laws. there can be no assurance that the internal revenue service ( irs ) or a court would agree with the positions we have taken in interpreting the reit requirements. we are also 13 required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income, excluding capital gains. the fact that we hold many of our assets through co-investment partnerships and their subsidiaries further complicates the application of the reit requirements. furthermore, congress and the irs might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings, that make it more difficult, or impossible, for the parent company to remain qualified as a reit. also, unless the irs granted relief under certain statutory provisions, the parent company would remain disqualified as a reit for four years following the year it first failed to qualify. if the parent company failed to qualify as a reit (currently and/or with respect to any tax years for which the statute of limitations has not expired), we would have to pay significant income taxes, reducing cash available to pay dividends, which would likely have a significant adverse effect on the value of our securities. in addition, we would no longer be required to pay any dividends to stockholders. although we believe that the parent company qualifies as a reit, we cannot assure you that the parent company will continue to qualify or remain qualified as a reit for tax purposes. even if the parent company qualifies as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay certain federal, state, and local taxes on our income and property. for example, if we have net income from prohibited transactions, that income will be subject to a 100% tax. in general, prohibited transactions include sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. the determination as to whether a particular sale is a prohibited transaction depends on the facts and circumstances related to that sale. while we have undertaken a significant number of asset sales in recent years, we do not believe that those sales should be considered prohibited transactions, but there can be no assurance that the irs would not contend otherwise. in addition, on december 22, 2017, h.r. 1, commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act (the "tax cuts and jobs act") was signed into law by the u.s. president. although we are not aware of any provision in the final tax reform legislation or any pending tax legislation that would adversely affect our ability to operate as a reit, new legislation, as well as new regulations, administrative interpretations, or court decisions may be introduced, enacted, or promulgated from time to time, that may change the tax laws or interpretations of the tax laws regarding qualification as a reit, or the federal income tax consequences of that qualification, in a manner that is adverse to our stockholders. recent changes to the u.s. tax laws may have a significant negative impact on the overall economy, our tenants, our investors, and our business. the tax cuts and jobs act made significant changes to the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the "code"). while the changes in the tax cuts and jobs act generally appear to be favorable with respect to reits, the extensive changes to non-reit provisions in the code may have unanticipated effects on us or our stockholders. moreover, congressional leaders have recognized that the process of adopting extensive tax legislation in a short amount of time without hearings and substantial time for review is likely to have led to drafting errors, issues needing clarification and unintended consequences that will have to be reviewed in subsequent tax legislation. at this point, it is not clear when congress will address these issues or when the internal revenue service will issue administrative guidance on the changes made in the tax cuts and jobs act. as a result of the changes to u.s. federal tax laws implemented by the tax cuts and jobs act, our taxable income and the amount of distributions to our stockholders required in order to maintain our reit status, and our relative tax advantage as a reit, may significantly change. the long-term impact of the tax cuts and jobs act on the overall economy, government revenues, our tenants, us, and the real estate industry cannot be reliably predicted at this early stage of the new law's implementation. furthermore, the tax cuts and jobs act may negatively impact certain of our tenants' operating results, financial condition, and future business plans. the tax cuts and jobs act may also result in reduced government revenues, and therefore reduced government spending, which may negatively impact some of our tenants that rely on government funding. there can be no assurance that the tax cuts and jobs act will not negatively impact our operating results, financial condition, and future business operations. dividends paid by reits generally do not qualify for reduced tax rates. subject to limited exceptions, dividends paid by reits (other than distributions designated as capital gain dividends, qualified dividends or returns of capital) are not eligible for reduced rates for qualified dividends paid by "c" corporations and are taxable at ordinary income tax rates. the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends may cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in reits to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-reit corporations that pay dividends, which may adversely affect the value of the shares of reits, including the shares of our capital stock. under the recently passed tax cuts and jobs act, the rate brackets for non-corporate taxpayer's ordinary income are adjusted, the top tax rate is reduced from 39.6% to 37% (excluding the 3.8% medicare tax on net investment income), and 14 ordinary reit dividends are taxed at even lower effective rates. under the tax cuts and jobs act, for taxable years beginning after december 31, 2017 and before january 1, 2026, distributions from reits that are treated as dividends but are not designated as qualified dividends or capital gain dividends are generally taxed as ordinary income after deducting 20% of the amount of the dividend in the case of non-corporate stockholders. at the maximum ordinary income tax rate of 37% applicable for taxable years beginning after december 31, 2017 and before january 1, 2026, the maximum tax rate on ordinary reit dividends for non-corporate stockholders is generally 29.6% (plus the 3.8% medicare tax on net investment income). foreign stockholders may be subject to u.s. federal income tax on gain recognized on a disposition of our common stock if we do not qualify as a "domestically controlled" reit. a foreign person disposing of a u.s. real property interest, including shares of a u.s. corporation whose assets consist principally of u.s. real property interests is generally subject to u.s. federal income tax on any gain recognized on the disposition. this tax does not apply, however, to the disposition of stock in a reit if the reit is "domestically controlled." in general, we will be a domestically controlled reit if at all times during the five-year period ending on the applicable stockholder's disposition of our stock, less than 50% in value of our stock was held directly or indirectly by non-u.s. persons. if we were to fail to qualify as a domestically controlled reit, gain recognized by a foreign stockholder on a disposition of our common stock would be subject to u.s. federal income tax unless our common stock was traded on an established securities market and the foreign stockholder did not at any time during a specified testing period directly or indirectly own more than 10% of our outstanding common stock. legislative or other actions affecting reits may have a negative effect on us. the rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the irs and the u.s. department of the treasury. changes to the tax laws, with or without retroactive application, may adversely affect regency or our investors. we cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect regency or our investors. new legislation, treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify as a reit or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification, or the federal income tax consequences of an investment in us. also, the law relating to the tax treatment of other entities, or an investment in other entities, may change, making an investment in such other entities more attractive relative to an investment in a reit. complying with reit requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities. the reit provisions of the code limit our ability to hedge our liabilities. generally, income from a hedging transaction that constitutes qualifying income for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests applicable to reits, does not constitute gross income for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests, provided that we properly identify the hedging transaction pursuant to the applicable sections of the code and treasury regulations. to the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, or fail to make the proper tax identifications, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both gross income tests. as a result of these rules, we may need to limit our use of otherwise advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a taxable reit subsidiary, or trs. changes in accounting standards may impact our financial results. the financial accounting standards board ("fasb"), in conjunction with the sec, has several key projects recently completed or on their agenda that may impact how we currently account for our material transactions, including lease accounting and other convergence projects with the international accounting standards board. the largest projects, revenue from contracts with customers and leases, have been issued and will be adopted by the company by their effective dates, as further described in note 1. the leases standard is expected to have an impact on our financial statements when adopted to require all of our operating leases for office, ground and equipment leases to be recorded on our balance sheet. also, we will no longer capitalize internal leasing compensation costs and legal costs associated with leasing activities under the new standard, which will result in an increase in our general and administrative costs and a reduction to our net income. restrictions on the ownership of the parent company's capital stock to preserve its reit status may delay or prevent a change in control. ownership of more than 7% by value of our outstanding capital stock is prohibited, with certain exceptions, by the parent company's articles of incorporation, for the purpose of maintaining its qualification as a reit. this 7% limitation may discourage a change in control and may also (i) deter tender offers for our capital stock, which offers may be attractive to our stockholders, or (ii) limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their capital stock that might otherwise exist if an investor attempted to assemble a block in excess of 7% of our outstanding capital stock or to affect a change in control. 15 the issuance of the parent company's capital stock may delay or prevent a change in control. the parent company's articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 30,000,000 shares of preferred stock and 10,000,000 shares of special common stock and to establish the preferences and rights of any shares issued. the issuance of preferred stock or special common stock may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. the provisions of the florida business corporation act regarding affiliated transactions may also deter potential acquisitions by preventing the acquiring party from consummating a merger or other extraordinary corporate transaction without the approval of our disinterested stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to two significant components of interest rate risk: we have a line commitment, as further described in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements, which has a variable interest rate that is based upon an annual rate of libor plus 0.925% . libor rates charged on our line change monthly. the spread on the line is dependent upon maintaining specific credit ratings. if our credit ratings are downgraded, the spread on the line would increase, resulting in higher interest costs. the interest rate spread based on our credit rating ranges from libor plus 0.875% to libor plus 1.550%. we are also exposed to changes in interest rates when we refinance our existing long-term fixed rate debt. the objective of our interest rate risk management program is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows. to achieve these objectives, we borrow primarily at fixed interest rates and may enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps, or treasury locks in order to mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument. we do not enter into derivative or interest rate transactions for speculative purposes. our interest rate swaps are structured solely for the purpose of interest rate protection. we continuously monitor the capital markets and evaluate our ability to issue new debt to repay maturing debt or fund our commitments. based upon the current capital markets, our current credit ratings, our current capacity under our unsecured credit facilities, and the number of high quality, unencumbered properties that we own which could collateralize borrowings, we expect that we will be able to successfully issue new secured or unsecured debt to fund these debt obligations. our interest rate risk is monitored using a variety of techniques. the table below presents the principal cash flows, weighted average interest rates of remaining debt, and the fair value of total debt as of december 31, 2017 (dollars in thousands). the table is presented by year of expected maturity to evaluate the expected cash flows and sensitivity to interest rate changes. although the average interest rate for variable rate debt is included in the table, those rates represent rates that existed as of december 31, 2017 and are subject to change on a monthly basis. in addition, the company continually assesses the market risk for its floating rate debt and believes that a 1% increase in interest rates would decrease future earnings and cash flows by approximately $1.0 million per year based on $36.3 million of floating rate mortgage debt and $60.0 million of floating rate line of credit debt outstanding at december 31, 2017 . if the company increases its line of credit balance in the future, additional decreases to future earnings and cash flows would occur. further, the table below incorporates only those exposures that exist as of december 31, 2017 and does not consider exposures or positions that could arise after that date. since firm commitments are not presented, the table has limited predictive value. as a result, our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to interest rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise during the period, our hedging strategies at that time, and actual interest rates. 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 thereafter total fair value fixed rate debt $ 122,867 22,578 539,702 300,427 582,466 1,947,384 3,515,424 3,586,673 average interest rate for all fixed rate debt (1) 3.89 % 3.88 % 3.83 % 3.70 % 3.89 % 3.91 % variable rate libor debt $ 68,569 27,750 96,319 96,371 average interest rate for all variable rate debt (1) % 2.16 % % 2.39 % % % (1) average interest rates at the end of each year presented. 64risk factors below. the following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto of regency centers corporation and regency centers, l.p. appearing elsewhere herein. we do not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to such forward-looking statements to reflect events or uncertainties after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of uncertain events. part i item 1. business regency centers began its operations as a publicly-traded reit in 1993, and, as of december 31, 2018 , had full or partial ownership interests in 425 properties primarily anchored by market leading grocery stores. our properties are principally located in affluent and infill trade areas of the united states, and contain 53.6 million square feet ("sf") of gross leasable area ("gla"). our ownership share of this gla is 43.4 million square feet, including our share of the partially owned properties. all of our operating, investing, and financing activities are performed through the operating partnership, our wholly-owned subsidiaries, and through our co-investment partnerships. on march 1, 2017, regency completed its merger with equity one inc. ("equity one"), whereby equity one merged with and into regency, with regency continuing as the surviving public company. as part of the merger, regency acquired 121 properties representing 16.0 million sf of gla, including 8 properties held through co-investment partnerships. our mission is to be the preeminent national owner, operator, and developer of shopping centers connecting outstanding retailers and service providers with surrounding neighborhoods and communities. our goals are to: own and manage a portfolio of high-quality neighborhood and community shopping centers anchored by market leading grocers and located in affluent suburban and near urban trade areas in the country's most desirable metro areas. we expect that this combination will produce highly desirable and attractive centers with best-in-class retailers. these centers should command higher rental and occupancy rates resulting in excellent prospects to grow net operating income ("noi"); maintain an industry leading and disciplined development and redevelopment platform to deliver exceptional retail centers at higher returns as compared to acquisitions; support our business activities with a strong balance sheet; and engage a talented, dedicated team of employees, who are guided by regency's strong values and special culture, which are aligned with shareholder interests. key strategies to achieve our goals are to: increase earnings per share and dividends and generate total shareholder returns at or near the top of our shopping center peers. sustain same property noi growth at or near the top of our shopping center peers; develop and redevelop high quality shopping centers at attractive returns on investment; maintain a conservative balance sheet providing financial flexibility to cost effectively fund investment opportunities and debt maturities on a favorable basis, and to weather economic downturns; and attract and motivate an exceptional team of employees who operate efficiently and are recognized as industry leaders. 1 corporate responsibility regency's vision is to be the preeminent national owner, operator and developer of shopping centers, connecting outstanding retailers and service providers with its neighborhoods and communities while practicing best-in-class corporate responsibility. our corporate responsibility report highlights our commitment to stakeholders and the critical role regency's core values have on how we practice corporate responsibility. we are committed to transparent reporting on sustainability and corporate responsibility efforts in accordance with the guidelines of the global reporting initiative. a copy of our corporate responsibility report is available on our website, www.regencycenters.com. sustainability we believe sustainability is in the best interest of our tenants, investors, employees, and the communities in which we operate and are committed to reducing our environmental impact, including energy and water use, greenhouse gas emissions, and waste. we believe this commitment is not only the right thing to do, but also supports the company in achieving key strategic objectives in operations and development. we are committed to transparency with regard to our sustainability performance, risks and opportunities, and will continue to enhance disclosure using industry accepted reporting frameworks. more information about our sustainability strategy, goals, performance, and formal disclosures are available on our website at www.regencycenters.com. competition we are among the largest owners of shopping centers in the nation based on revenues, number of properties, gla, and market capitalization. there are numerous companies and individuals engaged in the ownership, development, acquisition, and operation of shopping centers that compete with us in our targeted markets, including grocery store chains that also anchor some of our shopping centers. this results in competition for attracting tenants, as well as the acquisition of existing shopping centers and new development sites. we believe that our competitive advantages are driven by: our locations within our market areas; the design and high quality of our shopping centers; the strong demographics surrounding our shopping centers; our relationships with our anchor tenants and our side-shop and out-parcel retailers; our practice of maintaining and renovating our shopping centers; and our ability to source and develop new shopping centers. employees our corporate headquarters are located at one independent drive, suite 114, jacksonville, florida. we presently maintain 22 market offices nationwide, including our corporate headquarters, where we conduct management, leasing, construction, and investment activities. we have 446 employees throughout the united states and we believe that our relations with our employees are good. compliance with governmental regulations under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, we may be liable for the cost to remove or remediate certain hazardous or toxic substances at our shopping centers. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. the cost of required remediation and the owner's liability for remediation could exceed the value of the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner. the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or borrow using the property as collateral. although we have a number of properties that could require or are currently undergoing varying levels of environmental remediation, known environmental remediation is not currently expected to have a material financial impact on us due to insurance programs designed to mitigate the cost of remediation, various state-regulated programs that shift the responsibility and cost to the state, and existing accrued liabilities for remediation. 2 executive officers our executive officers are appointed each year by our board of directors. each of our executive officers has been employed by us for more than five years. name age title executive officer in position shown since martin e. stein, jr. 66 chairman and chief executive officer 1993 lisa palmer 51 president and chief financial officer 2016 (1) dan m. chandler, iii 51 executive vice president of investments 2016 (2) james d. thompson 63 executive vice president of operations 2016 (3) (1) ms. palmer assumed the responsibilities of president, effective january 1, 2016 in addition to her responsibilities as chief financial officer, which position she has held since january 2013. prior to that, ms. palmer served as senior vice president of capital markets since 2003 and has been with the company since 1996. (2) mr. chandler assumed the role of executive vice president of investments on january 1, 2016 and previously served as managing director since 2006. prior to that, mr. chandler served in various investment officer positions since the merger with pacific retail trust in 1999. (3) mr. thompson assumed the role of executive vice president of operations on january 1, 2016 and previously served as our managing director - east since our initial public offering in 1993. prior to that time, mr. thompson served as executive vice president of our predecessor real estate division beginning in 1981. company website access and sec filings our website may be accessed at www.regencycenters.com . all of our filings with the securities and exchange commission ("sec") can be accessed free of charge through our website promptly after filing; however, in the event that the website is inaccessible, we will provide paper copies of our most recent annual report on form 10-k, the most recent quarterly report on form 10-q, current reports filed or furnished on form 8-k, and all related amendments, excluding exhibits, free of charge upon request. these filings are also accessible on the sec's website at www.sec.gov . the content of our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on form 10-k or in any other report or document we file with the sec, and any references to our website are intended to be inactive textual references only. general information our registrar and stock transfer agent is broadridge corporate issuer solutions, inc. ("broadridge"), philadelphia, pa. we offer a dividend reinvestment plan ("drip") that enables our shareholders to reinvest dividends automatically, as well as to make voluntary cash payments toward the purchase of additional shares. for more information, contact broadridge toll free at (855) 449-0975 or our shareholder relations department at (904) 598-7000. on october 25, 2018, the company's board approved the transfer of the company's common stock from listing on the new york stock exchange ("nyse") to the nasdaq global select market ("nasdaq"). the last day of trading on the nyse was november 12, 2018. the company's common stock commenced trading on nasdaq on november 13, 2018, and continues to trade under the stock symbol "reg". our independent registered public accounting firm is kpmg llp, jacksonville, florida. our legal counsel is foley &amp; lardner llp, jacksonville, florida. annual meeting of shareholders our 2019 annual meeting of shareholders will be held at the ponte vedra inn and club, 200 ponte vedra blvd., ponte vedra beach, florida, at 2:45 p.m. on tuesday, may 7, 2019 . 3 defined terms in addition to the required generally accepted accounting principles ("gaap") presentations, we use certain non-gaap performance measures as we believe these measures improve the understanding of the company's operational results. we continually evaluate the usefulness, relevance, limitations, and calculation of our reported non-gaap performance measures to determine how best to provide relevant information to the public, and thus such reported measures could change. the following terms, as defined, are commonly used by management and the investing public to understand and evaluate our operational results: same property is a retail operating property that was owned and operated for the entirety of both calendar year periods being compared. this term excludes all developments and non-same properties. non-same property is a property acquired, sold, or a development completion during either calendar year period being compared. non-retail properties and corporate activities, including the captive insurance program, are part of non-same property. retail operating property is any retail property not termed a property in development. a retail property is any property where the majority of the income is generated from retail uses. property in development includes properties in various stages of development and redevelopment including active pre-development activities. development completion is a property in development that is deemed complete upon the earliest of: (i) 90% of total estimated net development costs have been incurred and percent leased equals or exceeds 95%, or (ii) the property features at least two years of anchor operations, or (iii) three years have passed since the start of construction. once deemed complete, the property is termed a retail operating property the following calendar year. pro-rata information includes 100% of our consolidated properties plus our economic share (based on our ownership interest) in our unconsolidated real estate investment partnerships. we manage our entire real estate portfolio without regard to ownership structure, although certain decisions impacting properties owned through partnerships require partner approval. therefore, we believe presenting our pro-rata share of certain operating metrics, along with other non-gaap measures, makes comparisons of other reits' operating results to the company's more meaningful. the pro-rata information is prepared on a basis consistent with the comparable consolidated amounts and is intended to more accurately reflect our proportionate economic interest in the operating results of properties in our portfolio. we do not control the unconsolidated investment partnerships, and the pro-rata presentations of the assets and liabilities, and revenues and expenses do not represent our legal claim to such items. the partners are entitled to profit or loss allocations and distributions of cash flows according to the operating agreements, which provide for such allocations according to their invested capital. our share of invested capital establishes the ownership interests we use to prepare our pro-rata share. the presentation of pro-rata information has limitations which include, but are not limited to, the following: the amounts shown on the individual line items were derived by applying our overall economic ownership interest percentage determined when applying the equity method of accounting or allocating noncontrolling interests, and do not necessarily represent our legal claim to the assets and liabilities, or the revenues and expenses; and other companies in our industry may calculate their pro-rata interest differently, limiting the comparability of pro-rata information. because of these limitations, the pro-rata financial information should not be considered independently or as a substitute for our financial statements as reported under gaap. we compensate for these limitations by relying primarily on our gaap financial statements, using the pro-rata information as a supplement. nareit ebitdare is a measure of reit performance, which the national association of real estate investment trusts ("nareit") defines as net income, computed in accordance with gaap, excluding (i) interest expense, (ii) income tax expense, (iii) depreciation and amortization, (iv) gains and losses from sales of depreciable property, (v) 4 operating real estate impairments, and (vi) adjustments to reflect the company's share of unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. operating ebitdare (previously adjusted ebitda) begins with the nareit ebitda re and excludes certain non-cash components of earnings derived from above and below market rent amortization and straight-line rents. fixed charge coverage ratio is defined as operating ebitda re divided by the sum of the gross interest and scheduled mortgage principal paid to our lenders plus dividends paid to our preferred stockholders. net operating income ("noi") is the sum of base rent, percentage rent, and recoveries from tenants and other income, less operating and maintenance, real estate taxes, ground rent, and provision for doubtful accounts. noi excludes straight-line rental income and expense, above and below market rent and ground rent amortization, tenant lease inducement amortization, and other fees. the company also provides disclosure of noi excluding termination fees, which excludes both termination fee income and expenses. nareit funds from operations ("nareit ffo") is a commonly used measure of reit performance, which nareit defines as net income, computed in accordance with gaap, excluding gains and losses from sales of depreciable property, net of tax, excluding operating real estate impairments, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. we compute nareit ffo for all periods presented in accordance with nareit's definition. many companies use different depreciable lives and methods, and real estate values historically fluctuate with market conditions. since nareit ffo excludes depreciation and amortization and gains and losses from depreciable property dispositions, and impairments, it provides a performance measure that, when compared year over year, reflects the impact on operations from trends in occupancy rates, rental rates, operating costs, acquisition and development activities, and financing costs. this provides a perspective of our financial performance not immediately apparent from net income determined in accordance with gaap. thus, nareit ffo is a supplemental non-gaap financial measure of our operating performance, which does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with gaap; and, therefore, should not be considered a substitute measure of cash flows from operations. the company provides a reconciliation of net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders to nareit ffo. 5 item 1a. risk factors risk factors related to the retail industry economic and market conditions may adversely affect the retail industry and consequently reduce our revenues and cash flow, and increase our operating expenses. our properties are leased primarily to retail tenants from whom we derive most of our revenue in the form of minimum rent, expense recoveries and other income. therefore, our performance and operating results are directly linked to the economic and market conditions occurring in the retail industry. we are subject to the risks that, upon expiration, leases for space in our properties are not renewed by existing tenants, vacant space is not leased to new tenants, or tenants demand new lease terms, including costs for renovations or concessions. the market for leasing retail space in our properties may be adversely affected by any of the following: changes in national, regional and local economic conditions; deterioration in the competitiveness and creditworthiness of our retail tenants; increased competition from the use of e-commerce by retailers and consumers as well as other concepts such as super-stores and warehouse clubs; tenant bankruptcies and subsequent rejections of our leases; reductions in consumer spending and retail sales; reduced tenant demand for retail space; oversupply of retail space; reduced consumer demand for certain retail categories; consolidation within the retail sector; increased operating costs; perceptions by retailers and shoppers of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of our properties; casualties, natural disasters and terrorist attacks; and armed conflicts against the united states. to the extent that any of these conditions occur they are likely to impact the retail industry, our retail tenants, the demand and market rents for retail space, the occupancy levels of our properties, our ability to sell, acquire or develop properties, our operating results and our cash available for distributions to stock and unit holders. the integration of bricks and mortar stores and e-commerce by retailers and a continued shift in retail sales towards e-commerce may adversely impact our revenues and cash flows. retailers are increasingly impacted by e-commerce and changes in customer buying habits, including the delivery or curbside pick-up of items ordered online. retailers are considering these e-commerce trends when making decisions regarding their bricks and mortar stores and how they will compete and innovate in a rapidly changing e-commerce environment. many retailers in our shopping centers provide services or sell goods, which have historically been less likely to be purchased online; however, the continuing increase in e-commerce sales in all retail categories may cause retailers to adjust the size or number of retail locations in the future or close stores. our grocer tenants are incorporating e-commerce concepts through home delivery, which could reduce foot traffic at our centers. this shift may adversely impact our occupancy and rental rates, which would impact our revenues and cash flows. changes in shopping trends as a result of the growth in e-commerce may also impact the profitability of retailers that do not adapt to changes in market conditions. these conditions may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows if we are unable to meet the needs of our tenants or if our tenants encounter financial difficulties as a result of changing market conditions. our business is dependent on perceptions by retailers and shoppers of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of our retail properties. we are dependent on perceptions by retailers or shoppers of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of our retail properties. if retailers and shoppers perceive competing retail properties and other retailing options to be safer, more convenient, or of a higher quality, our revenues may be adversely affected. changing economic and retail market conditions in geographic areas where our properties are concentrated may reduce our revenues and cash flow. economic conditions in markets where our properties are concentrated can greatly influence our financial performance. during the year ended december 31, 2018 , our properties in california, florida, and texas accounted for 28.1% , 6 20.1% , and 7.1% , respectively, of our noi from consolidated properties plus our pro-rata share from unconsolidated properties ("pro-rata basis"). our revenues and cash flow may be adversely affected by this geographic concentration if market conditions, such as supply of or demand for retail space, deteriorate more significantly in california, florida, or texas compared to other geographic areas. our success depends on the success and continued presence of our anchor tenants. anchor tenants ("anchor tenants" or "anchors" occupying 10,000 square feet or more) occupy large stores in our shopping centers, pay a significant portion of the total rent at a property and contribute to the success of other tenants by attracting shoppers to the property. we derive significant revenues from anchor tenants such as publix , kroger co. , albertsons companies, inc. , whole foods , and tjx companies , who accounted for 3.2% , 3.0% , 2.8% , 2.4% , and 2.3% , respectively, of our total annualized base rent on a pro-rata basis, for the year ended december 31, 2018 . our net income and cash flow may be adversely affected by the loss of revenues and additional costs in the event a significant anchor tenant: becomes bankrupt or insolvent; experiences a downturn in its business; materially defaults on its leases; does not renew its leases as they expire; renews at lower rental rates and/or requires a tenant improvement allowance; or renews, but reduces its store size, which results in down-time and additional tenant improvement costs to the landlord to re-lease the vacated space. some anchors have the right to vacate their space and may prevent us from re-tenanting by continuing to comply and pay rent in accordance with their lease agreement. vacated anchor space, including space owned by the anchor, can reduce rental revenues generated by the shopping center in other spaces because of the loss of the departed anchor's customer drawing power. if a significant tenant vacates a property, co-tenancy clauses in select lease contracts may allow other tenants to modify or terminate their rent or lease obligations. co-tenancy clauses have several variants: they may allow a tenant to postpone a store opening if certain other tenants fail to open their stores; they may allow a tenant to close its store prior to lease expiration if another tenant closes its store prior to lease expiration; or more commonly, they may allow a tenant to pay reduced levels of rent until a certain number of tenants open their stores within the same shopping center. a significant percentage of our revenues are derived from smaller shop space tenants and our net income may be adversely impacted if our smaller shop tenants are not successful. a significant percentage of our revenues are derived from smaller shop space tenants ("shop space tenants" occupying less than 10,000 square feet). shop space tenants may be more vulnerable to negative economic conditions as they have more limited resources than anchor tenants. shop space tenants may be facing reduced sales as a result of an increase in competition including from e-commerce retailers. certain shop space tenants are incorporating e-commerce into their business strategies and may seek to reduce their store sizes upon lease expiration as they adjust to and implement alternative distribution channels. the types of shop space tenants vary from retail shops and restaurants to service providers. if we are unable to attract the right type or mix of shop space tenants into our centers, our revenues and cash flow may be adversely impacted. at december 31, 2018 , shop space tenants represent approximately 35.3% of our gla leased at average base rents of $33.75 per square foot ("psf"). a one-percent decline in our shop space occupancy may result in a reduction to minimum rent of approximately $4.8 million . we may be unable to collect balances due from tenants in bankruptcy. although minimum rent and recoveries from tenants are supported by long-term lease contracts, tenants who file bankruptcy have the legal right to reject any or all of their leases and close related stores. any unsecured claim we hold against a bankrupt tenant for unpaid rent might be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims. as a result, it is likely that we would recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims we hold. additionally, we may incur significant expense to recover our claim and to re-lease the vacated space. in the event that a tenant with a significant number of leases in our shopping centers files bankruptcy and rejects its leases, we may experience a significant reduction in our revenues and may not be able to collect all pre-petition amounts owed by the bankrupt tenant. 7 risk factors related to real estate investments and operations we are subject to numerous laws and regulations that may adversely affect our operations or expose us to liability. our properties are subject to numerous federal, state, and local laws and regulations, some of which may conflict with one another or be subject to varying judicial or regulatory interpretations. these laws and regulations may include zoning laws, building codes, competition laws, rules and agreements, landlord-tenant laws, property tax regulations, changes in real estate assessments and other laws and regulations generally applicable to business operations. noncompliance with such laws and regulations, and any associated litigation may expose us to liability. our real estate assets may decline in value and be subject to impairment losses which may reduce our net income. our real estate properties are carried at cost unless circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. we evaluate whether there are any indicators, including property operating performance and general market conditions, such that the value of the real estate properties (including any related tangible or intangible assets or liabilities, including goodwill) may not be recoverable. through the evaluation, we compare the current carrying value of the asset to the estimated undiscounted cash flows that are directly associated with the use and ultimate disposition of the asset. our estimated cash flows are based on several key assumptions, including rental rates, costs of tenant improvements, leasing commissions, anticipated holding periods, and assumptions regarding the residual value upon disposition, including the exit capitalization rate. these key assumptions are subjective in nature and may differ materially from actual results. changes in our disposition strategy or changes in the marketplace may alter the holding period of an asset or asset group, which may result in an impairment loss and such loss may be material to the company's financial condition or operating performance. to the extent that the carrying value of the asset exceeds the estimated undiscounted cash flows, an impairment loss is recognized equal to the excess of carrying value over fair value. the fair value of real estate assets is subjective and is determined through the use of comparable sales information and other market data if available, or through use of an income approach such as the direct capitalization method or the traditional discounted cash flow approach. such cash flow projections take into account expected future operating income, trends and prospects, as well as the effects of demand, competition and other relevant criteria, and therefore are subject to management judgment. changes in these factors may impact the determination of fair value. in estimating the fair value of undeveloped land, we generally use market data and comparable sales information. these subjective assessments have a direct impact on our net income because recording an impairment charge results in an immediate negative adjustment to net income, which may be material. there can be no assurance that we will not record impairment charges in the future related to our assets. we face risks associated with development, redevelopment and expansion of properties. we actively pursue opportunities for new retail development, or existing property redevelopment or expansion. development and redevelopment activities require various government and other approvals for entitlements and any delay in such approvals may significantly delay this process. we may not recover our investment in development or redevelopment projects for which approvals are not received. we are subject to other risks associated with these activities, including the following risks: we may be unable to lease developments to full occupancy on a timely basis; the occupancy rates and rents of a completed project may not be sufficient to make the project profitable; actual costs of a project may exceed original estimates, possibly making the project unprofitable; delays in the development or construction process may increase our costs; construction cost increases may reduce investment returns on development and redevelopment opportunities; we may abandon development opportunities and lose our investment due to adverse market conditions; the size of our development pipeline may strain our labor or capital capacity to complete developments within targeted timelines and may reduce our investment returns; a reduction in the demand for new retail space may reduce our future development activities, which in turn may reduce our net operating income; changes in the level of future development activity may adversely impact our results from operations by reducing the amount of internal general overhead costs that may be capitalized; an expansion of our development and acquisition focus to include more complex redevelopments and mixed use properties in very dense urban locations could absorb resources and potentially result in inconsistent deliveries, adversely impacting annual noi and earnings growth; mixed use properties may include differing tenant profiles or mixes, more complex entitlement processes, and/or multi-story buildings, outside our traditional expertise, which could impact annual noi and earnings growth; and 8 we may develop or redevelop mixed use centers with partners for the residential or office components, making us dependent upon that partner's ability to perform and to agree on major decisions that impact our investment returns of the project. we face risks associated with the acquisition of properties. our investment strategy includes investing in high-quality shopping centers that are leased to market-dominant grocers, category-leading anchors, specialty retailers, or restaurants located in areas with high barriers to entry and above average household incomes and population densities. the acquisition of properties and/or real estate entities entails risks that include, but are not limited to, the following, any of which may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows: properties we acquire may fail to achieve the occupancy or rental rates we project, within the time frames we estimate, which may result in the properties' failure to achieve the investment returns we project; our investigation of an entity, property or building prior to our acquisition, and any representation we may have received from such seller, may fail to reveal various liabilities including defects and necessary repairs, which may increase our costs; our estimate of the costs to improve, reposition or redevelop a property may prove to be too low, or the time we estimate to complete the improvement, repositioning or redevelopment may be too short, either of which may result in the property failing to achieve our projected return, either temporarily or permanently; we may not recover our costs from an unsuccessful acquisition; our acquisition activities may distract or strain our management capacity; and we may not be able to successfully integrate an acquisition into our existing operations platform. we face risks if we expand into new markets. if opportunities arise, we may acquire or develop properties in markets where we currently have no presence. each of the risks applicable to acquiring or developing properties in our current markets are applicable to acquiring, developing and integrating properties in new markets. in addition, we may not possess the same level of familiarity with the dynamics and conditions of the new markets we may enter, which may adversely affect our operating results and investment returns in those markets. we may be unable to sell properties when desired because of market conditions. our properties, including their related tangible and intangible assets, represent the majority of our total consolidated assets and they may not be readily convertible to cash. as a result, our ability to sell one or more of our properties including properties held in joint venture in response to changes in economic, industry, or other conditions may be limited. the real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability and terms of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand for space, that are beyond our control. there may be less demand for lower quality properties that we have identified for ultimate disposition in markets with uncertain economic or retail environments, and where buyers are more reliant on the availability of third party mortgage financing. if we want to sell a property, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to dispose of it in the desired time period or at all or that the sales price of a property will be attractive at the relevant time or even exceed the carrying value of our investment. moreover, if a property is mortgaged, we may not be able to obtain a release of the lien on that property without the payment of a substantial prepayment penalty, which may restrict our ability to dispose of the property, even though the sale might otherwise be desirable. certain properties we own have a low tax basis, which may result in a taxable gain on sale. we intend to utilize 1031 exchanges to mitigate taxable income; however, there can be no assurance that we will identify properties that meet our investment objectives for acquisitions. in the event that we do not utilize 1031 exchanges, we may be required to distribute the gain proceeds to shareholders or pay income tax, which may reduce our cash flow available to fund our commitments. certain of the properties in our portfolio are subject to ground leases; if we are found to be in breach of a ground lease or are unable to renew a ground lease, we may be materially and adversely affected. we have 29 properties in our portfolio that are either partially or completely on land subject to ground leases with third parties. accordingly, we only own a long-term leasehold or similar interest in those properties. if we are found to be in breach of a ground lease, we may lose our interest in the improvements and the right to operate the property that is subject to the ground lease. in addition, unless we can purchase a fee interest in the underlying land or extend the terms of these leases before or upon their expiration, as to which no assurance can be given, we will lose our interest in the improvements and the right to operate such properties. the existing lease terms, including renewal options, were taken into consideration when making our investment decisions. the purchase price and subsequent improvements are being depreciated over the shorter of the remaining 9 life of the ground leases or the useful life of the underlying assets. if we were to lose the right to operate a property due to a breach or not exercising renewal options of the ground lease, we would be unable to derive income from such property, which would impair the value of our investments, and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. geographic concentration of our properties makes our business vulnerable to natural disasters, severe weather conditions and climate change. an uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the insurance coverage on our properties may subject us to loss of capital and revenue on those properties. a significant number of our properties are located in areas that are susceptible to earthquakes, tropical storms, hurricanes, tornadoes, wildfires, sea-level rise, and other natural disasters. as of december 31, 2018 , 25% of the total insured value of our portfolio is located in the state of california, including a number of properties in the san francisco bay and los angeles areas. additionally, 19% and 6% of the total insured value of our portfolio is located in the states of florida and texas, respectively. recent intense weather conditions may cause property insurance premiums to increase significantly in the future. we recognize that the frequency and / or intensity of extreme weather events, sea-level rise, and other climatic changes may continue to increase, and as a result, our exposure to these events may increase. these weather conditions may disrupt our business and the business of our tenants, which may affect the ability of some tenants to pay rent and may reduce the willingness of tenants or residents to remain in or move to these affected areas. therefore, as a result of the geographic concentration of our properties, we face risks, including higher costs, such as uninsured property losses and higher insurance premiums, and disruptions to our business and the businesses of our tenants. we carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, terrorism, rental loss, and environmental insurance for our properties with policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties. some types of losses, such as losses from named wind storms, earthquakes, terrorism, or wars may have limited coverage or be excluded from insurance coverage. although we carry specific insurance coverage for named windstorm and earthquake losses, the policies are subject to deductibles up to 2% to 5% of the total insured value of each property, up to a $10 million maximum deductible per occurrence for each of these perils, with limits of $300 million per occurrence for all perils except earthquake, which has a total annual aggregate limit of $300 million. terrorism coverage is limited to $200 million per occurrence related to property damage. liability claims are limited to $151 million per occurrence. should a loss occur at any of our properties that is subject to a substantial deductible or is in excess of the property or casualty insurance limits of our policies, we may lose part or all of our invested capital and revenues from such property, which may have a material adverse impact on our operating results, financial condition, and our ability to make distributions to stock and unit holders. to the extent climate change causes adverse changes in weather patterns, our properties in certain markets may experience increases in storm intensity and rising sea levels. climate change may result in volatile or decreased demand for retail space at certain of our properties or, in extreme cases, our inability to operate certain properties at all. climate change may also have indirect effects on our business by increasing the cost of insurance on favorable terms, or making insurance unavailable. moreover, compliance with new laws or regulations related to climate change, including compliance with green building codes, may require us to make improvements to our existing properties or increase taxes and fees assessed on us or our properties. at this time, there can be no assurance that climate change will not have a material adverse effect on us. terrorist activities or violence occurring at our properties also may directly affect the value of our properties through damage, destruction or loss. insurance for such acts may be unavailable or cost more resulting in an increase to our operating expenses and adversely affect our results of operations. to the extent that our tenants are affected by such attacks and threats of attacks, their businesses may be adversely affected, including their ability to continue to meet obligations under their existing leases. loss of our key personnel may adversely affect our business and operations. the success of our business depends, in part, on the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees, and our ability to attract, retain and motivate talented employees may significantly impact our future performance. competition for these individuals is intense, and we cannot be assured that we will retain all of our executive management team and other key employees or that we will be able to attract and retain other highly qualified individuals for these positions in the future. losing any one or more of these persons may have a material adverse effect on us. we face competition from numerous sources, including other reits and other real estate owners. the ownership of shopping centers is highly fragmented. we face competition from other public reits, large private investors, institutional investors, and from numerous small owners in the acquisition, ownership, and leasing of shopping centers. we also compete to develop shopping centers with other reits engaged in development activities as well as with local, regional, and national real estate developers. this competition may: 10 reduce the number of properties available for acquisition or development; increase the cost of properties available for acquisition or development; and hinder our ability to attract and retain tenants, leading to increased vacancy rates and/or reduced rents. if we cannot successfully compete in our targeted markets, our cash flow, and therefore distributions to stock and unit holders, may be adversely affected. costs of environmental remediation may reduce our cash flow available for distribution to stock and unit holders. under various federal, state, and local laws, an owner or manager of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on the property. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. the cost of any required remediation may exceed the value of the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner or the responsible party. the presence of, or the failure to properly remediate, hazardous or toxic substances may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease a contaminated property or to use the property as collateral for a loan. we can provide no assurance that we are aware of all potential environmental liabilities; that any previous owner, occupant or tenant did not create any material environmental condition not known to us; that our properties will not be affected by tenants or nearby properties or other unrelated third parties; and that future uses or conditions, or changes in environmental laws and regulations will not result in additional material environmental liabilities to us. compliance with the americans with disabilities act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make unintended expenditures. all of our properties are required to comply with the americans with disabilities act ( ada ), which generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. compliance with ada requirements may require removal of access barriers, and noncompliance may result in imposition of fines by the u.s. government or an award of damages to private litigants, or both. while the tenants to whom we lease space in our properties are obligated by law to comply with the ada provisions, and typically under tenant leases are obligated to cover costs associated with compliance, if required changes involve greater expenditures than anticipated, or if the changes must be made on a more accelerated basis than anticipated, the ability of these tenants to cover costs may be adversely affected. in addition, we are required to operate the properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental entities and become applicable to the properties. we may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with these requirements, and these expenditures may have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our financial obligations and make distributions to our stock and unit holders. the unauthorized access, use, theft or destruction of tenant or employee personal, financial or other data or of regency's proprietary or confidential information stored in our information systems or by third parties on our behalf could impact our reputation and brand and expose us to potential liability and loss of revenues. many of our information technology systems (including those we use for administration, accounting, and communications, as well as the systems of our co-investment partners and other third-party business partners and service providers, whether cloud-based or hosted in proprietary servers) contain personal, financial or other information that is entrusted to us by our tenants and employees. many of our information technology systems also contain proprietary regency information and other confidential information related to our business. we are frequently subject to attempts to compromise our information technology systems. to the extent we or a third party were to experience a material breach of our or such third party's information technology systems that result in the unauthorized access, theft, use, destruction or other compromises of tenants' or employees' data or confidential information of the company stored in such systems, including through cyber-attacks or other external or internal methods, such a breach may damage our reputation and cause us to lose tenants and revenues, generate third party claims and the potential disruption to our business and plans. such security breaches also could result in a violation of applicable u.s. privacy and other laws, and subject us to private consumer, business partner, or securities litigation and governmental investigations and proceedings, any of which could result in our exposure to material civil or criminal liability, and we may not be able to recover these expenses from our service providers, responsible parties, or insurance carriers. the techniques and sophistication used to conduct cyber-attacks and breaches of information technology systems, as well as the sources and targets of these attacks, change frequently and are often not recognized until such attacks are launched or have been in place for a period of time. the company manages cyber risk by evaluating the impact of a potential cyber breach on our business and determining the level of investment in the prevention, detection and response to a breach. we continue to make significant investments in technology, third-party services and personnel to develop and implement systems and processes that are designed to anticipate cyber-attacks and to prevent or minimize breaches of our information technology systems or data loss, but these security measures cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in preventing such breaches or data loss. 11 risk factors related to our partnerships and joint ventures we do not have voting control over properties owned in our co-investment partnerships and joint ventures, so we are unable to ensure that our objectives will be pursued. we have invested substantial capital as a partner in a number of partnerships and joint ventures to acquire, own, lease, develop or redevelop properties. these activities are subject to the same risks as our investments in our wholly-owned properties. these investments, and other future similar investments may involve risks that would not be present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners or other owners might become bankrupt, suffer a deterioration in their creditworthiness, or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. partners or other owners may have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our own business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. these investments, and other future similar investments, also have the potential risk of creating impasses on decisions, such as a sale or financing, because neither we nor our partner or other owner has full control over the partnership or joint venture. disputes between us and partners or other owners might result in litigation or arbitration that may increase our expenses and prevent management from focusing their time and efforts on our business. consequently, actions by, or disputes with, partners or other owners might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. in addition, we risk the possibility of being liable for the actions of our partners or other owners. these factors may limit the return that we receive from such investments or cause our cash flows to be lower than our estimates. the termination of our partnerships may adversely affect our cash flow, operating results, and our ability to make distributions to stock and unit holders. if partnerships owning a significant number of properties were dissolved for any reason, we could lose the asset, property management, leasing and construction management fees from these partnerships, which may adversely affect our operating results and our cash available for distribution to stock and unit holders. risk factors related to funding strategies and capital structure higher market capitalization rates and lower noi at our properties may adversely impact our ability to sell properties and fund developments and acquisitions, and may dilute earnings. as part of our funding strategy, we sell operating properties that no longer meet our investment standards or those with a limited future growth profile. these sales proceeds are used to fund the construction of new developments, redevelopments, and repay debt and acquisitions. an increase in market capitalization rates or a decline in noi may cause a reduction in the value of centers identified for sale, which would have an adverse impact on the amount of cash generated. in order to meet the cash requirements of our development program, we may be required to sell more properties than initially planned, which may have a negative impact on our earnings. additionally, the sale of properties resulting in significant tax gains may require higher distributions to our stockholders or payment of additional income taxes in order to maintain our reit status. we intend to utilize 1031 exchanges to mitigate taxable income, however there can be no assurance that we will identify properties that meet our investment objectives for acquisitions. we depend on external sources of capital, which may not be available in the future on favorable terms or at all. to qualify as a reit, the parent company must, among other things, distribute to its stockholders each year at least 90% of its reit taxable income (excluding any net capital gains). because of these distribution requirements, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs with income from operations. we therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. our access to debt depends on our credit rating, the willingness of creditors to lend to us and conditions in the capital markets. in addition to finding creditors willing to lend to us, we are dependent upon our joint venture partners to contribute their pro rata share of any amount needed to repay or refinance existing debt when lenders reduce the amount of debt our partnerships and joint ventures are eligible to refinance. in addition, our existing debt arrangements also impose covenants that limit our flexibility in obtaining other financing. additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of stockholders' interests and additional debt financing may substantially increase our degree of leverage. without access to external sources of capital, we would be required to pay outstanding debt with our operating cash flows and proceeds from property sales. our operating cash flows may not be sufficient to pay our outstanding debt as it comes due and real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly at a return we believe is appropriate. if we are required to 12 deleverage our business with operating cash flows and proceeds from property sales, we may be forced to reduce the amount of, or eliminate altogether, our distributions to stock and unit holders or refrain from making investments in our business. our debt financing may adversely affect our business and financial condition. our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our indebtedness will depend primarily on our future performance, which to a certain extent is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. in addition, we do not expect to generate sufficient operating cash flow to make balloon principal payments on our debt when due. if we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, we may be forced (i) to dispose of properties, which might result in losses, or (ii) to obtain financing at unfavorable terms, either of which may reduce the cash flow available for distributions to stock and unit holders. if we cannot make required mortgage payments, the mortgagee may foreclose on the property securing the mortgage. covenants in our debt agreements may restrict our operating activities and adversely affect our financial condition. our unsecured notes, unsecured term loans, and unsecured line of credit contain customary covenants, including compliance with financial ratios, such as ratio of total debt to gross asset value and fixed charge coverage ratio. fixed charge coverage ratio is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("ebitda") divided by the sum of interest expense and scheduled mortgage principal paid to our lenders plus dividends paid to our preferred stockholders, if any. these covenants may limit our operational flexibility and our acquisition activities. moreover, if we breach any of the covenants in our debt agreements, and do not cure the breach within the applicable cure period, our lenders may require us to repay the debt immediately, even in the absence of a payment default. many of our debt arrangements, including our unsecured notes, unsecured term loans, and unsecured line of credit are cross-defaulted, which means that the lenders under those debt arrangements can put us in default and require immediate repayment of their debt if we breach and fail to cure a default under certain of our other material debt obligations. as a result, any default under our debt covenants may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, our results of operations, our ability to meet our obligations, and the market value of our stock. the interest rates on our unsecured credit facilities as well as on our variable rate mortgages and interest rate swaps might change based on changes to the method in which libor or its replacement rate is determined. libor, the london interbank offered rate, is the basic rate of interest used in lending transactions between banks on the london interbank market, and is widely used as a reference for setting the interest rate on loans globally. we have unsecured credit facilities, variable rate mortgages, and interest rate swaps with variable interest rates or options for such that are based upon an annual rate of libor plus a spread. libor rates charged on such debt and swaps change monthly. on july 27, 2017, the united kingdom's financial conduct authority, which regulates libor, announced that it intends to phase out libor by the end of 2021. the alternative reference rates committee ("arrc"), a steering committee comprised of large u.s. financial institutions, has proposed replacing usd-libor with a new index calculated by short term repurchase agreements - the secured overnight financing rate ("sofr"). the replacement for libor at this time is still uncertain. if libor ceases to exist, the administrative agent under our line of credit may, to the extent practicable (and with our consent but subject to certain objection rights on the part of the line lenders) establish a replacement rate for libor, which must be determined generally in accordance with similar situations in other transactions in which it is serving as administrative agent or otherwise consistent with market practice generally). establishing a replacement rate for libor in this manner may result in interest obligations which are more than or do not otherwise correlate over time with the payments that would have been made on the line if libor was available in its current form. our other debt based upon libor will experience similar types of adjustments. such adjustments could have an adverse impact on our financing costs. increases in interest rates would cause our borrowing costs to rise and negatively impact our results of operations. although a significant amount of our outstanding debt has fixed interest rates, we do borrow funds at variable interest rates under our credit facilities and term loans. as of december 31, 2018 , 4.9% of our outstanding debt was variable rate debt. increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense on any variable rate debt to the extent we have not hedged our exposure to changes in interest rates. in addition, increases in interest rates will affect the terms under which we refinance our existing debt as it matures, to the extent we have not hedged our exposure to changes in interest rates. this would reduce our future earnings and cash flows, which may adversely affect our ability to service our debt and meet our other obligations and also may reduce the amount we are able to distribute to our stock and unit holders. 13 hedging activity may expose us to risks, including the risks that a counterparty will not perform and that the hedge will not yield the economic benefits we anticipate, which may adversely affect us. from time to time, we manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements that involve risk, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, and that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes. there can be no assurance that our hedging arrangements will qualify for hedge accounting or that our hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations. should we desire to terminate a hedging agreement, there may be significant costs and cash requirements involved to fulfill our obligations under the hedging agreement. failure to hedge effectively against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. we may acquire properties or portfolios of properties through tax-deferred contribution transactions, which may result in stockholder dilution and limit our ability to sell such assets. we may acquire properties or portfolios of properties through tax deferred contribution transactions in exchange for partnership interests in our operating partnership, which may result in stockholder dilution. this acquisition structure may have the effect of, among other things, reducing the amount of tax depreciation we may deduct over the tax life of the acquired properties, and may require that we agree to protect the contributors' ability to defer recognition of taxable gain through restrictions on our ability to dispose of the acquired properties and/or the allocation of partnership debt to the contributors to maintain their tax bases. these restrictions may limit our ability to sell an asset at a time, or on terms, that would be favorable absent such restrictions. risk factors related to our company and the market price for our securities changes in economic and market conditions may adversely affect the market price of our securities. the market price of our debt and equity securities may fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, many of which are out of our control, including: actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates; publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry in general and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other reit's; the ability of our tenants to pay rent and meet their other obligations to us under current lease terms and our ability to re-lease space as leases expire; increases in market interest rates that drive purchasers of our stock to demand a higher dividend yield; changes in market valuations of similar companies; adverse market reaction to any additional debt we incur in the future; any future issuances of equity securities; additions or departures of key management personnel; strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; actions by institutional stockholders; changes in our dividend payments; potential tax law changes on reits; speculation in the press or investment community; and general market and economic conditions. these factors may cause the market price of our securities to decline, regardless of our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. it is impossible to ensure that the market price of our securities, including our common stock, will not fall in the future. a decrease in the market price of our common stock may reduce our ability to raise additional equity in the public markets. selling common stock at a decreased market price would have a dilutive impact on existing stockholders. there is no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends at historical rates. our ability to continue to pay dividends at historical rates or to increase our dividend rate will depend on a number of factors, including, among others, the following: our financial condition and results of future operations; the terms of our loan covenants; and our ability to acquire, finance, develop or redevelop and lease additional properties at attractive rates. 14 if we do not maintain or periodically increase the dividend on our common stock, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and other securities. corporate responsibility, specifically related to environmental, social and governance factors, may impose additional costs and expose us to new risks. regency, as well as investors, are focused on corporate responsibility, specifically related to environmental, social and governance factors. some investors may use these factors to guide their investment strategies. third-party providers of corporate responsibility ratings and reports on companies have increased to meet growing investor demand for measurement of corporate responsibility performance. although we have scored highly in these metrics to date, there can be no assurance that we will continue to score highly in the future. in addition, the criteria by which companies are rated may change, which could cause us to perform worse than in the past. we may face reputational damage in the event our corporate responsibility procedures or standards do not meet the standards set by various constituencies. furthermore, should our competitors outperform us in such metrics, potential or current investors may elect to invest with our competition instead. the occurrence of any of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on the price of our shares and our business, financial condition and results of operations, including increased capital expenditures and or increased operating expenses. risk factors related to laws and regulations if the parent company fails to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, it would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. we believe that the parent company qualifies for taxation as a reit for federal income tax purposes, and we plan to operate so that we can continue to meet the requirements for taxation as a reit. if the parent company continues to qualify as a reit, it generally will not be subject to federal income tax on income that we distribute to our stockholders. many reit requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. the determination that the parent company is a reit requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances, some of which may not be totally within our control and some of which involve questions of interpretation. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income must come from specific passive sources, like rent, that are itemized in the reit tax laws. there can be no assurance that the internal revenue service ( irs ) or a court would agree with the positions we have taken in interpreting the reit requirements. we are also required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income, excluding capital gains. we will be subject to u.s. federal income tax on our undistributed taxable income and net capital gain and to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on any amount by which distributions we pay with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. the fact that we hold many of our assets through co-investment partnerships and their subsidiaries further complicates the application of the reit requirements. furthermore, congress and the irs might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings, that make it more difficult for the parent company to remain qualified as a reit. also, unless the irs granted relief under certain statutory provisions, the parent company would remain disqualified as a reit for four years following the year it first failed to qualify. if the parent company failed to qualify as a reit (currently and/or with respect to any tax years for which the statute of limitations has not expired), we would have to pay significant income taxes, reducing cash available to pay dividends, which would likely have a significant adverse effect on the value of our securities. in addition, we would no longer be required to pay any dividends to stockholders in order to maintain our reit status. although we believe that the parent company qualifies as a reit, we cannot be assured that the parent company will continue to qualify or remain qualified as a reit for tax purposes. even if the parent company qualifies as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay certain federal, state, and local taxes on our income and property. for example, if we have net income from prohibited transactions, that income will be subject to a 100% tax. in general, prohibited transactions include sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. the determination as to whether a particular sale is a prohibited transaction depends on the facts and circumstances related to that sale. while we have undertaken a significant number of asset sales in recent years, we do not believe that those sales should be considered prohibited transactions, but there can be no assurance that the irs would not contend otherwise. new legislation, as well as new regulations, administrative interpretations, or court decisions may be introduced, enacted, or promulgated from time to time, that may change the tax laws or interpretations of the tax laws regarding qualification as a reit, or the federal income tax consequences of that qualification, in a manner that is adverse to our stockholders. 15 recent changes to the u.s. tax laws may have a significant negative impact on the overall economy, our tenants, our investors, and our business. the tax cuts and jobs act made significant changes to the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the "code"). while the changes in the tax cuts and jobs act generally appear to be favorable with respect to reits, the extensive changes to non-reit provisions in the code may have unanticipated effects on us or our stockholders, including our taxable income, the amount of distributions to our stockholders required in order to maintain our reit status, and our relative tax advantage as a reit. the long-term impact of the tax cuts and jobs act on the overall economy, government revenues, our tenants, us, and the real estate industry cannot be reliably predicted at this stage of the new law's implementation. furthermore, the tax cuts and jobs act may negatively impact certain of our tenants' operating results, financial condition, and future business plans. the tax cuts and jobs act may also result in reduced government revenues, and therefore reduced government spending, which may negatively impact some of our tenants that rely on government funding. there can be no assurance that the tax cuts and jobs act will not negatively impact our operating results, financial condition, and future business operations. dividends paid by reits generally do not qualify for reduced tax rates. subject to limited exceptions, dividends paid by reits (other than distributions designated as capital gain dividends, qualified dividends or returns of capital) are not eligible for reduced rates for qualified dividends paid by "c" corporations and are taxable at ordinary income tax rates. the more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends may cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in reits to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-reit corporations that pay dividends, which may adversely affect the value of the shares of reits, including the shares of our capital stock. under the recently passed tax cuts and jobs act, the rate brackets for non-corporate taxpayer's ordinary income are adjusted, the top tax rate is reduced from 39.6% to 37% (excluding the 3.8% medicare tax on net investment income), and ordinary reit dividends are taxed at even lower effective rates. under the tax cuts and jobs act, for taxable years beginning after december 31, 2017 and before january 1, 2026, distributions from reits that are treated as dividends but are not designated as qualified dividends or capital gain dividends are generally taxed as ordinary income after deducting 20% of the amount of the dividend in the case of non-corporate stockholders. at the maximum ordinary income tax rate of 37% applicable for taxable years beginning after december 31, 2017 and before january 1, 2026, the maximum tax rate on ordinary reit dividends for non-corporate stockholders is generally 29.6% (plus the 3.8% medicare tax on net investment income). foreign stockholders may be subject to u.s. federal income tax on gain recognized on a disposition of our common stock if we do not qualify as a "domestically controlled" reit. a foreign person disposing of a u.s. real property interest, including shares of a u.s. corporation whose assets consist principally of u.s. real property interests is generally subject to u.s. federal income tax on any gain recognized on the disposition. this tax does not apply, however, to the disposition of stock in a reit if the reit is "domestically controlled." in general, we will be a domestically controlled reit if at all times during the five-year period ending on the applicable stockholder's disposition of our stock, less than 50% in value of our stock was held directly or indirectly by non-u.s. persons. if we were to fail to qualify as a domestically controlled reit, gain recognized by a foreign stockholder on a disposition of our common stock would be subject to u.s. federal income tax unless our common stock was traded on an established securities market and the foreign stockholder did not at any time during a specified testing period directly or indirectly own more than 10% of our outstanding common stock. legislative or other actions affecting reits may have a negative effect on us. the rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the irs and the u.s. department of the treasury. changes to the tax laws, with or without retroactive application, may adversely affect regency or our investors. we cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect regency or our investors. new legislation, treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify as a reit or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification, or the federal income tax consequences of an investment in us. also, the law relating to the tax treatment of other entities, or an investment in other entities, may change, making an investment in such other entities more attractive relative to an investment in a reit. complying with reit requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities. the reit provisions of the code limit our ability to hedge our liabilities. generally, income from a hedging transaction that constitutes qualifying income for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests applicable to reits, does not constitute gross income for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests, provided that we properly identify the 16 hedging transaction pursuant to the applicable sections of the code and treasury regulations. to the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, or fail to make the proper tax identifications, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both gross income tests. as a result of these rules, we may need to limit our use of otherwise advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a taxable reit subsidiary ("trs"). changes in accounting standards may impact our financial results. the financial accounting standards board ("fasb"), in conjunction with the sec, has several key projects recently completed that will impact how we currently account for our material transactions, including lease accounting. accounting standards codification ("asc") topic 842, leases , will be adopted by the company on january 1, 2019 and, as further described in note 1(o), is expected to have an impact on our financial statements when adopted to require all of our operating leases for office, ground and equipment leases to be recorded on our balance sheet. also, we will no longer capitalize internal leasing compensation costs and legal costs associated with leasing activities under the new standard, which will result in an increase in our general and administrative costs and a direct reduction to our net income. restrictions on the ownership of the parent company's capital stock to preserve its reit status may delay or prevent a change in control. ownership of more than 7% by value of our outstanding capital stock is prohibited, with certain exceptions, by the parent company's articles of incorporation, for the purpose of maintaining its qualification as a reit. this 7% limitation may discourage a change in control and may also (i) deter tender offers for our capital stock, which offers may be attractive to our stockholders, or (ii) limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their capital stock that might otherwise exist if an investor attempted to assemble a block in excess of 7% of our outstanding capital stock or to affect a change in control. the issuance of the parent company's capital stock may delay or prevent a change in control. the parent company's articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 30,000,000 shares of preferred stock and 10,000,000 shares of special common stock and to establish the preferences and rights of any shares issued. the issuance of preferred stock or special common stock may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. the provisions of the florida business corporation act regarding affiliated transactions may also deter potential acquisitions by preventing the acquiring party from consummating a merger or other extraordinary corporate transaction without the approval of our disinterested stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to two significant components of interest rate risk: we have a line commitment, as further described in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements, which has a variable interest rate that is based upon an annual rate of libor plus 0.875% . libor rates charged on our line change monthly and the spread on the line is dependent upon maintaining specific credit ratings. if our credit ratings are downgraded, the spread on the line would increase, resulting in higher interest costs. the interest rate spread based on our credit rating ranges from libor plus 0.700% to libor plus 1.550%. we are also exposed to changes in interest rates when we refinance our existing long-term fixed rate debt. the objective of our interest rate risk management program is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows. to achieve these objectives, we borrow primarily at fixed interest rates and may enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps, or treasury locks in order to mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument. we do not enter into derivative or interest rate transactions for speculative purposes. our interest rate swaps are structured solely for the purpose of interest rate protection. we continuously monitor the capital markets and evaluate our ability to issue new debt, to repay maturing debt, or fund our commitments. based upon the current capital markets, our current credit ratings, our current capacity under our unsecured credit facilities, and the number of high quality, unencumbered properties that we own which could collateralize borrowings, we expect that we will be able to successfully issue new secured or unsecured debt to fund these debt obligations. our interest rate risk is monitored using a variety of techniques. the table below presents the principal cash flows, weighted average interest rates of remaining debt, and the fair value of total debt as of december 31, 2018 (dollars in thousands). the table is presented by year of expected maturity to evaluate the expected cash flows and sensitivity to interest rate changes. although the average interest rate for variable rate debt is included in the table, those rates represent rates that existed as of december 31, 2018 and are subject to change on a monthly basis. in addition, the company continually assesses the market risk for its floating rate debt and believes that a 1% increase in interest rates would decrease future earnings and cash flows by approximately $1.8 million per year based on $38.1 million of floating rate mortgage debt and $145.0 million of floating rate line of credit debt outstanding at december 31, 2018 . if the company increases its line of credit balance in the future, additional decreases to future earnings and cash flows would occur. further, the table below incorporates only those exposures that exist as of december 31, 2018 and does not consider exposures or positions that could arise after that date. since firm commitments are not presented, the table has limited predictive value. as a result, our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to interest rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise during the period, our hedging strategies at that time, and actual interest rates. 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 thereafter total fair value fixed rate debt $22,734 389,866 300,600 582,646 69,418 2,186,859 3,552,123 3,489,384 average interest rate for all fixed rate debt (1) 3.81 % 3.86 % 3.74 % 3.93 % 3.94 % 3.98 % variable rate libor debt $ 38,059 145,000 183,059 183,287 average interest rate for all variable rate debt (1) 3.27 % 3.27 % 3.22 % % % % (1) weighted average interest rates at the end of each year presented. 63quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to interest-rate changes primarily related to the variable interest rate on the line and the refinancing of long-term debt, which currently contain fixed interest rates. our interest-rate risk management objective is to limit the impact of interest-rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. to achieve these objectives, we borrow primarily at fixed interest rates and may enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest-rate swaps, caps and treasury locks in order to mitigate our interest-rate risk on a related financial instrument. we have no plans to enter into derivative or interest-rate transactions for speculative purposes. our interest-rate risk is monitored using a variety of techniques. the table below presents the principal cash flows (in thousands), weighted average interest rates of remaining debt, and the fair value of total debt (in thousands), by year of expected maturity to evaluate the expected cash flows and sensitivity to interest-rate changes. 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 thereafter total fair value fixed rate debt $ 147,737 24,858 29,859 23,005 56,547 939,133 1,221,139 1,305,081 average interest rate for all fixed rate debt 6.91 % 6.90 % 6.87 % 6.87 % 6.81 % 6.45 % variable rate libor debt $ 32,480 235,938 268,418 268,418 average interest rate for all variable rate debt 2.15 % 2.15 % as the table incorporates only those exposures that exist as of december 31, 2004, it does not consider those exposures or positions that could arise after that date. moreover, because firm commitments are not presented in the table above, the information presented above has limited predictive value. as a result, our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to interest-rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise during the period, our hedging strategies at that time, and actual interest rates.risk factors risk factors related to our industry and real estate investments our revenues and cash flow could be adversely affected by poor market conditions where properties are geographically concentrated. regency performance depends on the economic conditions in markets in which our properties are concentrated. during the year ended december 31, 2005, our properties in california, florida and texas accounted for 52.2% of our base rent. our revenues and cash available for distribution to stockholders could be adversely affected by this geographic concentration if market conditions in these areas, such as an oversupply of retail space or a reduction in the demand for shopping centers, become more competitive relative to other geographic areas. loss of revenues from major tenants could reduce distributions to stockholders. we derive significant revenues from anchor tenants such as kroger, publix and safeway that occupy more than one center. distributions to stockholders could be adversely affected by the loss of revenues in the event a major tenant: files for bankruptcy or insolvency; 3 table of contents index to financial statements experiences a downturn in its business; materially defaults on its lease; does not renew its leases as they expire; or renews at lower rental rates. vacated anchor space, including space owned by the anchor, can reduce rental revenues generated by the shopping center because of the loss of the departed anchor tenant customer drawing power. most anchors have the right to vacate and prevent re-tenanting by paying rent for the balance of the lease term. if major tenants vacate a property, then other tenants may be entitled to terminate their leases at the property. downturns in the retailing industry likely will have a direct adverse impact on our revenues and cash flow. our properties consist primarily of grocery-anchored shopping centers. our performance therefore is generally linked to economic conditions in the market for retail space. the market for retail space has been or could be adversely affected by any of the following: the growth of super-centers, such as those operated by wal-mart, and their adverse effect on major grocery chains; the impact of increased energy costs on consumers and its consequential effect on the number of shopping visits to our centers; weakness in the national, regional and local economies; consequences of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attack against, the united states; the adverse financial condition of some large retailing companies; the ongoing consolidation in the retail sector; the excess amount of retail space in a number of markets; increasing consumer purchases through catalogs or the internet; reduction in the demand by tenants, including video rental stores, to occupy our shopping centers as a result of the internet and e-commerce; the timing and costs associated with property improvements and rentals; changes in taxation and zoning laws; and adverse government regulation. to the extent that any of these conditions occur, they are likely to impact market rents for retail space and our cash available for distribution to stockholders. unsuccessful development activities could reduce distributions to stockholders. we actively pursue development activities as opportunities arise. development activities require various government and other approvals. we may not recover our investment in development projects for which approvals are not received. we incur other risks associated with development activities, including: the risk that we may abandon development opportunities and lose our investment in these developments; 4 table of contents index to financial statements the risk that development costs of a project may exceed original estimates, possibly making the project unprofitable; lack of cash flow during the construction period; and the risk that occupancy rates and rents at a completed project will not be sufficient to make the project profitable. if we sustain material losses due to an unsuccessful development project, our cash flow available for distribution to stockholders will be reduced. we may encounter difficulties in assimilating the first washington portfolio. in june 2005, we acquired a 100-property portfolio from a joint venture between the california public employees retirement system and first washington realty, inc. although we currently own 24.95% of the portfolio through a joint venture, we will be responsible for managing the entire portfolio once first washington ends its transitional management and leasing services. the purchase agreement did not require us to acquire any first washington offices, personnel or other infrastructure. we may encounter difficulties in integrating such a large portfolio with our existing systems and personnel, which could result in additional expense and adversely affect our results of operations. uninsured loss may adversely affect distributions to stockholders. we carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, extended coverage, rental loss and environmental insurance for our properties with policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties. we believe that the insurance carried on our properties is adequate in accordance with industry standards. there are, however, some types of losses, such as from hurricanes, terrorism, wars or earthquakes, which may be uninsurable, or the cost of insuring against such losses may not be economically justifiable. if an uninsured loss occurs, we could lose both the invested capital in and anticipated revenues from the property, but we would still be obligated to repay any recourse mortgage debt on the property. in that event, our distributions to stockholders could be reduced. we face competition from numerous sources. the ownership of shopping centers is highly fragmented, with less than 10% owned by real estate investment trusts. we face competition from other real estate investment trusts as well as from numerous small owners in the acquisition, ownership and leasing of shopping centers. we compete to develop shopping centers with other real estate investment trusts engaged in development activities as well as with local, regional and national real estate developers. we compete in the acquisition of properties through proprietary research that identifies opportunities in markets with high barriers to entry and higher-than-average population growth and household income. we seek to maximize rents per square foot by establishing relationships with supermarket chains that are first or second in their markets and leasing non-anchor space in multiple centers to national or regional tenants. we compete to develop properties by applying our proprietary research methods to identify development and leasing opportunities and by pre-leasing a significant portion of a center before beginning construction. there can be no assurance, however, that other real estate owners or developers will not utilize similar research methods and target the same markets and anchor tenants that we target. these entities may successfully control these markets and tenants to our exclusion. if we cannot successfully compete in our targeted markets, our cash flow, and therefore distributions to stockholders, may be adversely affected. costs of environmental remediation could reduce our cash flow available for distribution to stockholders. under various federal, state and local laws, an owner or manager of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on the property. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. the cost of any required remediation could exceed the value of the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner. 5 table of contents index to financial statements our principal environmental risk is from dry cleaning plants that currently operate, or have operated in the past, at our shopping centers. the presence of, or the failure to properly remediate, hazardous or toxic substances may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent a contaminated property or to borrow using the property as collateral. any of these developments could reduce cash flow and distributions to stockholders. risk factors related to our acquisition structure we do not have voting control over our joint venture investments, so we are unable to ensure that our objectives will be pursued. we have invested as a co-venturer in the acquisition or development of properties. as of december 31, 2005, our investments in real estate partnerships represented 15% of our total assets. these investments involve risks not present in a wholly-owned project. we do not have voting control over the ventures. the co-venturer might (1) have interests or goals that are inconsistent with our interests or goals or (2) otherwise impede our objectives. the co-venturer also might become insolvent or bankrupt. our partnership structure may limit our flexibility to manage our assets. we invest in retail shopping centers through regency centers, l.p., the operating partnership in which we currently own 98% of the outstanding common partnership units. from time to time, we acquire properties through our operating partnership in exchange for limited partnership interests. this acquisition structure may permit limited partners who contribute properties to us to defer some, if not all, of the income tax liability that they would incur if they sold the property. properties contributed to our operating partnership may have unrealized gain attributable to the difference between the fair market value and adjusted tax basis in the properties prior to contribution. as a result, the sale of these properties could cause adverse tax consequences to the limited partners who contributed them. generally, our operating partnership has no obligation to consider the tax consequences of its actions to any limited partner. however, our operating partnership may acquire properties in the future subject to material restrictions on refinancing or resale designed to minimize the adverse tax consequences to the limited partners who contribute those properties. these restrictions could significantly reduce our flexibility to manage our assets by preventing us from reducing mortgage debt or selling a property when such a transaction might be in our best interest in order to reduce interest costs or dispose of an under-performing property. risk factors related to our capital structure our debt financing may reduce distributions to stockholders. we do not expect to generate sufficient funds from operations to make balloon principal payments when due on our debt. if we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, we might be forced (1) to dispose of properties, which might result in losses, or (2) to obtain financing at unfavorable terms. either could reduce the cash flow available for distributions to stockholders. in addition, if we cannot make required mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property securing the mortgage, causing the loss of cash flow from that property. furthermore, substantially all of our debt is cross-defaulted, which means that a default under one loan could trigger defaults under other loans. on june 1, 2005, we incurred $275 million of additional debt to complete the funding of our portion of the joint venture that acquired the first washington portfolio. as a result, our debt-to-equity ratio and the ratio of our debt-to-total assets have increased. our lenders modified our line of credit to increase our debt-to-assets leverage ratio from 0.55 to 1.00 to 0.60 to 1.00. the line of credit has also been modified to impose limitations on the amount of recourse indebtedness that can be incurred by our unconsolidated affiliates. we intend to reduce our debt ratios through our capital recycling program, in which we sell properties that no longer meet our long-term investment criteria. however, there can be no assurance that we will be able to reduce our debt ratios in accordance with our plan. we could be required to seek an extension for our line of credit modification with our lenders, and a failure to do so could result in an event of default. in addition, the rating agencies could decide to lower our debt ratings, which would increase our borrowing costs and could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on acceptable terms. 6 table of contents index to financial statements our organizational documents do not limit the amount of debt that may be incurred. the degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences, including the following: leverage could affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to repay indebtedness or for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes; leverage could make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and as a result, our leverage could lead to reduced distributions to stockholders. we depend on external sources of capital, which may not be available in the future. to qualify as a reit, we must, among other things, distribute to our stockholders each year at least 90% of our reit taxable income (excluding any net capital gains). because of these distribution requirements, we likely will not be able to fund all future capital needs, including capital for acquisitions, with income from operations. we therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. in addition, our line of credit imposes covenants that limit our flexibility in obtaining other financing, such as a prohibition on negative pledge agreements. additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of stockholders interests, and additional debt financing may substantially increase our degree of leverage. risk factors related to interest rates and the market for our stock increased interest rates may reduce distributions to stockholders. we are obligated on floating rate debt, and if we do not eliminate our exposure to increases in interest rates through interest rate protection or cap agreements, these increases may reduce cash flow and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. although swap agreements enable us to convert floating rate debt to fixed rate debt and cap agreements enable us to cap our maximum interest rate, they expose us to the risk that the counterparties to these hedge agreements may not perform, which could increase our exposure to rising interest rates. if we enter into swap agreements, decreases in interest rates will increase our interest expense as compared to the underlying floating rate debt. this could result in our making payments to unwind these agreements, such as in connection with a prepayment of the floating rate debt. cap agreements do not protect us from increases up to the capped rate. increased market interest rates could reduce our stock prices. the annual dividend rate on our common stock as a percentage of its market price may influence the trading price of our stock. an increase in market interest rates may lead purchasers to demand a higher annual dividend rate, which could adversely affect the market price of our stock. a decrease in the market price of our common stock could reduce our ability to raise additional equity in the public markets. outstanding syndecs could adversely influence the market price for our common stock. in june 2003, citigroup global markets holdings inc., or cgmhi, sold an aggregate of 8,280,000 syndecs (debt exchangeable for common stock). the syndecs are a series of debt securities of cgmhi that will each be mandatorily exchanged upon maturity, on july 1, 2006, into our common stock or its value in cash based on a formula linked to the market price of our common stock. any market for the syndecs is likely to influence the market for our common stock. for example, the price of our common stock could become more volatile and could be depressed by investors anticipation of the potential distribution into the market of substantial additional amounts of our common stock at the maturity of the syndecs, by possible sales of our common stock by investors who view the syndecs as a more attractive means of equity participation in regency and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that may develop involving the syndecs and our common stock. 7 table of contents index to financial statements risk factors related to federal income tax laws if we fail to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. we believe that we qualify for taxation as a reit for federal income tax purposes, and we plan to operate so that we can continue to meet the requirements for taxation as a reit. if we qualify as a reit, we generally will not be subject to federal income tax on our income that we distribute currently to our stockholders. many of the reit requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. the determination that we are a reit requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances, some of which may not be totally within our control and some of which involve questions of interpretation. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income must come from specific passive sources, like rent, that are itemized in the reit tax laws. there can be no assurance that the irs or a court would agree with the positions we have taken in interpreting the reit requirements. we also are required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income (excluding capital gains). the fact that we hold some of our assets through joint ventures and their subsidiaries further complicates the application of the reit requirements. even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our reit status. furthermore, congress and the internal revenue service might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings, that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified as a reit. also, unless the irs granted us relief under certain statutory provisions, we would remain disqualified as a reit for four years following the year we first failed to qualify. if we failed to qualify as a reit, we would have to pay significant income taxes. this likely would have a significant adverse affect on the value of our securities. in addition, we would no longer be required to pay any dividends to stockholders. even if we qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. for example, if we have net income from prohibited transactions, that income will be subject to a 100% tax. in general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. the determination as to whether a particular sale is a prohibited transaction depends on the facts and circumstances related to that sale. while we have undertaken a significant number of asset sales in recent years, we do not believe that those sales should be considered prohibited transactions, but there can be no assurance that the irs would not contend otherwise. in addition, any net taxable income earned directly by our taxable affiliates, including regency realty group, inc., is subject to federal and state corporate income tax. several provisions of the laws applicable to reits and their subsidiaries ensure that a taxable reit subsidiary will be subject to an appropriate level of federal income taxation. for example, a taxable reit subsidiary is limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to an affiliated reit. in addition, a reit has to pay a 100% penalty tax on some payments that it receives if the economic arrangements between the reit, the reit tenants and the taxable reit subsidiary are not comparable to similar arrangements between unrelated parties. finally, some state and local jurisdictions may tax some of our income even though as a reit we are not subject to federal income tax on that income. to the extent that we and our affiliates are required to pay federal, state and local taxes, we will have less cash available for distributions to our stockholders. a reit may not own securities in any one issuer if the value of those securities exceeds 5% of the value of the reit total assets or the securities owned by the reit represent more than 10% of the issuer outstanding voting securities or 10% of the value of the issuer outstanding securities. an exception to these tests allows a reit to own securities of a subsidiary that exceed the 5% value test and the 10% value tests if the subsidiary elects to be a taxable reit subsidiary. we are not able to own securities of taxable reit subsidiaries that represent in the aggregate more than 20% of the value of our total assets. we currently own more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of regency realty group, inc., which has elected to be a taxable reit subsidiary. risk factors related to our ownership limitations, the florida business corporation act and certain other matters restrictions on the ownership of our capital stock to preserve our reit status could delay or prevent a change in control. ownership of more than 7% by value of our outstanding capital stock by certain persons is restricted for the purpose of maintaining our qualification as a reit, with certain exceptions. this 7% limitation may discourage a 8 table of contents index to financial statements change in control and may also (i) deter tender offers for our capital stock, which offers may be attractive to our stockholders, or (ii) limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their capital stock that might otherwise exist if an investor attempted to assemble a block in excess of 7% of our outstanding capital stock or to effect a change in control. the issuance of our capital stock could delay or prevent a change in control. our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 30,000,000 shares of preferred stock and 10,000,000 shares of special common stock and to establish the preferences and rights of any shares issued. the issuance of preferred stock or special common stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control even if a change in control were in our stockholders interest. the provisions of the florida business corporation act regarding control share acquisitions and affiliated transactions could also deter potential acquisitions by preventing the acquiring party from voting the common stock it acquires or consummating a merger or other extraordinary corporate transaction without the approval of our disinterested stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to interest-rate changes primarily related to the variable interest rate on the line and the refinancing of long-term debt, which currently contain fixed interest rates. the objective of our interest-rate risk management is to limit the impact of interest-rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. to achieve these objectives, we borrow primarily at fixed interest rates and may enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest-rate swaps, caps or treasury locks in order to mitigate our interest-rate risk on a related financial instrument. we have no plans to enter into derivative or interest-rate transactions for speculative purposes. our interest-rate risk is monitored using a variety of techniques. the table below presents the principal cash flows (in thousands), weighted average interest rates of remaining debt, and the fair value of total debt (in thousands) as of december 31, 2005, by year of expected maturity to evaluate the expected cash flows and sensitivity to interest-rate changes. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 thereafter total fair value fixed rate debt $ 25,140 27,040 23,046 56,524 180,469 1,059,145 1,371,364 1,400,148 average interest rate for all fixed rate debt 6.68 % 6.65 % 6.65 % 6.59 % 6.29 % 5.79 % variable rate libor debt $ 6,968 232,938 239,906 239,906 average interest rate for all variable rate debt 4.12 % 4.12 % as the table incorporates only those exposures that exist as of december 31, 2005, it does not consider those exposures or positions that could arise after that date. moreover, because firm commitments are not presented in the table above, the information presented above has limited predictive value. as a result, our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to interest-rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise during the period, our hedging strategies at that time, and actual interest rates.risk factors risk factors related to our industry and real estate investments our revenues and cash flow could be adversely affected by poor market conditions where properties are geographically concentrated. regency performance depends on the economic conditions in markets in which our properties are concentrated. during the year ended december 31, 2006, our properties in california, florida and texas accounted for 45% of our consolidated net operating income. our revenues and cash available for distribution to stockholders could be adversely affected by this geographic concentration if market conditions in these areas, such as an oversupply of retail space or a reduction in the demand for shopping centers, become more competitive relative to other geographic areas. loss of revenues from major tenants could reduce distributions to stockholders. we derive significant revenues from anchor tenants such as kroger, publix and safeway that occupy more than one center. distributions to stockholders could be adversely affected by the loss of revenues in the event a major tenant: becomes bankrupt or insolvent; experiences a downturn in its business; materially defaults on its lease; does not renew its leases as they expire; or renews at lower rental rates. vacated anchor space, including space owned by the anchor, can reduce rental revenues generated by the shopping center because of the loss of the departed anchor tenant customer drawing power. most anchors have the right to vacate and prevent re-tenanting by paying rent for the balance of the lease term. if major tenants vacate a property, then other tenants may be entitled to terminate their leases at the property. downturns in the retailing industry likely will have a direct adverse impact on our revenues and cash flow. our properties consist primarily of grocery-anchored shopping centers. our performance therefore is generally linked to economic conditions in the market for retail space. the market for retail space has been or could be adversely affected by any of the following: the growth of super-centers, such as those operated by wal-mart, and their adverse effect on major grocery chains; the impact of increased energy costs on consumers and its consequential effect on the number of shopping visits to our centers; weakness in the national, regional and local economies; consequences of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attack against, the united states; the adverse financial condition of some large retailing companies; the ongoing consolidation in the retail sector; the excess amount of retail space in a number of markets; increasing consumer purchases through catalogs or the internet; reduction in the demand by tenants to occupy our shopping centers as a result of reduced consumer demand for certain retail formats such as video rental stores; the timing and costs associated with property improvements and rentals; changes in taxation and zoning laws; and adverse government regulation. to the extent that any of these conditions occur, they are likely to impact market rents for retail space and our cash available for distribution to stockholders. 4 table of contents unsuccessful development activities or a slowdown in development activities could reduce distributions to stockholders. we actively pursue development activities as opportunities arise. development activities require various government and other approvals for entitlements which can significantly delay the development process. we may not recover our investment in development projects for which approvals are not received. we incur other risks associated with development activities, including: the risk that the current size and continued growth in our development pipeline will strain the organization capacity to complete the developments within the targeted timelines and at the expected returns on invested capital; the risk that we may abandon development opportunities and lose our investment in these developments; the risk that development costs of a project may exceed original estimates, possibly making the project unprofitable; delays in the development and construction process; lack of cash flow during the construction period; and the risk that occupancy rates and rents at a completed project will not be sufficient to make the project profitable. if we sustain material losses due to an unsuccessful development project, our cash flow available for distribution to stockholders will be reduced. our earnings and cash flow available for distribution to stockholders also may be reduced if we experience a significant slowdown in our development activities. uninsured loss may adversely affect distributions to stockholders. we carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, extended coverage, rental loss and environmental insurance for our properties with policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties. we believe that the insurance carried on our properties is adequate in accordance with industry standards. there are, however, some types of losses, such as from hurricanes, terrorism, wars or earthquakes, which may be uninsurable, or the cost of insuring against such losses may not be economically justifiable. if an uninsured loss occurs, we could lose both the invested capital in and anticipated revenues from the property, but we would still be obligated to repay any recourse mortgage debt on the property. in that event, our distributions to stockholders could be reduced. we face competition from numerous sources. the ownership of shopping centers is highly fragmented, with less than 10% owned by real estate investment trusts. we face competition from other real estate investment trusts as well as from numerous small owners in the acquisition, ownership and leasing of shopping centers. we compete to develop shopping centers with other real estate investment trusts engaged in development activities as well as with local, regional and national real estate developers. we compete in the acquisition of properties through proprietary research that identifies opportunities in markets with high barriers to entry and higher-than-average population growth and household income. we seek to maximize rents per square foot by establishing relationships with supermarket chains that are first or second in their markets or other category-leading anchors and leasing non-anchor space in multiple centers to national or regional tenants. we compete to develop properties by applying our proprietary research methods to identify development and leasing opportunities and by pre-leasing a significant portion of a center before beginning construction. there can be no assurance, however, that other real estate owners or developers will not utilize similar research methods and target the same markets and anchor tenants that we target. these entities may successfully control these markets and tenants to our exclusion. if we cannot successfully compete in our targeted markets, our cash flow, and therefore distributions to stockholders, may be adversely affected. costs of environmental remediation could reduce our cash flow available for distribution to stockholders. under various federal, state and local laws, an owner or manager of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on the property. these laws often impose liability 5 table of contents without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. the cost of any required remediation could exceed the value of the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner. we are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations as they apply to our shopping centers pertaining to chemicals used by the dry cleaning industry, the existence of asbestos in older shopping centers, and underground petroleum storage tanks (ust s). the presence of, or the failure to properly remediate, hazardous or toxic substances may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent a contaminated property or to borrow using the property as collateral. any of these developments could reduce cash flow and distributions to stockholders. risk factors related to our joint ventures and acquisition structure we do not have voting control over our joint venture investments, so we are unable to ensure that our objectives will be pursued. we have invested as a co-venturer in the acquisition or development of properties. as of december 31, 2006, our investments in real estate partnerships represented 11.8% of our total assets. these investments involve risks not present in a wholly-owned project. we do not have voting control over the ventures. the co-venturer might (1) have interests or goals that are inconsistent with our interests or goals or (2) otherwise impede our objectives. the co-venturer also might become insolvent or bankrupt. our joint ventures account for a significant portion of our revenues and net income in the form of management fees and are an important part of our growth strategy. the termination of our joint ventures could adversely affect distributions to stockholders. our management fee income has increased significantly as our participation in joint ventures has increased. if joint ventures owning a significant number of properties were dissolved for any reason, we would lose the asset management and property management fees from these joint ventures, which could adversely affect the amount of cash available for distribution to stockholders. in addition, termination of the joint ventures without replacing them with new joint ventures could adversely affect our growth strategy. property sales to the joint ventures provide us with an important source of funding for additional developments and acquisitions. without this source of capital, our ability to grow and to increase distributions to stockholders could be adversely affected. our partnership structure may limit our flexibility to manage our assets. we invest in retail shopping centers through regency centers, l.p., the operating partnership in which we currently own 99% of the outstanding common partnership units. from time to time, we acquire properties through our operating partnership in exchange for limited partnership interests. this acquisition structure may permit limited partners who contribute properties to us to defer some, if not all, of the income tax liability that they would incur if they sold the property. properties contributed to our operating partnership may have unrealized gain attributable to the difference between the fair market value and adjusted tax basis in the properties prior to contribution. as a result, the sale of these properties could cause adverse tax consequences to the limited partners who contributed them. generally, our operating partnership has no obligation to consider the tax consequences of its actions to any limited partner. however, our operating partnership may acquire properties in the future subject to material restrictions on refinancing or resale designed to minimize the adverse tax consequences to the limited partners who contribute those properties. these restrictions could significantly reduce our flexibility to manage our assets by preventing us from reducing mortgage debt or selling a property when such a transaction might be in our best interest in order to reduce interest costs or dispose of an under-performing property. 6 table of contents risk factors related to our capital recycling and capital structure an increase in market capitalization rates could reduce the value of the centers we sell, requiring us to sell more properties than initially planned in order to fund our development program. an increase in property dispositions would dilute our earnings. as part of our capital recycling program, we sell operating properties that no longer meet our investment standards. we also develop certain retail centers because of their attractive margins with the intent of selling them to joint ventures or other third parties for a profit. these sale proceeds are used to fund the construction of new developments. an increase in market capitalization rates could cause a reduction in the value of centers identified for sale, which would have an adverse impact on our capital recycling program by reducing the amount of cash generated and profits realized. in order to meet the cash requirements of our development program, we may be required to sell more properties than initially planned, which would have a dilutive impact on our earnings. our debt financing may reduce distributions to stockholders. we do not expect to generate sufficient funds from operations to make balloon principal payments when due on our debt. if we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, we might be forced (1) to dispose of properties, which might result in losses, or (2) to obtain financing at unfavorable terms. either could reduce the cash flow available for distributions to stockholders. in addition, if we cannot make required mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property securing the mortgage, causing the loss of cash flow from that property. furthermore, substantially all of our debt is cross-defaulted, which means that a default under one loan could trigger defaults under other loans. our organizational documents do not limit the amount of debt that may be incurred. the degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences, including the following: leverage could affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to repay indebtedness or for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes; leverage could make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and as a result, our leverage could lead to reduced distributions to stockholders. covenants in our debt agreements may restrict our operating activities and adversely affect our financial condition. our revolving line of credit and our unsecured notes contain customary covenants, including compliance with financial ratios, such as ratios of total debt to gross asset value and fixed charge coverage ratios. our line of credit also restricts our ability to enter into a transaction that would result in a change of control. these covenants may limit our operational flexibility and our acquisition activities. moreover, if we breach any of these covenants, the resulting default could cause the acceleration of our indebtedness, even in the absence of a payment default. if we are not able to refinance our indebtedness after a default, or unable to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms, distributions to stockholders and our financial condition would be adversely affected. we depend on external sources of capital, which may not be available in the future. to qualify as a reit, we must, among other things, distribute to our stockholders each year at least 90% of our reit taxable income (excluding any net capital gains). because of these distribution requirements, we likely will not be able to fund all future capital needs, including capital for acquisitions, with income from operations. we therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. in addition, our line of credit imposes covenants that limit our flexibility in obtaining other financing, such as a prohibition on negative pledge agreements. 7 table of contents additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of stockholders interests, and additional debt financing may substantially increase our degree of leverage. risk factors related to interest rates and the market for our stock increased interest rates may reduce distributions to stockholders. we are obligated on floating rate debt, and if we do not eliminate our exposure to increases in interest rates through interest rate protection or cap agreements, these increases may reduce cash flow and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. although swap agreements enable us to convert floating rate debt to fixed rate debt and cap agreements enable us to cap our maximum interest rate, they expose us to the risk that the counterparties to these hedge agreements may not perform, which could increase our exposure to rising interest rates. if we enter into swap agreements, decreases in interest rates will increase our interest expense as compared to the underlying floating rate debt. this could result in our making payments to unwind these agreements, such as in connection with a prepayment of the floating rate debt. cap agreements do not protect us from increases up to the capped rate. increased market interest rates could reduce our stock prices. the annual dividend rate on our common stock as a percentage of its market price may influence the trading price of our stock. an increase in market interest rates may lead purchasers to demand a higher annual dividend rate, which could adversely affect the market price of our stock. a decrease in the market price of our common stock could reduce our ability to raise additional equity in the public markets. selling common stock at a decreased market price would have a dilutive impact on existing shareholders. risk factors related to federal income tax laws if we fail to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. we believe that we qualify for taxation as a reit for federal income tax purposes, and we plan to operate so that we can continue to meet the requirements for taxation as a reit. if we qualify as a reit, we generally will not be subject to federal income tax on our income that we distribute currently to our stockholders. many of the reit requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. the determination that we are a reit requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances, some of which may not be totally within our control and some of which involve questions of interpretation. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income must come from specific passive sources, like rent, that are itemized in the reit tax laws. there can be no assurance that the irs or a court would agree with the positions we have taken in interpreting the reit requirements. we also are required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income (excluding capital gains). the fact that we hold many of our assets through joint ventures and their subsidiaries further complicates the application of the reit requirements. even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our reit status. furthermore, congress and the internal revenue service might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings, that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified as a reit. also, unless the irs granted us relief under certain statutory provisions, we would remain disqualified as a reit for four years following the year we first failed to qualify. if we failed to qualify as a reit, we would have to pay significant income taxes. this likely would have a significant adverse affect on the value of our securities. in addition, we would no longer be required to pay any dividends to stockholders. even if we qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. for example, if we have net income from prohibited transactions, that income will be subject to a 100% tax. in general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. the determination as to whether a particular sale is a prohibited transaction depends on the facts and circumstances related to that sale. while we have undertaken a significant number of asset sales in recent years, we do not believe that those sales should be considered prohibited transactions, but there can be no assurance that the irs would not contend otherwise. 8 table of contents in addition, any net taxable income earned directly by our taxable affiliates, including regency realty group, inc., is subject to federal and state corporate income tax. several provisions of the laws applicable to reits and their subsidiaries ensure that a taxable reit subsidiary will be subject to an appropriate level of federal income taxation. for example, a taxable reit subsidiary is limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to an affiliated reit. in addition, a reit has to pay a 100% penalty tax on some payments that it receives if the economic arrangements between the reit, the reit tenants and the taxable reit subsidiary are not comparable to similar arrangements between unrelated parties. finally, some state and local jurisdictions may tax some of our income even though as a reit we are not subject to federal income tax on that income. to the extent that we and our affiliates are required to pay federal, state and local taxes, we will have less cash available for distributions to our stockholders. a reit may not own securities in any one issuer if the value of those securities exceeds 5% of the value of the reit total assets or the securities owned by the reit represent more than 10% of the issuer outstanding voting securities or 10% of the value of the issuer outstanding securities. an exception to these tests allows a reit to own securities of a subsidiary that exceed the 5% value test and the 10% value tests if the subsidiary elects to be a taxable reit subsidiary. we are not able to own securities of taxable reit subsidiaries that represent in the aggregate more than 20% of the value of our total assets. we currently own more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of regency realty group, inc., which has elected to be a taxable reit subsidiary. risk factors related to our ownership limitations, the florida business corporation act and certain other matters restrictions on the ownership of our capital stock to preserve our reit status could delay or prevent a change in control. ownership of more than 7% by value of our outstanding capital stock by certain persons is restricted for the purpose of maintaining our qualification as a reit, with certain exceptions. this 7% limitation may discourage a change in control and may also (i) deter tender offers for our capital stock, which offers may be attractive to our stockholders, or (ii) limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their capital stock that might otherwise exist if an investor attempted to assemble a block in excess of 7% of our outstanding capital stock or to effect a change in control. the issuance of our capital stock could delay or prevent a change in control. our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 30,000,000 shares of preferred stock and 10,000,000 shares of special common stock and to establish the preferences and rights of any shares issued. the issuance of preferred stock or special common stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control even if a change in control were in our stockholders interest. the provisions of the florida business corporation act regarding control share acquisitions and affiliated transactions could also deter potential acquisitions by preventing the acquiring party from voting the common stock it acquires or consummating a merger or other extraordinary corporate transaction without the approval of our disinterested stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to interest-rate changes primarily related to the variable interest rate on the line and the refinancing of long-term debt, which currently contain fixed interest rates. the objective of our interest-rate risk management is to limit the impact of interest-rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. to achieve these objectives, we borrow primarily at fixed interest rates and may enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest-rate swaps, caps or treasury locks in order to mitigate our interest-rate risk on a related financial instrument. we do not enter into derivative or interest-rate transactions for speculative purposes. our interest-rate risk is monitored using a variety of techniques. the table below presents the principal cash flows (in thousands), weighted average interest rates of remaining debt, and the fair value of total debt (in thousands) as of december 31, 2006, by year of expected maturity to evaluate the expected cash flows and sensitivity to interest-rate changes. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 thereafter total fair value fixed rate debt $ 26,977 22,970 56,440 180,398 254,314 843,056 1,384,155 1,440,585 average interest rate for all fixed rate debt 6.61 % 6.61 % 6.55 % 6.26 % 5.77 % 5.77 % variable rate libor debt $ 189,662 189,662 189,662 average interest rate for all variable rate debt 5.64 % we currently have $434.7 million of fixed rate debt maturing in 2010 and 2011. on march 10, 2006, the company entered into four forward-starting interest rate swaps totaling $396.7 million with fixed rates of 5.399%, 5.415%, 5.399% and 5.415%. the company designated these swaps as cash flow hedges to fix $400 million of fixed rate financing expected to occur in 2010 and 2011, the proceeds of which will be used to repay debt maturing in those years. the change in fair value of these swaps from inception has generated a liability of $2.9 million at december 31, 2006, which is recorded in accounts payable and other liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. as the table incorporates only those exposures that exist as of december 31, 2006, it does not consider those exposures or positions that could arise after that date. moreover, because firm commitments are not presented in the table above, the information presented above has limited predictive value. as a result, our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to interest-rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise during the period, our hedging strategies at that time, and actual interest rates. 54 table of contentsrisk factors risk factors related to our industry and real estate investments our revenues and cash flow could be adversely affected by poor market conditions where properties are geographically concentrated. regency performance depends on the economic conditions in markets in which our properties are concentrated. during the year ended december 31, 2007, our properties in california, florida and texas accounted for 58.4% of our consolidated net operating income. our revenues and cash available for distribution to stockholders could be adversely affected by this geographic concentration if market conditions in these areas, such as an oversupply of retail space or a reduction in the demand for shopping centers, become more competitive relative to other geographic areas. loss of revenues from major tenants could reduce distributions to stockholders. we derive significant revenues from anchor tenants such as kroger, publix and safeway that occupy more than one center. distributions to stockholders could be adversely affected by the loss of revenues in the event a major tenant: becomes bankrupt or insolvent; experiences a downturn in its business; materially defaults on its leases; does not renew its leases as they expire; or renews at lower rental rates. vacated anchor space, including space owned by the anchor, can reduce rental revenues generated by the shopping center because of the loss of the departed anchor tenant customer drawing power. most anchors have the right to vacate and prevent re-tenanting by paying rent for the balance of the lease term. if major tenants vacate a property, then other tenants may be entitled to terminate their leases at the property. downturns in the retailing industry likely will have a direct adverse impact on our revenues and cash flow. our properties consist primarily of grocery-anchored shopping centers. our performance therefore is generally linked to economic conditions in the market for retail space. the market for retail space has been or could be adversely affected by any of the following: weakness in the national, regional and local economies, which could adversely impact consumer spending and retail sales and in turn tenant demand for space; the growth of super-centers, such as those operated by wal-mart, and their adverse effect on major grocery chains; the impact of increased energy costs on consumers and its consequential effect on the number of shopping visits to our centers; consequences of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attack against, the united states; the adverse financial condition of some large retailing companies; the ongoing consolidation in the retail sector; the excess amount of retail space in a number of markets; 4 table of contents index to financial statements increasing consumer purchases through catalogs or the internet; reduction in the demand by tenants to occupy our shopping centers as a result of reduced consumer demand for certain retail formats such as video rental stores; the timing and costs associated with property improvements and rentals; changes in taxation and zoning laws; and adverse government regulation. to the extent that any of these conditions occur, they are likely to impact market rents for retail space, occupancy in the operating portfolios, our ability to recycle capital, and our cash available for distribution to stockholders. unsuccessful development activities or a slowdown in development activities could reduce distributions to stockholders. we actively pursue development activities as opportunities arise. development activities require various government and other approvals for entitlements which can significantly delay the development process. we may not recover our investment in development projects for which approvals are not received. we incur other risks associated with development activities, including: the ability to lease up developments to full occupancy on a timely basis; the risk that occupancy rates and rents of a completed project will not be sufficient to make the project profitable and available for contribution to our co-investment partnerships or sale to third parties. the risk that the current size and continued growth in our development pipeline will strain the organization's capacity to complete the developments within the targeted timelines and at the expected returns on invested capital; the risk that we may abandon development opportunities and lose our investment in these developments; the risk that development costs of a project may exceed original estimates, possibly making the project unprofitable; delays in the development and construction process; lack of cash flow during the construction period; and if developments are unsuccessful, funding provided from contributions to co-investment partnerships and sales to third parties may be materially reduced and our cash flow available for distribution to stockholders will be reduced. our earnings and cash flow available for distribution to stockholders also may be reduced if we experience a significant slowdown in our development activities. uninsured loss may adversely affect distributions to stockholders. we carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, extended coverage, rental loss and environmental insurance for our properties with policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties. we believe that the insurance carried on our properties is adequate in accordance with industry standards. there are, however, some types of losses, such as from hurricanes, terrorism, wars or earthquakes, which may be uninsurable, or the cost of insuring against such losses may not be economically justifiable. if an uninsured loss occurs, we could lose both the invested capital in and anticipated revenues from the property, but we would still be obligated to repay any recourse mortgage debt on the property. in that event, our distributions to stockholders could be reduced. we face competition from numerous sources. the ownership of shopping centers is highly fragmented, with less than 10% owned by real estate investment trusts. we face competition from other real estate investment trusts as well as from numerous small owners in the acquisition, ownership and leasing of shopping centers. we compete to develop shopping centers with other real estate investment trusts engaged in development activities as well as with local, regional and national real estate developers. 5 table of contents index to financial statements we compete in the acquisition of properties through proprietary research that identifies opportunities in markets with high barriers to entry and higher-than-average population growth and household income. we seek to maximize rents per square foot by (1) establishing relationships with supermarket chains that are first or second in their markets or other category-leading anchors and (2) leasing non-anchor space in multiple centers to national or regional tenants. we compete to develop properties by applying our proprietary research methods to identify development and leasing opportunities and by pre-leasing a significant portion of a center before beginning construction. there can be no assurance, however, that other real estate owners or developers will not utilize similar research methods and target the same markets and anchor tenants that we target. these entities may successfully control these markets and tenants to our exclusion. if we cannot successfully compete in our targeted markets, our cash flow, and therefore distributions to stockholders, may be adversely affected. costs of environmental remediation could reduce our cash flow available for distribution to stockholders. under various federal, state and local laws, an owner or manager of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on the property. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. the cost of any required remediation could exceed the value of the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner. we are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations as they apply to our shopping centers pertaining to chemicals used by the dry cleaning industry, the existence of asbestos in older shopping centers, and underground petroleum storage tanks (ust s). the presence of, or the failure to properly remediate, hazardous or toxic substances may adversely affect our ability to sell or rent a contaminated property or to borrow using the property as collateral. any of these developments could reduce cash flow and distributions to stockholders. risk factors related to our co-investment partnerships and acquisition structure we do not have voting control over our joint venture investments, so we are unable to ensure that our objectives will be pursued. we have invested as a co-venturer in the acquisition or development of properties. as of december 31, 2007, our investments in real estate partnerships represented 10.4% of our total assets. these investments involve risks not present in a wholly-owned project. we do not have voting control over the ventures. the co-venturer might (1) have interests or goals that are inconsistent with our interests or goals or (2) otherwise impede our objectives. the co-venturer also might become insolvent or bankrupt. our co-investment partnerships account for a significant portion of our revenues and net income in the form of management fees and are an important part of our growth strategy. the termination of our co-investment partnerships could adversely affect distributions to stockholders. our management fee income has increased significantly as our participation in co-investment partnerships has increased. if co-investment partnerships owning a significant number of properties were dissolved for any reason, we would lose the asset management and property management fees from these co-investment partnerships, which could adversely affect our ability to recycle capital and fund developments and acquisitions and the amount of cash available for distribution to stockholders. in addition, termination of the co-investment partnerships without replacing them with new co-investment partnerships could adversely affect our growth strategy. property sales to the co-investment partnerships provide us with an important source of funding for additional developments and acquisitions. without this source of capital, our ability to recycle capital, fund developments and acquisitions and to increase distributions to stockholders could be adversely affected. 6 table of contents index to financial statements our partnership structure may limit our flexibility to manage our assets. we invest in retail shopping centers through regency centers, l.p., the operating partnership in which we currently own 99% of the outstanding common partnership units. from time to time, we acquire properties through our operating partnership in exchange for limited partnership interests. this acquisition structure may permit limited partners who contribute properties to us to defer some, if not all, of the income tax liability that they would incur if they sold the property for cash. properties contributed to our operating partnership may have unrealized gain attributable to the difference between the fair market value and adjusted tax basis in the properties prior to contribution. as a result, our sale of these properties could cause adverse tax consequences to the limited partners who contributed them. generally, our operating partnership has no obligation to consider the tax consequences of its actions to any limited partner. however, our operating partnership may acquire properties in the future subject to material restrictions on refinancing or resale designed to minimize the adverse tax consequences to the limited partners who contribute those properties. these restrictions could significantly reduce our flexibility to manage our assets by preventing us from reducing mortgage debt or selling a property when such a transaction might be in our best interest in order to reduce interest costs or dispose of an under-performing property. risk factors related to our capital recycling and capital structure a reduction in the availability of capital, an increase in the cost of capital, and higher market capitalization rates could adversely impact regency ability to recycle capital and fund developments and acquisitions, and could dilute earnings. as part of our capital recycling program, we sell operating properties that no longer meet our investment standards. we also develop certain retail centers because of their attractive margins with the intent of selling them to co-investment partnerships or other third parties for a profit. these sale proceeds are used to fund the construction of new developments. an increase in market capitalization rates could cause a reduction in the value of centers identified for sale, which would have an adverse impact on our capital recycling program by reducing the amount of cash generated and profits realized. in order to meet the cash requirements of our development program, we may be required to sell more properties than initially planned, which would have a dilutive impact on our earnings. our debt financing may reduce distributions to stockholders. we do not expect to generate sufficient funds from operations to make balloon principal payments when due on our debt. if we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, we might be forced (1) to dispose of properties, which might result in losses, or (2) to obtain financing at unfavorable terms. either could reduce the cash flow available for distributions to stockholders. in addition, if we cannot make required mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property securing the mortgage, causing the loss of cash flow from that property. furthermore, substantially all of our debt is cross-defaulted, which means that a default under one loan could trigger defaults under other loans. our organizational documents do not limit the amount of debt that may be incurred. the degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences, including the following: leverage could affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to repay indebtedness or for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development or other general corporate purposes; leverage could make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and as a result, our leverage could lead to reduced distributions to stockholders. covenants in our debt agreements may restrict our operating activities and adversely affect our financial condition. our revolving line of credit and our unsecured notes contain customary covenants, including compliance with financial ratios, such as ratios of total debt to gross asset value and fixed charge coverage ratios. our line of credit also 7 table of contents index to financial statements restricts our ability to enter into a transaction that would result in a change of control. these covenants may limit our operational flexibility and our acquisition activities. moreover, if we breach any of these covenants, the resulting default could cause the acceleration of our indebtedness, even in the absence of a payment default. if we are not able to refinance our indebtedness after a default, or unable to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms, distributions to stockholders and our financial condition would be adversely affected. we depend on external sources of capital, which may not be available in the future. to qualify as a reit, we must, among other things, distribute to our stockholders each year at least 90% of our reit taxable income (excluding any net capital gains). because of these distribution requirements, we likely will not be able to fund all future capital needs, including capital for acquisitions or developments, with income from operations. we therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. in addition, our line of credit imposes covenants that limit our flexibility in obtaining other financing, such as a prohibition on negative pledge agreements. additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of stockholders interests, and additional debt financing may substantially increase our degree of leverage. risk factors related to interest rates and the market for our stock increased interest rates may reduce distributions to stockholders. we are obligated on floating rate debt, and if we do not eliminate our exposure to increases in interest rates through interest rate protection or cap agreements, these increases may reduce cash flow and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. although swap agreements enable us to convert floating rate debt to fixed rate debt and cap agreements enable us to cap our maximum interest rate, they expose us to the risk that the counterparties to these hedge agreements may not perform, which could increase our exposure to rising interest rates. if we enter into swap agreements, decreases in interest rates will increase our interest expense as compared to the underlying floating rate debt. this could result in our making payments to unwind these agreements, such as in connection with a prepayment of the floating rate debt. cap agreements do not protect us from increases up to the capped rate. increased market interest rates could reduce our stock prices. the annual dividend rate on our common stock as a percentage of its market price may influence the trading price of our stock. an increase in market interest rates may lead purchasers to demand a higher annual dividend rate, which could adversely affect the market price of our stock. a decrease in the market price of our common stock could reduce our ability to raise additional equity in the public markets. selling common stock at a decreased market price would have a dilutive impact on existing shareholders. risk factors related to federal income tax laws if we fail to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. we believe that we qualify for taxation as a reit for federal income tax purposes, and we plan to operate so that we can continue to meet the requirements for taxation as a reit. if we qualify as a reit, we generally will not be subject to federal income tax on our income that we distribute currently to our stockholders. many of the reit requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. the determination that we are a reit requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances, some of which may not be totally within our control and some of which involve questions of interpretation. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income must come from specific passive 8 table of contents index to financial statements sources, like rent, that are itemized in the reit tax laws. there can be no assurance that the irs or a court would agree with the positions we have taken in interpreting the reit requirements. we also are required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income (excluding capital gains). the fact that we hold many of our assets through co-investment partnerships and their subsidiaries further complicates the application of the reit requirements. even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our reit status. furthermore, congress and the internal revenue service might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings, that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified as a reit. also, unless the irs granted us relief under certain statutory provisions, we would remain disqualified as a reit for four years following the year we first failed to qualify. if we failed to qualify as a reit, we would have to pay significant income taxes. this would likely have a significant adverse affect on the value of our securities. in addition, we would no longer be required to pay any dividends to stockholders. even if we qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. for example, if we have net income from prohibited transactions, that income will be subject to a 100% tax. in general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. the determination as to whether a particular sale is a prohibited transaction depends on the facts and circumstances related to that sale. while we have undertaken a significant number of asset sales in recent years, we do not believe that those sales should be considered prohibited transactions, but there can be no assurance that the irs would not contend otherwise. in addition, any net taxable income earned directly by our taxable affiliates, including regency realty group, inc., is subject to federal and state corporate income tax. several provisions of the laws applicable to reits and their subsidiaries ensure that a taxable reit subsidiary will be subject to an appropriate level of federal income taxation. for example, a taxable reit subsidiary is limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to an affiliated reit. in addition, a reit has to pay a 100% penalty tax on some payments that it receives if the economic arrangements between the reit, the reit tenants and the taxable reit subsidiary are not comparable to similar arrangements between unrelated parties. finally, some state and local jurisdictions may tax some of our income even though as a reit we are not subject to federal income tax on that income. to the extent that we and our affiliates are required to pay federal, state and local taxes, we will have less cash available for distributions to our stockholders. a reit may not own securities in any one issuer if the value of those securities exceeds 5% of the value of the reit total assets or the securities owned by the reit represent more than 10% of the issuer outstanding voting securities or 10% of the value of the issuer outstanding securities. an exception to these tests allows a reit to own securities of a subsidiary that exceed the 5% value test and the 10% value tests if the subsidiary elects to be a taxable reit subsidiary. we are not able to own securities of taxable reit subsidiaries that represent in the aggregate more than 20% of the value of our total assets. we currently own more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of regency realty group, inc., which has elected to be a taxable reit subsidiary. risk factors related to our ownership limitations, the florida business corporation act and certain other matters restrictions on the ownership of our capital stock to preserve our reit status could delay or prevent a change in control. ownership of more than 7% by value of our outstanding capital stock by certain persons is restricted for the purpose of maintaining our qualification as a reit, with certain exceptions. this 7% limitation may discourage a change in control and may also (i) deter tender offers for our capital stock, which offers may be attractive to our stockholders, or (ii) limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their capital stock that might otherwise exist if an investor attempted to assemble a block in excess of 7% of our outstanding capital stock or to effect a change in control. the issuance of our capital stock could delay or prevent a change in control. our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 30,000,000 shares of preferred stock and 10,000,000 shares of special common stock and to establish the preferences and rights of any shares issued. the 9 table of contents index to financial statements issuance of preferred stock or special common stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control even if a change in control were in our stockholders interest. the provisions of the florida business corporation act regarding control share acquisitions and affiliated transactions could also deter potential acquisitions by preventing the acquiring party from voting the common stock it acquires or consummating a merger or other extraordinary corporate transaction without the approval of our disinterested stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to two components of interest-rate risk. our line has a variable interest rate that is based upon libor plus a spread of 55 basis points. libor rates charged on the line change monthly. based upon our current line balance, a 1% increase in libor would equate to an additional $2.1 million of interest costs per year. the spread on the line is dependent upon maintaining specific credit ratings. if our credit ratings were downgraded, the spread on the line would increase resulting in higher interest costs. we are also exposed to higher interest rates when we refinance our existing long-term fixed rate debt. the objective of our interest-rate risk management is to limit the impact of interest-rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. to achieve these objectives, we borrow primarily at fixed interest rates and may enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest-rate swaps, caps or treasury locks in order to mitigate our interest-rate risk on a related financial instrument. we do not enter into derivative or interest-rate transactions for speculative purposes. we have approximately $428.1 million of fixed rate debt maturing in 2010 and 2011, which includes $400.0 million of unsecured long-term debt. during 2006 we entered into four forward-starting interest rate swaps totaling $396.7 million with fixed rates of 5.399%, 5.415%, 5.399% and 5.415%. we designated these swaps as cash flow hedges to fix the future interest rates on the $400.0 million of financing expected to occur in 2010 and 2011. our interest-rate risk is monitored using a variety of techniques. the table below presents the principal cash flows (in thousands), weighted average interest rates of remaining debt, and the fair value of total debt (in thousands) as of december 31, 2007, by year of expected maturity to evaluate the expected cash flows and sensitivity to interest-rate changes. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 thereafter total fair value fixed rate debt $ 23,510 57,026 181,009 254,963 253,893 1,024,254 1,794,655 1,288,052 average interest rate for all fixed rate debt 6.42 % 6.37 % 6.14 % 5.80 % 5.57 % 5.54 % variable rate libor debt $ 162 5,659 208,000 213,821 213,821 average interest rate for all variable rate debt 5.41 % 5.41 % 5.41 % as the table incorporates only those exposures that exist as of december 31, 2007, it does not consider those exposures or positions that could arise after that date. moreover, because firm commitments are not presented in the table above, the information presented above has limited predictive value. as a result, our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to interest-rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise during the period, our hedging strategies at that time, and actual interest rates. 59 table of contents index to financial statementsrisk factors risk factors related to our industry and real estate investments our revenues and cash flow could be adversely affected by poor market conditions where properties are geographically concentrated. our performance depends on the economic conditions in markets in which our properties are concentrated. during the year ended december 31, 2008, our properties in california, florida and texas accounted for 58.9% of our consolidated net operating income. our revenues and cash available for distribution to stockholders could be adversely affected by this geographic concentration if market conditions, such as supply of retail space or demand for shopping centers, deteriorate in california, florida, and texas relative to other geographic areas. loss of revenues from major tenants could reduce distributions to stockholders. we derive significant revenues from anchor tenants such as kroger, publix and safeway that occupy more than one center. distributions to stockholders could be adversely affected by the loss of revenues in the event a major tenant: becomes bankrupt or insolvent; experiences a downturn in its business; materially defaults on its leases; does not renew its leases as they expire; or renews at lower rental rates. vacated anchor space, including space owned by the anchor, can reduce rental revenues generated by the shopping center because of the loss of the departed anchor tenant customer drawing power. most anchors have the right to vacate and prevent re-tenanting by paying rent for the balance of the lease term. if major tenants vacate a property, then other tenants may be entitled to terminate their leases at the property. downturns in the retailing industry likely will have a direct adverse impact on our revenues and cash flow. our properties consist primarily of grocery-anchored shopping centers. our performance therefore is generally linked to economic conditions in the market for retail space. the market for retail space has been or could be adversely affected by any of the following: weakness in the national, regional and local economies, which could adversely impact consumer spending and retail sales and in turn tenant demand for space and increased store closings; consequences of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attack against, the united states; the adverse financial condition of some large retailing companies; the ongoing consolidation in the retail sector; the excess amount of retail space in a number of markets; increasing consumer purchases through catalogs or the internet; reduction in the demand by tenants to occupy our shopping centers as a result of reduced consumer demand for certain retail formats such as video rental stores; the timing and costs associated with property improvements and rentals; changes in taxation and zoning laws; adverse government regulation. the growth of super-centers, such as those operated by wal-mart, and their adverse effect on major grocery chains; and the impact of increased energy costs on consumers and its consequential effect on the number of shopping visits to our centers; to the extent that any of these conditions occur, they are likely to impact market rents for retail space, occupancy in the operating portfolios, our ability to recycle capital, and our cash available for distribution to stockholders. 5 table of contents index to financial statements unsuccessful development activities or a slowdown in development activities could reduce distributions to stockholders. we actively pursue development activities as opportunities arise. development activities require various government and other approvals for entitlements which can significantly delay the development process. we may not recover our investment in development projects for which approvals are not received. we incur other risks associated with development activities, including: the ability to lease up developments to full occupancy on a timely basis; the risk that anchor tenants will not open and operate in accordance with their lease agreement; the risk that occupancy rates and rents of a completed project will not be sufficient to make the project profitable and available for contribution to our co-investment partnerships or sale to third parties; the risk that the current size and continued growth in our development pipeline will strain the organization capacity to complete the developments within the targeted timelines and at the expected returns on invested capital; the risk that we may abandon development opportunities and lose our investment in these developments; the risk that development costs of a project may exceed original estimates, possibly making the project unprofitable; delays in the development and construction process; and the lack of cash flow during the construction period. if developments are unsuccessful, funding provided from contributions to co-investment partnerships and sales to third parties may be materially reduced and our cash flow available for distribution to stockholders will be reduced. our earnings and cash flow available for distribution to stockholders also may be reduced if we experience a significant slowdown in our development activities. uninsured loss may adversely affect distributions to stockholders. we carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, extended coverage, rental loss, and environmental insurance for our properties with policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties. we believe that the insurance carried on our properties is adequate and in accordance with industry standards. there are, however, some types of losses, such as from hurricanes, terrorism, wars or earthquakes, which may be uninsurable, or the cost of insuring against such losses may not be economically justifiable. if an uninsured loss occurs, we could lose both the invested capital in and anticipated revenues from the property, but we would still be obligated to repay any recourse mortgage debt on the property. in that event, our distributions to stockholders could be reduced. we face competition from numerous sources. the ownership of shopping centers is highly fragmented, with less than 10% owned by real estate investment trusts. we face competition from other real estate investment trusts as well as from numerous small owners in the acquisition, ownership, and leasing of shopping centers. we compete to develop shopping centers with other real estate investment trusts engaged in development activities as well as with local, regional, and national real estate developers. we compete in the acquisition of properties through proprietary research that identifies opportunities in markets with high barriers to entry and higher-than-average population growth and household income. we seek to maximize rents per square foot by (i) establishing relationships with supermarket chains that are first or second in their markets or other category-leading anchors and (ii) leasing non-anchor space in multiple centers to national or regional tenants. we compete to develop properties by applying our proprietary research methods to identify development and leasing opportunities and by pre-leasing a significant portion of a center before beginning construction. there can be no assurance, however, that other real estate owners or developers will not utilize similar research methods and target the same markets and anchor tenants that we target. these entities may successfully 6 table of contents index to financial statements control these markets and tenants to our exclusion. if we cannot successfully compete in our targeted markets, our cash flow, and therefore distributions to stockholders, may be adversely affected. costs of environmental remediation could reduce our cash flow available for distribution to stockholders. under various federal, state and local laws, an owner or manager of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on the property. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. the cost of any required remediation could exceed the value of the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner. we are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations as they apply to our shopping centers pertaining to chemicals used by the dry cleaning industry, the existence of asbestos in older shopping centers, and underground petroleum storage tanks (ust s). the presence of, or the failure to properly remediate, hazardous or toxic substances may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease a contaminated property or to borrow using the property as collateral. any of these developments could reduce cash flow and distributions to stockholders. risk factors related to our co-investment partnerships and acquisition structure we do not have voting control over our joint venture investments, so we are unable to ensure that our objectives will be pursued. we have invested as a co-venturer in the acquisition or development of properties. these investments involve risks not present in a wholly-owned project. we do not have voting control over the ventures. the co-venturer might (1) have interests or goals that are inconsistent with our interests or goals or (2) otherwise impede our objectives. the co-venturer also might become insolvent or bankrupt. our co-investment partnerships account for a significant portion of our revenues and net income in the form of management fees and are an important part of our growth strategy. the termination of our co-investment partnerships could adversely affect distributions to stockholders. our management fee income has increased significantly as our participation in co-investment partnerships has increased. if co-investment partnerships owning a significant number of properties were dissolved for any reason, we would lose the asset and property management fees from these co-investment partnerships, which could adversely affect our cash available for distribution to stockholders. in addition, termination of the co-investment partnerships without replacing them with new co-investment partnerships could adversely affect our growth strategy. property sales to the co-investment partnerships provide us with an important source of funding for additional developments and acquisitions. without this source of capital, our ability to recycle capital, fund developments and acquisitions, and increase distributions to stockholders could be adversely affected. our co-investment partnerships have significant levels of debt, 67.5% of which will mature through 2012, and are subject to significant refinancing risks. we anticipate that as real estate values decline, the refinancing of maturing loans, including those maturing in our joint ventures, will require us and our joint venture partners to contribute our respective pro-rata shares of capital in order to reduce refinancing requirements to acceptable loan to value levels required for new financings. the long-term impact of the current economic crisis on our ability to access capital, including access by our joint venture partners, or to obtain future financing to fund maturing debt is unclear. our partnership structure may limit our flexibility to manage our assets. we invest in retail shopping centers through regency centers, l.p., the operating partnership in which we currently own 99% of the outstanding common partnership units. from time to time, we acquire properties through our operating partnership in exchange for limited partnership interests. this acquisition structure may permit limited partners who contribute properties to us to defer some, if not all, of the income tax liability that they would incur if they sold the property for cash. 7 table of contents index to financial statements properties contributed to our operating partnership may have unrealized gains attributable to the difference between the fair market value and adjusted tax basis in the properties prior to contribution. as a result, our sale of these properties could cause adverse tax consequences to the limited partners who contributed them. generally, our operating partnership has no obligation to consider the tax consequences of its actions to any limited partner. however, our operating partnership may acquire properties in the future subject to material restrictions on refinancing or resale designed to minimize the adverse tax consequences to the limited partners who contribute those properties. these restrictions could significantly reduce our flexibility to manage our assets by preventing us from reducing mortgage debt or selling a property when such a transaction might be in our best interest in order to reduce interest costs or dispose of an under-performing property. risk factors related to our capital recycling and capital structure lack of available credit could reduce capital available for new developments and other investments and could increase refinancing risks. the lack of available credit in the commercial real estate market is causing a decline in the sale of shopping centers and their values. this reduces the available capital for new developments or other new investments, which is a key part of our capital recycling strategy. the lack of liquidity in the capital markets has also resulted in a significant increase in the cost to refinance maturing loans and a significant increase in refinancing risks. we anticipate that as real estate values decline, refinancing maturing secured loans, including those maturing in our joint ventures, may require us and our joint venture partners to contribute our respective pro-rata shares of capital in order to reduce refinancing requirements to acceptable loan to value levels required for new financings. at this time, it is unclear whether and to what extent the actions taken by the u.s. government currently being implemented or contemplated, will mitigate the effects of the economic crisis within the united states. while we currently have no immediate need to access the credit markets, the impact of the current economic crisis on our ability to access capital, including access by our joint venture partners, or to obtain future financing to fund maturing debt is unclear. a reduction in the availability of capital, an increase in the cost of capital, and higher market capitalization rates could adversely impact regency ability to recycle capital and fund developments and acquisitions, and could dilute earnings. as part of our capital recycling program, we sell operating properties that no longer meet our investment standards. we also develop certain retail centers because of their attractive margins with the intent of selling them to co-investment partnerships or other third parties for a profit. these sale proceeds are used to fund the construction of new developments. an increase in market capitalization rates could cause a reduction in the value of centers identified for sale, which would have an adverse impact on our capital recycling program by reducing the amount of cash generated and profits realized. in order to meet the cash requirements of our development program, we may be required to sell more properties than initially planned, which would have a dilutive impact on our earnings. our debt financing may reduce distributions to stockholders. we do not expect to generate sufficient funds from operations to make balloon principal payments when due on our debt. if we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, we might be forced (i) to dispose of properties, which might result in losses, or (ii) to obtain financing at unfavorable terms. either could reduce the cash flow available for distributions to stockholders. in addition, if we cannot make required mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property securing the mortgage, causing the loss of cash flow from that property. furthermore, substantially all of our debt is cross-defaulted, which means that a default under one loan could trigger defaults under other loans. our organizational documents do not limit the amount of debt that may be incurred. the degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences, including the following: leverage could affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to repay indebtedness or for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development, or other general corporate purposes; leverage could make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and 8 table of contents index to financial statements as a result, our leverage could lead to reduced distributions to stockholders. covenants in our debt agreements may restrict our operating activities and adversely affect our financial condition. our revolving line of credit and our unsecured notes contain customary covenants, including compliance with financial ratios, such as ratios of total debt to gross asset value and fixed charge coverage ratios. our line of credit also restricts our ability to enter into a transaction that would result in a change of control. these covenants may limit our operational flexibility and our acquisition activities. moreover, if we breach any of these covenants, the resulting default could cause the acceleration of our indebtedness, even in the absence of a payment default. if we are not able to refinance our indebtedness after a default, or unable to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms, distributions to stockholders and our financial condition would be adversely affected. we depend on external sources of capital, which may not be available in the future. to qualify as a reit, we must, among other things, distribute to our stockholders each year at least 90% of our reit taxable income (excluding any net capital gains). because of these distribution requirements, we likely will not be able to fund all future capital needs, including capital for acquisitions or developments, with income from operations. we therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. in addition, our line of credit imposes covenants that limit our flexibility in obtaining other financing, such as a prohibition on negative pledge agreements. additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of stockholders interests, and additional debt financing may substantially increase our degree of leverage. risk factors related to interest rates and the market for our stock increased interest rates may reduce distributions to stockholders. we are obligated on floating rate debt, and if we do not eliminate our exposure to increases in interest rates through interest rate protection or cap agreements, these increases may reduce cash flow and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. although swap agreements enable us to convert floating rate debt to fixed rate debt and cap agreements enable us to cap our maximum interest rate, they expose us to the risk that the counterparties to these hedge agreements may not perform, which could increase our exposure to rising interest rates. if we enter into swap agreements, decreases in interest rates will increase our interest expense as compared to the underlying floating rate debt. this could result in our making payments to unwind these agreements, such as in connection with a prepayment of the floating rate debt. increased market interest rates could reduce our stock prices. the annual dividend rate on our common stock as a percentage of its market price may influence the trading price of our stock. an increase in market interest rates may lead purchasers to demand a higher annual dividend rate, which could adversely affect the market price of our stock. a decrease in the market price of our common stock could reduce our ability to raise additional equity in the public markets. selling common stock at a decreased market price would have a dilutive impact on existing shareholders. risk factors related to federal income tax laws if we fail to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. we believe that we qualify for taxation as a reit for federal income tax purposes, and we plan to operate so that we can continue to meet the requirements for taxation as a reit. if we qualify as a reit, we generally will not be subject to federal income tax on our income that we distribute currently to our stockholders. many of the reit requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. the determination that we are a reit requires an 9 table of contents index to financial statements analysis of various factual matters and circumstances, some of which may not be totally within our control and some of which involve questions of interpretation. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income must come from specific passive sources, like rent, that are itemized in the reit tax laws. there can be no assurance that the irs or a court would agree with the positions we have taken in interpreting the reit requirements. we also are required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income, excluding capital gains. the fact that we hold many of our assets through co-investment partnerships and their subsidiaries further complicates the application of the reit requirements. even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our reit status. furthermore, congress and the internal revenue service might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings, that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified as a reit. also, unless the irs granted us relief under certain statutory provisions, we would remain disqualified as a reit for four years following the year we first failed to qualify. if we failed to qualify as a reit, we would have to pay significant income taxes and this would likely have a significant adverse affect on the value of our securities. in addition, we would no longer be required to pay any dividends to stockholders. even if we qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. for example, if we have net income from prohibited transactions, that income will be subject to a 100% tax. in general, prohibited transactions include sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. the determination as to whether a particular sale is a prohibited transaction depends on the facts and circumstances related to that sale. while we have undertaken a significant number of asset sales in recent years, we do not believe that those sales should be considered prohibited transactions, but there can be no assurance that the irs would not contend otherwise. in addition, any net taxable income earned directly by our taxable affiliates, including regency realty group, inc., our taxable reit subsidiary, is subject to federal and state corporate income tax. several provisions of the laws applicable to reit and their subsidiaries ensure that a taxable reit subsidiary will be subject to an appropriate level of federal income taxation. for example, a taxable reit subsidiary is limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to an affiliated reit. in addition, a reit has to pay a 100% penalty tax on some payments that it receives if the economic arrangements between the reit, the reit tenants and the taxable reit subsidiary are not comparable to similar arrangements between unrelated parties. finally, some state and local jurisdictions may tax some of our income even though as a reit we are not subject to federal income tax on that income. to the extent that we and our affiliates are required to pay federal, state and local taxes, we will have less cash available for distributions to our stockholders. a reit may not own securities in any one issuer if the value of those securities exceeds 5% of the value of the reit total assets or the securities owned by the reit represent more than 10% of the issuer outstanding voting securities or 10% of the value of the issuer outstanding securities. an exception to these tests allows a reit to own securities of a subsidiary that exceed the 5% value test and the 10% value tests if the subsidiary elects to be a taxable reit subsidiary. we are not able to own securities of taxable reit subsidiaries that represent in the aggregate more than 25% of the value of our total assets. we currently own more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of regency realty group, inc., which has elected to be a taxable reit subsidiary. risk factors related to our ownership limitations, the florida business corporation act and certain other matters restrictions on the ownership of our capital stock to preserve our reit status could delay or prevent a change in control. ownership of more than 7% by value of our outstanding capital stock by certain persons is restricted for the purpose of maintaining our qualification as a reit, with certain exceptions. this 7% limitation may discourage a change in control and may also (i) deter tender offers for our capital stock, which offers may be attractive to our stockholders, or (ii) limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their capital stock that might otherwise exist if an investor attempted to assemble a block in excess of 7% of our outstanding capital stock or to effect a change in control. the issuance of our capital stock could delay or prevent a change in control. our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 30,000,000 shares of preferred stock and 10,000,000 shares of special common stock and to establish the preferences and rights of any shares 10 table of contents index to financial statements issued. the issuance of preferred stock or special common stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control even if a change in control were in our stockholders interest. the provisions of the florida business corporation act regarding control share acquisitions and affiliated transactions could also deter potential acquisitions by preventing the acquiring party from voting the common stock it acquires or consummating a merger or other extraordinary corporate transaction without the approval of our disinterested stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to two significant components of interest rate risk. our line has a variable interest rate that is based upon libor plus a spread of 40 basis points and the term loan within our term facility has a variable interest rate based upon libor plus a spread of 105 basis points. libor rates charged on our unsecured credit facilities change monthly. based upon the current balance of our unsecured credit facilities, a 1% increase in libor would equate to an additional $3.0 million of interest costs per year. the spread on the unsecured credit facilities is dependent upon maintaining specific credit ratings. if our credit ratings were downgraded, the spread on the unsecured credit facilities would increase, resulting in higher interest costs. we are also exposed to higher interest rates when we refinance our existing long-term fixed rate debt. the objective of our interest rate risk management is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. to achieve these objectives, we borrow primarily at fixed interest rates and may enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps, or treasury locks in order to mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument. we do not enter into derivative or interest rate transactions for speculative purposes. we have $428.3 million of fixed rate debt maturing in 2010 and 2011 that have a weighted average fixed interest rate of 8.07%, which includes $400.0 million of unsecured long-term debt. during 2006 we entered into four forward-starting interest rate swaps (the swaps ) totaling $396.7 million with fixed rates of 5.399%, 5.415%, 5.399%, and 5.415%. we designated these swaps as cash flow hedges to fix the future interest rates on $400.0 million of the financing expected to occur in 2010 and 2011. as a result of a decline in 10 year treasury interest rates since the inception of the swaps, the fair value of the swaps as of december 31, 2008 is reflected as a liability of $83.7 million in our accompanying consolidated balance sheet. it remains highly probable that the forecasted transactions will occur as projected at the inception of the swaps and therefore, the change in fair value of the swaps is reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. to the extent that future 10-year treasury rates (at the future settlement dates) are higher than current rates, this liability will decline. if a liability exists at the dates the swaps are settled, the liability will be amortized over the term of the respective debt issuances as additional interest expense in addition to the stated interest rates on the new issuances. in the case of $196.7 million of the swaps, we continue to expect to issue new secured or unsecured debt for a term of 7 to 12 years during the period between june 30, 2009 and june 30, 2010. in the case of $200.0 million of the swaps, we continue to expect to issue new debt for a term of 7 to 12 years during the period between march 30, 2010 and march 30, 2011. we continuously monitor the capital markets and evaluate our ability to issue new debt to repay maturing debt or fund our commitments. based upon the current capital markets, our current credit ratings, and the number of high quality, unencumbered properties that we own which could collateralize borrowings, we expect that we will successfully issue new secured or unsecured debt to fund our obligations. however, in the current environment, we expect interest rates on new issuances to be significantly higher than on historical issuances. an increase of 1.0% in the interest rate of new debt issues above that of maturing debt would result in additional annual interest expense of $4.3 million in addition to the impact of the annual amortization that would be incurred as a result of settling the swaps. our interest rate risk is monitored using a variety of techniques. the table below presents the principal cash flows (in thousands), weighted average interest rates of remaining debt, and the fair value of total debt (in thousands) as of december 31, 2008, by year of expected maturity to evaluate the expected cash flows and sensitivity to interest rate changes. although the average interest rate for variable rate debt is included in the table, those rates represent rates that existed at december 31, 2008 and are subject to change on a monthly basis. the table incorporates only those exposures that exist as of december 31, 2008 and does not consider those exposures or positions that could arise after that date. since firm commitments are not presented, the table has limited predictive value. as a result, our ultimate realized gain or loss with 59 table of contents index to financial statements respect to interest rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise during the period, our hedging strategies at that time, and actual interest rates. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter total fair value fixed rate debt $ 57,780 181,923 256,020 255,027 21,065 1,064,056 1,835,871 1,043,017 average interest rate for all fixed rate debt (a) 6.36 % 6.14 % 5.81 % 5.59 % 5.56 % 5.65 % variable rate libor debt $ 5,129 297,667 302,796 285,920 average interest rate for all variable rate debt (a) 1.34 % 1.34 % (a) average interest rates at the end of each year presented. the fair value of total debt in the table above is $1.3 billion versus the face value of $2.1 billion, which suggests that as new debt is issued in the future to repay maturing debt, the cost of new debt issuances will be higher than the current cost of existing debt. 60 table of contents index to financial statementsrisk factors risk factors related to our industry and real estate investments our revenues and cash flow could be adversely affected by poor market conditions where our properties are geographically concentrated. our performance depends on the economic conditions in markets in which our properties are concentrated. during the year ended december 31, 2009, our properties in california, florida, and texas accounted for 32.0%, 13.6%, and 15.4%, respectively, of our consolidated net operating income. our revenues and cash available for distribution to stock and unit holders could be adversely affected by this geographic concentration if market conditions, such as supply of retail space or demand for shopping centers, deteriorate in california, florida, and texas relative to other geographic areas. loss of revenues from major tenants could reduce distributions to stock and unit holders. we derive significant revenues from anchor tenants such as kroger, publix and safeway that occupy more than one center. kroger, publix, and safeway are our three largest tenants and accounted for 4.9%, 4.2%, and 3.7%, respectively, of our annualized base rent on a pro-rata basis for the year ended december 31, 2009. distributions to stock and unit holders could be adversely affected by the loss of revenues in the event a major tenant: becomes bankrupt or insolvent; experiences a downturn in its business; materially defaults on its leases; does not renew its leases as they expire; or renews at lower rental rates. vacated anchor space, including space owned by the anchor, can reduce rental revenues generated by the shopping center because of the loss of the departed anchor tenant customer drawing power. most anchors have the right to vacate and prevent re-tenanting by paying rent for the balance of the lease term. if major tenants vacate a property, then other tenants may be entitled to terminate their leases at the property. our net income depends on the success and continued presence of our tenants. our net income could be adversely affected if we fail to lease significant portions of our new developments or in the event of bankruptcy or insolvency of any anchors or of a significant number of our non-anchor tenants within a shopping center. the adverse impact on our net income may be greater than the loss of rent from the resulting unoccupied space because co-tenancy clauses may allow other tenants to modify or terminate their rent or lease obligations. co-tenancy clauses have several variants: they may allow a tenant to postpone a store opening if certain other tenants fail to open their store; they may allow a tenant the opportunity to close their store prior to lease expiration if another tenant closes their store prior to lease expiration; or more commonly, they may allow a tenant to pay reduced levels of rent until a certain number of tenants open their stores within the same shopping center. as the current recession continues to depress retail sales, we could experience reductions in rent and occupancy related to tenants exercising their co-tenancy clauses. downturns in the retail industry likely will have a direct adverse impact on our revenues and cash flow. our properties consist primarily of grocery-anchored shopping centers. our performance therefore is generally linked to economic conditions in the market for retail space. the market for retail space has been or could be adversely affected by any of the following: weakness in the national, regional and local economies, which could adversely impact consumer spending and retail sales and in turn tenant demand for space and increased store closings; consequences of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attack against, the united states; the adverse financial condition of some large retail companies; the ongoing consolidation in the retail sector; the excess amount of retail space in a number of markets; 4 table of contents increasing consumer purchases through catalogs; reduction in the demand by tenants to occupy our shopping centers as a result of reduced consumer demand for certain retail formats such as video rental stores; the timing and costs associated with property improvements and rentals; changes in taxation and zoning laws; adverse government regulation; a shift in retail shopping from brick and mortar stores to internet retailers; the growth of super-centers, such as those operated by wal-mart, and their adverse effect on major grocery chains; and the impact of increased energy costs on consumers and its consequential effect on the number of shopping visits to our centers; to the extent that any of these conditions occur, they are likely to impact market rents for retail space, occupancy in the operating portfolios, our ability to recycle capital, and our cash available for distributions to stock and unit holders. our real estate assets may be subject to impairment charges. on a periodic basis, we assess whether there are any indicators that the value of our real estate properties and other investments may be impaired. a property value is impaired only if our estimate of the aggregate future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) to be generated by the property are less than the carrying value of the property. if the aggregate future cash flows are less than the carrying value of property, we write down the property to its fair value. in our estimate of cash flows, we consider factors such as expected future operating income, trends and prospects, the effects of demand, competition and other factors. we are required to make subjective assessments as to whether there are impairments in the value of our real estate properties and other investments. these assessments have a direct impact on our net income because recording an impairment charge results in an immediate negative adjustment to net income. there can be no assurance that we will not take additional charges in the future related to the impairment of our assets. any future impairment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the charge is taken. unsuccessful development activities or a slowdown in development activities could reduce distributions to stock and unit holders. we actively pursue development activities as opportunities arise. development activities require various government and other approvals for entitlements which can significantly delay the development process. we may not recover our investment in development projects for which approvals are not received. we incur other risks associated with development activities, including: the ability to lease up developments to full occupancy on a timely basis; the risk that anchor tenants will not open and operate in accordance with their lease agreement; the risk that occupancy rates and rents of a completed project will not be sufficient to make the project profitable and available for contribution to our co-investment partnerships or sale to third parties; the risk that the current size in our development pipeline will strain the organization capacity to complete the developments within the targeted timelines and at the expected returns on invested capital; the risk that we may abandon development opportunities and lose our investment in these developments; the risk that development costs of a project may exceed original estimates, possibly making the project unprofitable; delays in the development and construction process; and the lack of cash flow during the construction period. if developments are unsuccessful, funding provided from sales to co-investment partnerships and third parties may be materially reduced and our cash flow available for distribution to stock and unit holders will be reduced. our earnings and cash flow available for distribution to stock and unit holders also may be reduced if we experience a significant slowdown in our development activities. 5 table of contents we may experience difficulty or delay in renewing leases or re-leasing space. we derive most of our revenue directly or indirectly from rent received from our tenants. we are subject to the risks that, upon expiration or termination of leases, whether by their terms, as a result of a tenant bankruptcy or otherwise, leases for space in our properties may not be renewed, space may not be re-leased, or the terms of renewal or re-lease, including the cost of required renovations or concessions to tenants, may be less favorable than current lease terms. as a result, our results of operations and our net income could be reduced. many real estate costs are fixed, even if income from our properties decreases. our financial results depend primarily on leasing space in our properties to tenants on terms favorable to us. costs associated with real estate investment, such as real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs, generally are not reduced even when a property is not fully occupied, rental rates decrease, or other circumstances cause a reduction in income from the property. as a result, cash flow from the operations of our properties may be reduced if a tenant does not pay its rent or we are unable to rent our properties on favorable terms. under those circumstances, we might not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and may incur substantial legal costs. additionally, new properties that we may acquire or develop may not produce any significant revenue immediately, and the cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service associated with such new properties until they are fully leased. we may be unable to sell properties when appropriate because real estate investments are illiquid. real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. we may not be able to alter our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions including being unable to sell a property at a return we believe is appropriate due to the current economic environment. our inability to respond quickly to adverse changes in the performance of our investments could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our obligations and make distributions to our stock and unit holders. we carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, extended coverage, rental loss, and environmental insurance for our properties with policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties. we believe that the insurance carried on our properties is adequate and in accordance with industry standards. there are, however, some types of losses, such as from hurricanes, terrorism, wars or earthquakes, which may be uninsurable, or the cost of insuring against such losses may not be economically justifiable. if an uninsured loss occurs, we could lose both the invested capital in and anticipated revenues from the property, but we would still be obligated to repay any recourse mortgage debt on the property. in that event, our distributions to stock and unit holders could be reduced. adverse global market and economic conditions may continue to adversely affect us and could cause us to recognize additional impairment charges or otherwise harm our performance. ongoing adverse market and economic conditions and market volatility will likely continue to make it difficult to value the properties and investments owned by us and our joint ventures. there may be significant uncertainty in the valuation, or in the stability of the value, of such properties and investments that could result in a substantial decrease in the value thereof. no assurance can be given that we will be able to recover the current carrying amount of all of our properties, investments and intangibles and those of our joint ventures in the future. our failure to do so would require us to recognize additional impairment charges for the period in which we reached that conclusion, which could materially and adversely affect us and the market price of our common stock. we are unable to predict whether, or to what extent or for how long, these adverse market and economic conditions will persist. the continuation and/or intensification of these conditions may impede our ability to generate sufficient operating cash flow to pay expenses, maintain properties, pay dividends, distributions, and refinance debt. we face competition from numerous sources. the ownership of shopping centers is highly fragmented, with less than 10% owned by reit s. we face competition from other reit as well as from numerous small owners in the acquisition, ownership, and leasing of shopping centers. we compete to develop shopping centers with other real estate investment trusts engaged in development activities as well as with local, regional, and national real estate developers. 6 table of contents we compete for the acquisition of properties through proprietary research that identifies opportunities in markets with high barriers to entry and higher-than-average population growth and household income. we seek to maximize rents per square foot by (i) establishing relationships with supermarket chains that are first or second in their markets or other category-leading anchors and (ii) leasing non-anchor space in multiple centers to national or regional tenants. we compete to develop properties by applying our proprietary research methods to identify development and leasing opportunities and by pre-leasing a significant portion of a center before beginning construction. there can be no assurance, however, that other real estate owners or developers will not utilize similar research methods and target the same markets and anchor tenants. these entities may successfully control these markets and tenants to our exclusion. if we cannot successfully compete in our targeted markets, our cash flow, and therefore distributions to stock and unit holders, may be adversely affected. costs of environmental remediation could reduce our cash flow available for distribution to stock and unit holders. under various federal, state and local laws, an owner or manager of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on the property. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. the cost of any required remediation could exceed the value of the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner. we are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations as they apply to our shopping centers pertaining to chemicals used by the dry cleaning industry, the existence of asbestos in older shopping centers, and underground petroleum storage tanks (ust s). the presence of, or the failure to properly remediate, hazardous or toxic substances may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease a contaminated property or to borrow using the property as collateral. any of these developments could reduce cash flow and distributions to stock and unit holders. risk factors related to our co-investment partnerships and acquisition structure we do not have voting control over our joint venture investments, so we are unable to ensure that our objectives will be pursued. we have invested as a co-venturer in the acquisition or development of properties. these investments involve risks not present in a wholly-owned project. we do not have voting control over the ventures. the other co-venturer might (i) have interests or goals that are inconsistent with our interests or goals or (ii) otherwise impede our objectives. the other co-venturer also might become insolvent or bankrupt. our co-investment partnerships are an important part of our growth strategy. the termination of our co-investment partnerships could adversely affect distributions to stock and unit holders. our management fee income has increased significantly as our participation in co-investment partnerships has increased. if co-investment partnerships owning a significant number of properties were dissolved for any reason, we would lose the asset and property management fees from these co-investment partnerships, which could adversely affect our cash available for distribution to stock and unit holders. in addition, termination of the co-investment partnerships without replacing them with new co-investment partnerships could adversely affect our growth strategy. property sales to the co-investment partnerships provide us with an important source of funding for additional developments and acquisitions. without this source of capital, our ability to recycle capital, fund developments and acquisitions, and increase distributions to stock and unit holders could be adversely affected. our co-investment partnerships have $2.5 billion of debt as of december 31, 2009, of which 54.8% will mature through 2012, which is subject to significant refinancing risks. we anticipate that as real estate values decline, the refinancing of maturing loans, including those maturing in our joint ventures, will require us and our joint venture partners to contribute our respective pro-rata shares of capital in order to reduce refinancing requirements to acceptable loan to value levels required for new financings. the long-term impact of the current economic crisis on our ability to access capital, including access by our joint venture partners, or to obtain future financing to fund maturing debt is unclear. 7 table of contents our partnership structure may limit our flexibility to manage our assets. we invest in retail shopping centers through the operating partnership in which the parent company currently owns 99% of the outstanding common partnership units. from time to time, we have acquired properties through the operating partnership in exchange for limited partnership interests. this acquisition structure may permit limited partners who contribute properties to us to defer some, if not all, of the income tax liability that they would incur if they sold the property for cash. properties contributed to the operating partnership may have unrealized gains attributable to the difference between the fair market value and adjusted tax basis in the properties prior to contribution. as a result, our sale of these properties could cause adverse tax consequences to the limited partners who contributed them. generally, the operating partnership has no obligation to consider the tax consequences of its actions to any limited partner. however, the operating partnership may acquire properties in the future subject to material restrictions on refinancing or resale designed to minimize the adverse tax consequences to the limited partners who contribute those properties. these restrictions could significantly reduce our flexibility to manage our assets by preventing us from reducing mortgage debt or selling a property when such a transaction might be in our best interest in order to reduce interest costs or dispose of an under-performing property. risk factors related to our capital recycling and capital structure lack of available credit could reduce capital available for new developments and other investments and could increase refinancing risks. the lack of available credit in the commercial real estate market is causing a decline in the sale of shopping centers and their values. this reduces the available capital for new developments or other new investments, which is a key part of our capital recycling strategy. the lack of liquidity in the capital markets has also resulted in a significant increase in the cost to refinance maturing loans and a significant increase in refinancing risks. we anticipate that as real estate values decline, refinancing maturing secured loans, including those maturing in our joint ventures, may require us and our joint venture partners to contribute our respective pro-rata shares of capital in order to reduce refinancing requirements to acceptable loan to value levels required for new financings. whether the credit markets will hinder our ability to access capital, including access by our joint venture partners, or to obtain future financing to fund maturing debt is unclear. a reduction in the availability of capital, an increase in the cost of capital, and higher market capitalization rates could adversely impact our ability to recycle capital and fund developments and acquisitions, and could dilute earnings. as part of our capital recycling program, we sell operating properties that no longer meet our investment standards. we also develop certain retail centers because of their attractive margins with the intent of selling them to co-investment partnerships or other third parties for a profit. these sales proceeds are used to fund the construction of new developments. an increase in market capitalization rates could cause a reduction in the value of centers identified for sale, which would have an adverse impact on our capital recycling program by reducing the amount of cash generated and profits realized. in order to meet the cash requirements of our development program, we may be required to sell more properties than initially planned, which would have a negative impact on our earnings. our debt financing may reduce distributions to stock and unit holders. we do not expect to generate sufficient funds from operations to make balloon principal payments on our debt when due. if we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, we might be forced (i) to dispose of properties, which might result in losses, or (ii) to obtain financing at unfavorable terms. either could reduce the cash flow available for distributions to stock and unit holders. in addition, if we cannot make required mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property securing the mortgage, causing the loss of cash flow from that property. furthermore, substantially all of our debt is cross-defaulted, which means that a default under one loan could trigger defaults under other loans. our organizational documents do not limit the amount of debt that may be incurred. the degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences, including the following: 8 table of contents leverage could affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to repay indebtedness or for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development, or other general corporate purposes; leverage could make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and as a result, our leverage could lead to reduced distributions to stock and unit holders. covenants in our debt agreements may restrict our operating activities and adversely affect our financial condition. our revolving line of credit and our unsecured notes contain customary covenants, including compliance with financial ratios, such as ratios of total debt to gross asset value and coverage ratios. coverage ratio is defined as ebitda divided by the sum of the gross interest and scheduled mortgage principal paid to our lenders plus dividends paid to our preferred stockholders. our line of credit also restricts our ability to enter into a transaction that would result in a change of control. these covenants may limit our operational flexibility and our acquisition activities. moreover, if we breach any of the covenants in our debt agreements, including the covenants above, and did not cure the breach within any applicable cure period, our lenders could require us to repay the debt immediately, even in the absence of a payment default. many of our debt arrangements, including our unsecured notes, unsecured line of credit, and our revolving credit facility, are cross-defaulted, which means that the lenders under those debt arrangements can put us in default and require immediate repayment of their debt if we breach and fail to cure a default under certain of our other debt obligations. as a result, any default under our debt covenants could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, our results of operations, our ability to meet our obligations, and the market value of our stock. we depend on external sources of capital, which may not be available in the future. to qualify as a reit, the parent company must, among other things, distribute to its stockholders each year at least 90% of its reit taxable income (excluding any net capital gains). because of these distribution requirements, we likely will not be able to fund all future capital needs, including capital for acquisitions or developments, with income from operations. we therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. in addition, our line of credit imposes covenants that limit our flexibility in obtaining other financing, such as a prohibition on negative pledge agreements. additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of stockholders interests and additional debt financing may substantially increase our degree of leverage. settlement provisions contained in forward sale agreements subject us to certain risks. the company entered into forward sale agreements in december 2009 with each of j.p. morgan securities inc. and wells fargo securities, llc. the forward sale agreements relate to the forward sale by the company of a number of shares of common stock equal to the number of shares of common stock to be borrowed and sold by each forward seller. depending on the price of our common stock at the time of settlement and the relevant settlement method, we may receive proceeds from the sale of common stock upon settlement of the forward sale agreements, which settlement must occur within approximately 15 months after december 2009. we intend to use any proceeds that we receive upon settlement of the forward sale agreements to repay or refinance maturing 2010 debt which may include a portion of our pro-rata share of the existing mortgage debt of macquarie countrywide-regency ii, llc as the debt comes due beginning in 2010 and other general corporate purposes, which may include the payment of future maturing debt or the acquisition of additional properties. each forward purchaser has the right to accelerate its respective forward sale agreement and require us to physically settle its forward sale agreement on a date specified by such forward purchaser upon the occurrence of certain events. each forward purchaser decision to exercise its right to require us to settle its forward sale agreement will be made irrespective of our interests, including our need for capital. in such cases, we could be required to issue and deliver our common stock under the terms of the physical settlement provisions of the relevant forward sale agreement irrespective of our capital needs, which would result in dilution to our earnings per share and unit and return on equity. in addition, upon certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency, or reorganization relating to 9 table of contents us, the forward sale agreements will terminate without further liability of either party. following any such termination, we would not issue any shares and we would not receive any proceeds pursuant to the forward sale agreements. the forward sale agreements provide for settlement on a settlement date or dates to be specified at our discretion within approximately 15 months from december 7, 2009. each forward sale agreement will be physically settled, unless we elect to settle such forward sale agreement in cash. if we decide to physically settle a forward sale agreement, delivery of our shares on any physical settlement of such forward sale agreement will result in dilution to our earnings per share and unit and return on equity. if we elect cash settlement for all or a portion of the shares of our common stock included in a forward sale agreement, we would expect the relevant forward purchaser or one of its affiliates to repurchase a number of shares equal to the portion for which we elect cash settlement in order to cover its obligation to return the shares of our common stock it had borrowed in connection with sales of our common stock. if the market value of our common stock at the time of the repurchase is above the forward price, we would pay the relevant forward purchaser under such forward sale agreement an amount in cash equal to the difference. thus, we would be responsible for a potentially substantial cash payment. in addition, the purchase of our common stock by the forward purchasers or their respective affiliates, to unwind their hedge positions, could cause the price of our common stock to increase over time, thereby increasing the amount of cash we would owe to the forward purchasers upon a cash settlement of the forward sale agreements. risk factors related to interest rates and the market for our stock we may be forced to deleverage our business with our operating cash flows, which could result in the reduction of distributions to our stock and unit holders, a reduction in investments into our business or additional equity offerings that dilute our stock and unit holders interests. we depend on external financing, principally debt financing, to fund the growth of our business and to ensure that we can meet ongoing maturities of our outstanding debt. our access to financing depends on our credit rating, the willingness of creditors to lend to us and conditions in the capital markets. the disruption in the capital markets that began in 2008 has continued into 2009, limiting access to financing for many companies. without access to external financing, we would be required to pay outstanding debt with our operating cash flows and our operating cash flows may not be sufficient to pay our outstanding debt as it comes due. if we are required to deleverage our business with operating cash flows, we may be forced to reduce the amount of, or eliminate altogether, our distributions to stock and unit holders or refrain from making investments in our business. we and our joint ventures have a significant amount of debt maturing in 2010, 2011, and 2012. during this time period, we have $624.7 million maturing and our joint ventures have $1.3 billion maturing (our pro-rata share is $333.8 million). in addition to finding creditors willing to lend to us, we are dependent upon our joint venture partners to contribute their share of any amount needed to repay or refinance existing debt when lenders reduce the amount of debt our joint ventures are refinancing. increased interest rates may reduce distributions to stock and unit holders. we are obligated on floating rate debt, of which we had $5.6 million as of december 31, 2009. if we do not eliminate our exposure to increases in interest rates through interest rate protection or cap agreements, these increases may reduce cash flow and our ability to make distributions to stock and unit holders. although swap agreements enable us to convert floating rate debt to fixed rate debt and cap agreements enable us to cap our maximum interest rate, they expose us to the risk that the counterparties to these hedge agreements may not perform, which could increase our exposure to rising interest rates. if we enter into swap agreements, decreases in interest rates will increase our interest expense as compared to the underlying floating rate debt. this could result in our making payments to unwind these agreements, such as in connection with a prepayment of our floating rate debt. increased market interest rates could reduce the parent company stock price. the annual dividend rate on our common stock as a percentage of its market price may influence the trading price of our stock. an increase in market interest rates may lead purchasers to demand a higher annual dividend rate, which could adversely affect the market price of our stock. a decrease in the market price of our 10 table of contents common stock could reduce our ability to raise additional equity in the public markets. selling common stock at a decreased market price would have a dilutive impact on existing stockholders. the price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, many of which are out of our control, including: actual or anticipated variations in our operating results or dividends; changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates; publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry in general and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other reit s; the ability of our tenants to pay rent and meet their other obligations to us under current lease terms and our ability to re-lease space as leases expire; increases in market interest rates that drive purchasers of our shares to demand a higher dividend yield; changes in market valuations of similar companies; adverse market reaction to any additional debt we incur in the future; any future issuances of equity securities; additions or departures of key management personnel; strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; actions by institutional stockholders; speculation in the press or investment community; general market and economic conditions. these factors may cause the market price of our common stock to decline, regardless of our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. it is impossible to ensure that the market price of our common stock will not fall in the future. risk factors related to federal income tax laws if the parent company fails to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, it would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. we believe that we qualify for taxation as a reit for federal income tax purposes, and we plan to operate so that we can continue to meet the requirements for taxation as a reit. if we qualify as a reit, we generally will not be subject to federal income tax on our income that we distribute currently to our stockholders. many of the reit requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. the determination that we are a reit requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances, some of which may not be totally within our control and some of which involve questions of interpretation. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income must come from specific passive sources, like rent, that are itemized in the reit tax laws. there can be no assurance that the internal revenue service ( irs ) or a court would agree with the positions we have taken in interpreting the reit requirements. we are also required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income, excluding capital gains. the fact that we hold many of our assets through co-investment partnerships and their subsidiaries further complicates the application of the reit requirements. even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our reit status. furthermore, congress and the irs might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings, that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified as a reit. also, unless the irs granted us relief under certain statutory provisions, we would remain disqualified as a reit for four years following the year we first failed to qualify. if we failed to qualify as a reit, we would have to pay significant income taxes and this would likely have a significant adverse affect on the value of our securities. in addition, we would no longer be required to pay any dividends to stockholders. even if we qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. for example, if we have net income from prohibited transactions, that income will be subject to a 100% tax. in general, prohibited transactions include sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. the determination as to whether a 11 table of contents particular sale is a prohibited transaction depends on the facts and circumstances related to that sale. while we have undertaken a significant number of asset sales in recent years, we do not believe that those sales should be considered prohibited transactions, but there can be no assurance that the irs would not contend otherwise. in addition, any net taxable income earned directly by our taxable affiliates, including regency realty group, inc. ( rrg ), our taxable reit subsidiary, is subject to federal and state corporate income tax. several provisions of the laws applicable to reit and their subsidiaries ensure that a taxable reit subsidiary will be subject to an appropriate level of federal income taxation. for example, a taxable reit subsidiary is limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to an affiliated reit. in addition, a reit has to pay a 100% penalty tax on some payments that it receives if the economic arrangements between the reit, the reit tenants and the taxable reit subsidiary are not comparable to similar arrangements between unrelated parties. finally, some state and local jurisdictions may tax some of our income even though as a reit, we are not subject to federal income tax on that income. to the extent that we and our affiliates are required to pay federal, state and local taxes, we will have less cash available for dividends to our stockholders. a reit may not own securities in any one issuer if the value of those securities exceeds 5% of the value of the reit total assets or the securities owned by the reit represent more than 10% of the issuer outstanding voting securities or 10% of the value of the issuer outstanding securities. an exception to these tests allows a reit to own securities of a subsidiary that exceed the 5% value test and the 10% value tests if the subsidiary elects to be a taxable reit subsidiary. we are not able to own securities of taxable reit subsidiaries that represent in the aggregate more than 25% of the value of our total assets. we currently own more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of rrg. risk factors related to our ownership limitations and the florida business corporation act restrictions on the ownership of the parent company capital stock to preserve our reit status could delay or prevent a change in control. ownership of more than 7% by value of our outstanding capital stock by certain persons is restricted for the purpose of maintaining our qualification as a reit, with certain exceptions. this 7% limitation may discourage a change in control and may also (i) deter tender offers for our capital stock, which offers may be attractive to our stockholders, or (ii) limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their capital stock that might otherwise exist if an investor attempted to assemble a block in excess of 7% of our outstanding capital stock or to effect a change in control. the issuance of the parent company capital stock could delay or prevent a change in control. our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 30,000,000 shares of preferred stock and 10,000,000 shares of special common stock and to establish the preferences and rights of any shares issued. the issuance of preferred stock or special common stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control even if a change in control were in our stockholders interest. the provisions of the florida business corporation act regarding control share acquisitions and affiliated transactions could also deter potential acquisitions by preventing the acquiring party from voting the common stock it acquires or consummating a merger or other extraordinary corporate transaction without the approval of our disinterested stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to two significant components of interest rate risk. our line commitment has a variable interest rate that is based upon libor plus a spread of 55 basis points and our revolving credit facility has a variable interest rate based upon libor plus a spread of 100 basis points. libor rates charged on our unsecured credit facilities change monthly. the spread on the unsecured credit facilities is dependent upon maintaining specific credit ratings. if our credit ratings are downgraded, the spread on the unsecured credit facilities would increase, resulting in higher interest costs. we are also exposed to higher interest rates when we refinance our existing long-term fixed rate debt. the objective of our interest rate risk management is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. to achieve these objectives, we borrow primarily at fixed interest rates and may enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps, or treasury locks in order to mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument. we do not enter into derivative or interest rate transactions for speculative purposes. we have $375.2 million of fixed rate debt maturing in 2010 and 2011 that has a weighted average fixed interest rate of 7.95%, which includes $334.0 million of unsecured long-term debt. during 2006 we entered into four forward-starting interest rate swaps (the swaps ) totaling $396.7 million with fixed rates of 5.399%, 5.415%, 5.399%, and 5.415%. we designated these swaps as cash flow hedges to lock in the underlying treasury rates on $334.0 million of the financing expected to occur in 2010 and 2011. as a result of a decline in 10 year treasury interest rates since the inception of the swaps, the fair value of the swaps as of december 31, 2009 is reflected as a liability of $28.4 million in accompanying consolidated balance sheet. it remains highly probable that the forecasted transactions will occur as projected at the inception of the swaps and therefore, the change in fair value of the swaps is reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. if we were to no longer expect to issue debt as originally forecasted, we would be required to immediately expense the change in fair value of the swaps to net income including all future changes until settled. during the year ended december 31, 2009, we had $3.3 million of hedge ineffectiveness recognized in earnings attributable to our revised assumptions of future debt issues. to the extent that future 10-year treasury rates (at the future settlement dates) are higher than current rates, this liability will decline. if a liability exists at the dates the swaps are settled, the liability will be amortized over the term of the respective debt issuances as additional interest expense in addition to the stated interest rates on the new debt. on april 16, 2009, we paid $20.0 million to settle and partially settle $106.0 million of our $396.7 million of interest rate swaps in place to hedge forecasted debt. on july 1, 2009, we closed on mortgage loans of $106.0 million secured by eight properties with an interest rate of 7.75% and a 10-year term. for $90.7 million of the remaining swaps, we continue to expect to issue new secured or unsecured debt for a term of 7 to 12 years prior to july 1, 2010. for $200.0 million of the remaining swaps, we continue to expect to issue new debt for a term of 7 to 12 years during the period between march 31, 2010 and march 31, 2011. we continuously monitor the capital markets and evaluate our ability to issue new debt to repay maturing debt or fund our commitments. based upon the current capital markets, our current credit ratings, and the number of high quality, unencumbered properties that we own which could collateralize borrowings, we expect that we will be able to successfully issue new secured or unsecured debt to fund our obligations. an increase of 1.0% in the interest rate of new debt issued, above that of maturing debt, would result in additional annual interest expense of $3.3 million subject to the impact of the annual amortization that would be incurred as a result of settling the swaps. our interest rate risk is monitored using a variety of techniques. the table below presents the principal cash flows (in thousands), weighted average interest rates of remaining debt, and the fair value of total debt (in thousands) as of december 31, 2009, by year of expected maturity to evaluate the expected cash flows and sensitivity to interest rate changes. although the average interest rate for variable rate debt is included in the table, those rates represent rates that existed at december 31, 2009 and are subject to change on a monthly basis. 63 table of contents the table incorporates only those exposures that exist as of december 31, 2009 and does not consider exposures or positions that could arise after that date. since firm commitments are not presented, the table has limited predictive value. as a result, our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to interest rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise during the period, our hedging strategies at that time, and actual interest rates. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 thereafter total fair value fixed rate debt $ 173,766 209,395 254,901 21,123 166,296 1,058,133 1,883,614 1,433,836 average interest rate forall fixed rate debt (a) 6.19 % 5.96 % 5.80 % 5.78 % 5.90 % 6.26 % variable rate libor debt $ 204 1,196 204 204 3,788 5,596 4,573 average interest rate forall variable rate debt (a) 5.33 % 5.80 % 5.80 % 5.80 % (a) average interest rates at the end of each year presented. the fair value of total debt in the table above is $1.4 billion versus the face value of $1.9 billion, which suggests that as new debt is issued in the future to repay maturing debt, the cost of new debt issuances will be higher than the current cost of existing debt. 64 table of contentsrisk factors risk factors related to our industry and real estate investments our revenues and cash flow could be adversely affected by poor market conditions where our properties are geographically concentrated. the economic conditions in markets in which our properties are concentrated greatly influence our financial performance. during the year ended december 31, 2010, our properties in california, florida, and texas accounted for 32.6%, 14.3%, and 13.4%, respectively, of our consolidated net operating income. our revenues and cash available for distribution to stock and unit holders could be adversely affected by this geographic concentration if market conditions, such as supply of retail space or demand for shopping centers, deteriorate in california, florida, and texas relative to other geographic areas. loss of revenues from major tenants could reduce distributions to stock and unit holders. we derive significant revenues from anchor tenants such as kroger, publix and safeway which are our three largest anchor tenants and accounted for 4.4%, 4.4%, and 3.8%, respectively, of our annualized base rent on a pro-rata basis for the year ended december 31, 2010. distributions to stock and unit holders could be adversely affected by the loss of revenues in the event a major tenant: becomes bankrupt or insolvent; experiences a downturn in its business; materially defaults on its leases; does not renew its leases as they expire; or renews at lower rental rates. vacated anchor space, including space owned by the anchor, can reduce rental revenues generated by the shopping center because of the loss of the departed anchor tenant customer drawing power. most anchors have the right to vacate and prevent re-tenanting by paying rent for the balance of the lease term. if major tenants vacate a property, then other tenants may be entitled to terminate their leases at the property. our net income depends on the success and continued presence of our tenants. our net income could be adversely affected if we fail to lease significant portions of our new developments or in the event of bankruptcy or insolvency of any anchors or of a significant number of our non-anchor tenants within a shopping center. the adverse impact on our net income may be greater than the loss of rent from the resulting unoccupied space because co-tenancy clauses may allow other tenants to modify or terminate their rent or lease obligations. co-tenancy clauses have several variants: they may allow a tenant to postpone a store opening if certain other tenants fail to open their stores; they may allow a tenant the opportunity to close its store prior to lease expiration if another tenant closes its store prior to lease expiration; or more commonly, they may allow a tenant to pay reduced levels of rent until a certain number of tenants open their stores within the same shopping center. 4 table of contents index to financial statements we may be unable to collect balances due from tenants in bankruptcy. at any point in time, we generally have one or more tenants in bankruptcy. a tenant that files for bankruptcy protection may not continue to pay us rent. a bankruptcy filing by or relating to one of our tenants or a lease guarantor would bar all efforts by us to collect pre-bankruptcy debts from the tenant or the lease guarantor, or its property, unless the bankruptcy court permits us to do so. a tenant or lease guarantor bankruptcy could delay our efforts to collect past due balances under the relevant leases and could ultimately preclude collection of these sums. if a lease is rejected by a tenant in bankruptcy, we would have only a general unsecured claim for damages. as a result, it is likely that we would recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims it holds, if at all. downturns in the retail industry likely will have a direct adverse impact on our revenues and cash flow. our properties consist primarily of grocery-anchored shopping centers. our performance therefore is generally linked to economic conditions in the market for retail space. the market for retail space has been or could be adversely affected by any of the following: weakness in the national, regional and local economies, which could adversely impact consumer spending and retail sales and in turn tenant demand for space and increased store closings; consequences of any armed conflict involving, or terrorist attack against, the united states; adverse financial conditions for large retail companies; the ongoing consolidation in the retail sector; the excess amount of retail space in a number of markets; reduction in the demand by tenants to occupy our shopping centers as a result of reduced consumer demand for certain retail formats such as video rental stores; the timing and costs associated with property improvements and rentals; changes in taxation and zoning laws; adverse government regulation; a shift in retail shopping from brick and mortar stores to internet retailers and catalogs; the growth of super-centers, such as those operated by wal-mart, and their adverse effect on major grocery chains; and the impact of increased energy costs on consumers and its consequential effect on the number of shopping visits to our centers. to the extent that any of these conditions occur, they are likely to impact market rents for retail space, occupancy in the operating portfolios, our ability to recycle capital, and our cash available for distributions to stock and unit holders. our real estate assets may be subject to impairment charges. our long-lived assets, primarily real estate held for investment, are carried at cost unless circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. we review long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate such an evaluation is warranted. in addition, we perform an annual review, generally during the fourth quarter, to re-evaluate market-based capitalization rates and estimated holding periods. if we determine that the carrying amount of a property is not recoverable, we write down the asset to fair value. if as a result of a change in our strategy for a specific property which we own directly or through our co-investment partnerships, a property previously classified as held and used is changed to held for sale, or if its estimated holding period changes, such change could cause us to determine that the 5 table of contents index to financial statements property is impaired and a provision for impairment in relation to that property would be recorded by us either directly or through a reduction of our equity in income of real estate partnerships. a property value is impaired only if our estimate of the aggregate future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges) to be generated by the property are less than the carrying value of the property. if the aggregate future cash flows are less than the carrying value of property, we write down the property to its fair value. in our estimate of cash flows, we consider factors such as expected future operating income, trends and prospects, the effects of demand, competition and other factors. these subjective assessments have a direct impact on our net income because recording an impairment charge results in an immediate negative adjustment to net income. there can be no assurance that we will not take additional charges in the future related to the impairment of our assets. any future impairment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the charge is taken. adverse global market and economic conditions may adversely affect us and could cause us to recognize additional impairment charges or otherwise harm our performance. we are unable to predict the timing, severity, and length of adverse market and economic conditions. the return of adverse market and economic conditions may impede our ability to generate sufficient operating cash flow to pay expenses, maintain properties, pay distributions to our stock and unit holders, and refinance debt. during these adverse periods, there may be significant uncertainty in the valuation our properties and investments that could result in a substantial decrease in the value thereof. no assurance can be given that we would be able to recover the current carrying amount of all of our properties and investments in the future. our failure to do so would require us to recognize additional impairment charges for the period in which we reached that conclusion, which could materially and adversely affect us and the market price of our common stock. unsuccessful development activities or a slowdown in development activities will have a direct impact on our revenues and our revenue growth. we actively pursue development activities as opportunities arise. development activities require various government and other approvals for entitlements which can significantly delay the development process. we may not recover our investment in development projects for which approvals are not received. we incur other risks associated with development activities, including: the ability to lease up developments to full occupancy on a timely basis; the risk that anchor tenants will not open and operate in accordance with their lease agreement; the risk that occupancy rates and rents of a completed project will not be sufficient to make the project profitable and available for contribution to our co-investment partnerships or sale to third parties; the risk that the current size in our development pipeline will strain the organization capacity to complete the developments within the targeted timelines and at the expected returns on invested capital; the risk that we may abandon development opportunities and lose our investment in these developments; the risk that development costs of a project may exceed original estimates, possibly making the project unprofitable; delays in the development and construction process; the lack of cash flow during the construction period; and the lack of development activity could reduce the capitalization of direct costs incurred for the purpose of development resulting in higher general and administrative costs. if our developments are unsuccessful or we experience a slowdown in development activities, our revenue growth may be adversely impacted. 6 table of contents index to financial statements we may experience difficulty or delay in renewing leases or re-leasing space. we derive most of our revenue directly or indirectly from rent received from our tenants. we are subject to the risks that, upon expiration or termination of leases, whether by their terms, as a result of a tenant bankruptcy or otherwise, leases for space in our properties may not be renewed, space may not be re-leased, or the terms of renewal or re-lease, including the cost of required renovations or concessions to tenants, may be less favorable than current lease terms. as a result, our results of operations and our net income could be reduced. many real estate costs are fixed, even if income from our properties decreases. our financial results depend primarily on leasing space in our properties to tenants on terms favorable to us. costs associated with real estate investment, such as real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs, generally are not reduced even when a property is not fully occupied, rental rates decrease, or other circumstances cause a reduction in income from the property. as a result, cash flow from the operations of our properties may be reduced if a tenant does not pay its rent or we are unable to lease our properties on favorable terms. under those circumstances, we might not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and may incur substantial legal costs. additionally, new properties that we may acquire or develop may not produce any significant revenue immediately, and the cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service associated with such new properties until they are fully leased. we may be unable to sell properties when appropriate because real estate investments are illiquid. real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. we may not be able to alter our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions including being unable to sell a property at a return we believe is appropriate due to the current economic environment. our inability to respond quickly to adverse changes in the performance of our investments could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our obligations and make distributions to our stock and unit holders. changes in accounting standards may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. the sec may decide in 2011 that issuers in the united states should be required to prepare financial statements in accordance with international financial reporting standards ( ifrs ) instead of u.s. generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ). ifrs is a comprehensive set of accounting standards promulgated by the international accounting standards board ( iasb ), which are rapidly gaining worldwide acceptance. if the sec decides to require ifrs, u.s. issuers may report under the new standards beginning as early as 2015. changes in u.s. gaap and changes in current interpretations are beyond our control, can be hard to predict and could materially impact how we report our financial results and condition. in certain cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised rule retroactively or apply existing rules differently which may adversely impact our results of operations or result in our recasting prior period financial statements for material amounts. additionally, significant changes to u.s. gaap may require costly technology changes, additional training and personnel, and other expenses that will negatively impact our results of operations. the adoption of new lease accounting rules may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) has proposed new accounting rules which could result in significant changes in the way leases are reported in our financial statements under gaap. the proposal, if adopted, could have a significant effect on our balance sheet. fasb may issue final rules on this topic in 2011. at this time, we are unable to determine what effect, if any, the adoption of this proposal will have on our financial condition, our results of operations and our financial ratios required by our debt covenants. 7 table of contents index to financial statements an uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the insurance policies on our properties could subject us to loss of capital or revenue on those properties. we carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, extended coverage, rental loss, and environmental insurance for our properties with policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties. we believe that the insurance carried on our properties is adequate and in accordance with industry standards. there are, however, some types of losses, such as from hurricanes, terrorism, wars or earthquakes, which may be uninsurable, or the cost of insuring against such losses may not be economically justifiable. in addition, tenants generally are required to indemnify and hold us harmless from liabilities resulting from injury to persons or damage to personal or real property, on or off the premises, due to activities conducted by tenants or their agents on the properties (including without limitation any environmental contamination), and at the tenant expense, to obtain and keep in full force during the term of the lease, liability and property damage insurance policies. however, our tenants may not properly maintain their insurance policies or have the ability to pay the deductibles associated with such policies. should a loss occur that is uninsured or in an amount exceeding the combined aggregate limits for the policies noted above, or in the event of a loss that is subject to a substantial deductible under an insurance policy, we could lose all or part of our capital invested in, and anticipated revenue from, one or more of the properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, as well as our ability to make distributions to stock and unit holders. loss of our key personnel could adversely affect the value of our performance and our parent company stock price. we depend on the efforts of our key executive personnel. although we believe qualified replacements could be found for our key executives, the loss of their services could adversely affect performance and our parent company stock price. we face competition from numerous sources. the ownership of shopping centers is highly fragmented, with less than 10% owned by reit s. we face competition from other reit as well as from numerous small owners in the acquisition, ownership, and leasing of shopping centers. we compete to develop shopping centers with other real estate investment trusts engaged in development activities as well as with local, regional, and national real estate developers. we compete for the acquisition of properties through proprietary research that identifies opportunities in markets with high barriers to entry and higher-than-average population growth and household income. we seek to maximize rents per square foot by (i) establishing relationships with supermarket chains that are first or second in their markets or other category-leading anchors and (ii) leasing non-anchor space in multiple centers to national or regional tenants. we compete to develop properties by applying our proprietary research methods to identify development and leasing opportunities and by pre-leasing a significant portion of a center before beginning construction. there can be no assurance, however, that other real estate owners or developers will not utilize similar research methods and target the same markets and anchor tenants. these entities may successfully control these markets and tenants to our exclusion. if we cannot successfully compete in our targeted markets, our cash flow, and therefore distributions to stock and unit holders, may be adversely affected. costs of environmental remediation could reduce our cash flow available for distribution to stock and unit holders. under various federal, state and local laws, an owner or manager of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances on the property. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances. the cost of any required remediation could exceed the value of the property and/or the aggregate assets of the owner or the responsible party. 8 table of contents index to financial statements we are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations as they apply to our shopping centers pertaining to chemicals used by the dry cleaning industry, the existence of asbestos in older shopping centers, and underground petroleum storage tanks (ust s). the presence of, or the failure to properly remediate, hazardous or toxic substances may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease a contaminated property or to borrow using the property as collateral. any of these developments could reduce cash flow and distributions to stock and unit holders. compliance with the americans with disabilities act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make unintended expenditures that adversely affect our cash flows. all of our properties are required to comply with the americans with disabilities act ( ada ). the ada has separate compliance requirements for public accommodations and commercial facilities, but generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. compliance with the ada requirements could require removal of access barriers, and noncompliance could result in imposition of fines by the u.s. government or an award of damages to private litigants, or both. while the tenants to whom we lease properties are obligated by law to comply with the ada provisions, and typically under tenant leases are obligated to cover costs associated with compliance, if required changes involve greater expenditures than anticipated, or if the changes must be made on a more accelerated basis than anticipated, the ability of these tenants to cover costs could be adversely affected. as a result, we could be required to expend funds to comply with the provisions of the ada, which could adversely affect the results of operations and financial condition and our ability to make distributions to our stock and unit holders. in addition, we are required to operate the properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental entities and become applicable to the properties. we may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with those requirements, and these expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet our financial obligations and make distributions to our stock and unit holders. risk factors related to our co-investment partnerships and acquisition structure we do not have voting control over our joint venture investments, so we are unable to ensure that our objectives will be pursued. we have invested as a co-venturer in the acquisition or development of properties. these investments involve risks not present in a wholly-owned project. we do not have voting control over the ventures. the other co-venturer might (i) have interests or goals that are inconsistent with our interests or goals or (ii) otherwise impede our objectives. the other co-venturer also might become insolvent or bankrupt. our co-investment partnerships are an important part of our growth strategy. the termination of our co-investment partnerships could adversely affect distributions to stock and unit holders. our management fee income has increased significantly as our participation in co-investment partnerships has increased. if co-investment partnerships owning a significant number of properties were dissolved for any reason, we would lose the asset and property management fees from these co-investment partnerships, which could adversely affect our cash available for distribution to stock and unit holders. in addition, termination of the co-investment partnerships without replacing them with new co-investment partnerships could adversely affect our growth strategy. property sales to the co-investment partnerships provide us with an important source of funding for additional developments and acquisitions. without this source of capital, our ability to recycle capital, fund developments and acquisitions, and increase distributions to stock and unit holders could be adversely affected. our co-investment partnerships have $2.1 billion of debt as of december 31, 2010, of which 35.0% will mature through 2012, which is subject to significant refinancing risks. we anticipate that as real estate values decline, the refinancing of maturing loans, including those maturing in our joint ventures, will require us and our 9 table of contents index to financial statements joint venture partners to contribute our respective pro-rata shares of capital in order to reduce refinancing requirements to acceptable loan to value levels required for new financings. the long-term impact of the current economic crisis on our ability to access capital, including access by our joint venture partners, or to obtain future financing to fund maturing debt is unclear. our partnership structure may limit our flexibility to manage our assets. we invest in retail shopping centers through the operating partnership in which the parent company currently owns approximately 99.8% of the outstanding common partnership units. from time to time, we have acquired properties through the operating partnership in exchange for limited partnership interests. this acquisition structure may permit limited partners who contribute properties to us to defer some, if not all, of the income tax liability that they would incur if they sold the property for cash. properties contributed to the operating partnership may have unrealized gains attributable to the difference between the fair market value and adjusted tax basis in the properties prior to contribution. as a result, our sale of these properties could cause adverse tax consequences to the limited partners who contributed them. generally, the operating partnership has no obligation to consider the tax consequences of its actions to any limited partner. however, the operating partnership may acquire properties in the future subject to material restrictions on refinancing or resale designed to minimize the adverse tax consequences to the limited partners who contribute those properties. these restrictions could significantly reduce our flexibility to manage our assets by preventing us from reducing mortgage debt or selling a property when such a transaction might be in our best interest in order to reduce interest costs or dispose of an under-performing property. risk factors related to our capital recycling and capital structure higher market capitalization rates for our properties could adversely impact our ability to recycle capital and fund developments and acquisitions, and could dilute earnings. as part of our capital recycling program, we sell operating properties that no longer meet our investment standards. we also develop certain retail centers because of their attractive margins with the intent of selling them to co-investment partnerships or other third parties for a profit. these sales proceeds are used to fund the construction of new developments. an increase in market capitalization rates could cause a reduction in the value of centers identified for sale, which would have an adverse impact on our capital recycling program by reducing the amount of cash generated and profits realized. in order to meet the cash requirements of our development program, we may be required to sell more properties than initially planned, which would have a negative impact on our earnings. our debt financing may reduce distributions to stock and unit holders. we do not expect to generate sufficient funds from operations to make balloon principal payments on our debt when due. if we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, we might be forced (i) to dispose of properties, which might result in losses, or (ii) to obtain financing at unfavorable terms. either could reduce the cash flow available for distributions to stock and unit holders. in addition, if we cannot make required mortgage payments, the mortgagee could foreclose on the property securing the mortgage, causing the loss of cash flow from that property. furthermore, substantially all of our debt is cross-defaulted, which means that a default under one loan could trigger defaults under other loans. our organizational documents do not limit the amount of debt that may be incurred. the degree to which we are leveraged could have important consequences, including the following: leverage could affect our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to repay indebtedness or for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, development, or other general corporate purposes; 10 table of contents index to financial statements leverage could make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and as a result, our leverage could lead to reduced distributions to stock and unit holders. covenants in our debt agreements may restrict our operating activities and adversely affect our financial condition. our unsecured notes, unsecured line of credit, and revolving credit facility contain customary covenants, including compliance with financial ratios, such as ratios of total debt to gross asset value and coverage ratios. coverage ratio is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( ebitda ) divided by the sum of the gross interest and scheduled mortgage principal paid to our lenders plus dividends paid to our preferred stockholders. our line of credit also restricts our ability to enter into a transaction that would result in a change of control. these covenants may limit our operational flexibility and our acquisition activities. moreover, if we breach any of the covenants in our debt agreements, including the covenants above, and did not cure the breach within any applicable cure period, our lenders could require us to repay the debt immediately, even in the absence of a payment default. many of our debt arrangements, including our unsecured notes, unsecured line of credit, and our revolving credit facility, are cross-defaulted, which means that the lenders under those debt arrangements can put us in default and require immediate repayment of their debt if we breach and fail to cure a default under certain of our other debt obligations. as a result, any default under our debt covenants could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, our results of operations, our ability to meet our obligations, and the market value of our stock. we depend on external sources of capital, which may not be available in the future. to qualify as a reit, the parent company must, among other things, distribute to its stockholders each year at least 90% of its reit taxable income (excluding any net capital gains). because of these distribution requirements, we likely will not be able to fund all future capital needs, including capital for acquisitions or developments, with income from operations. we therefore will have to rely on third-party sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. in addition, our line of credit imposes covenants that limit our flexibility in obtaining other financing, such as a prohibition on negative pledge agreements. additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of stockholders interests and additional debt financing may substantially increase our degree of leverage. settlement provisions contained in forward sale agreements subject us to certain risks. on december 9, 2009, we entered into two forward sale agreements (the agreements ) with j.p. morgan securities inc. and wells fargo securities, llc (collectively, the forward purchasers ). at the date of the agreements, the forward purchasers borrowed 8 million shares from unrelated parties and sold those shares into the open market. in march 2011, we expect to settle the agreements by issuing 8 million shares of regency centers corporation common stock to the forward purchasers, unless we elect to settle in cash, or we agree to extend the agreements with the forward purchasers. settling the agreements by issuing shares to the forward purchasers will result in dilution to our earnings per share and unit, and our return on equity. if we elect to settle all or a portion of the 8 million shares of common stock included in the agreements in cash, then we would expect the forward purchasers to repurchase our common stock in the open market to cover their obligation to return the shares of common stock that they borrowed in connection with the agreements. if the market value of our common stock at the time of their repurchase is above the forward price, we would pay the forward purchasers an amount in cash equal to the difference. thus, we would potentially be responsible for a substantial cash payment if our stock price were to rise substantially above the forward sale price on the date 11 table of contents index to financial statements we elect to settle in cash. in addition, the repurchase of our common stock by the forward purchasers to unwind any hedge positions could cause the price of our common stock to increase, thereby increasing the amount of cash we would owe to the forward purchasers upon a cash settlement of the agreements. the agreements provide the forward purchasers the right to require us to settle in common shares by a specific date upon the occurrence of certain events, irrespective of our interests, including our need for capital. in such a case, we would be required to issue and deliver our common stock under the terms of the physical settlement provisions of the agreements, which would result in dilution to our earnings per share and unit, and our return on equity. in addition, upon certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency, or reorganization relating to us, the agreements would terminate without further liability of either party, and we would not issue any shares, nor would we receive any proceeds pursuant to the agreements. risk factors related to interest rates and the market for our stock we may be forced to deleverage our business with our operating cash flows, which could result in the reduction of distributions to our stock and unit holders, a reduction in investments into our business or additional equity offerings that dilute our stock and unit holders interests. we depend on external financing, principally debt financing, to fund the growth of our business and to ensure that we can meet ongoing maturities of our outstanding debt. our access to financing depends on our credit rating, the willingness of creditors to lend to us and conditions in the capital markets. without access to external financing, we would be required to pay outstanding debt with our operating cash flows and our operating cash flows may not be sufficient to pay our outstanding debt as it comes due. if we are required to deleverage our business with operating cash flows, we may be forced to reduce the amount of, or eliminate altogether, our distributions to stock and unit holders or refrain from making investments in our business. we and our joint ventures have a significant amount of debt maturing in 2011 and 2012. during this time period, we have $402.0 million maturing and our joint ventures have $741.5 million maturing (our pro-rata share is $284.6 million). in addition to finding creditors willing to lend to us, we are dependent upon our joint venture partners to contribute their share of any amount needed to repay or refinance existing debt when lenders reduce the amount of debt our joint ventures are refinancing. increased market interest rates could reduce the parent company stock price. the annual dividend rate on our common stock as a percentage of its market price may influence the trading price of our stock. an increase in market interest rates may lead purchasers to demand a higher annual dividend rate, which could adversely affect the market price of our stock. a decrease in the market price of our common stock could reduce our ability to raise additional equity in the public markets. selling common stock at a decreased market price would have a dilutive impact on existing stockholders. the price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly. the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, many of which are out of our control, including: actual or anticipated variations in our operating results or dividends; changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates; publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry in general and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other reit s; the ability of our tenants to pay rent and meet their other obligations to us under current lease terms and our ability to re-lease space as leases expire; 12 table of contents index to financial statements increases in market interest rates that drive purchasers of our stock to demand a higher dividend yield; changes in market valuations of similar companies; adverse market reaction to any additional debt we incur in the future; any future issuances of equity securities; additions or departures of key management personnel; strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings; actions by institutional stockholders; speculation in the press or investment community; and general market and economic conditions. these factors may cause the market price of our common stock to decline, regardless of our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. it is impossible to ensure that the market price of our common stock will not fall in the future. risk factors related to federal income tax laws if the parent company fails to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, it would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. we believe that we qualify for taxation as a reit for federal income tax purposes, and we plan to operate so that we can continue to meet the requirements for taxation as a reit. if we qualify as a reit, we generally will not be subject to federal income tax on our income that we distribute currently to our stockholders. many of the reit requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. the determination that we are a reit requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances, some of which may not be totally within our control and some of which involve questions of interpretation. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income must come from specific passive sources, like rent, that are itemized in the reit tax laws. there can be no assurance that the internal revenue service ( irs ) or a court would agree with the positions we have taken in interpreting the reit requirements. we are also required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income, excluding capital gains. the fact that we hold many of our assets through co-investment partnerships and their subsidiaries further complicates the application of the reit requirements. even a technical or inadvertent mistake could jeopardize our reit status. furthermore, congress and the irs might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings, that make it more difficult, or impossible, for us to remain qualified as a reit. also, unless the irs granted us relief under certain statutory provisions, we would remain disqualified as a reit for four years following the year we first failed to qualify. if we failed to qualify as a reit, we would have to pay significant income taxes, reducing cash available to pay dividends, which would likely have a significant adverse affect on the value of our securities. in addition, we would no longer be required to pay any dividends to stockholders. even if we qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and property. for example, if we have net income from prohibited transactions, that income will be subject to a 100% tax. in general, prohibited transactions include sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. the determination as to whether a particular sale is a prohibited transaction depends on the facts and circumstances related to that sale. while we have undertaken a significant number of asset sales in recent years, we do not believe that those sales should be considered prohibited transactions, but there can be no assurance that the irs would not contend otherwise. 13 table of contents index to financial statements in addition, any net taxable income earned directly by our taxable affiliates, including regency realty group, inc. ( rrg ), our taxable reit subsidiary, is subject to federal and state corporate income tax. several provisions of the laws applicable to reit and their subsidiaries ensure that a taxable reit subsidiary will be subject to an appropriate level of federal income taxation. for example, a taxable reit subsidiary is limited in its ability to deduct interest payments made to an affiliated reit. in addition, a reit has to pay a 100% penalty tax on some payments that it receives if the economic arrangements between the reit, the reit tenants and the taxable reit subsidiary are not comparable to similar arrangements between unrelated parties. finally, some state and local jurisdictions may tax some of our income even though as a reit, we are not subject to federal income tax on that income. to the extent that we and our affiliates are required to pay federal, state and local taxes, we will have less cash available for dividends to our stockholders. a reit may not own securities in any one issuer if the value of those securities exceeds 5% of the value of the reit total assets or the securities owned by the reit represent more than 10% of the issuer outstanding voting securities or 10% of the value of the issuer outstanding securities. an exception to these tests allows a reit to own securities of a subsidiary that exceed the 5% value test and the 10% value tests if the subsidiary elects to be a taxable reit subsidiary. we are not able to own securities of taxable reit subsidiaries that represent in the aggregate more than 25% of the value of our total assets. we currently own more than 10% of the total value of the outstanding securities of rrg. risk factors related to our ownership limitations and the florida business corporation act restrictions on the ownership of the parent company capital stock to preserve our reit status could delay or prevent a change in control. ownership of more than 7% by value of our outstanding capital stock by certain persons is restricted for the purpose of maintaining our qualification as a reit, with certain exceptions. this 7% limitation may discourage a change in control and may also (i) deter tender offers for our capital stock, which offers may be attractive to our stockholders, or (ii) limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their capital stock that might otherwise exist if an investor attempted to assemble a block in excess of 7% of our outstanding capital stock or to affect a change in control. the issuance of the parent company capital stock could delay or prevent a change in control. our articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 30,000,000 shares of preferred stock and 10,000,000 shares of special common stock and to establish the preferences and rights of any shares issued. the issuance of preferred stock or special common stock could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control even if a change in control were in our stockholders interest. the provisions of the florida business corporation act regarding control share acquisitions and affiliated transactions could also deter potential acquisitions by preventing the acquiring party from voting the common stock it acquires or consummating a merger or other extraordinary corporate transaction without the approval of our disinterested stockholders. 14 table of contents index to financial statements quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk we are exposed to two significant components of interest rate risk. our line commitment has a variable interest rate that is based upon libor plus a spread of 55 basis points and our revolving credit facility has a variable interest rate based upon libor plus a spread of 100 basis points. libor rates charged on our unsecured credit facilities change monthly. the spread on the unsecured credit facilities is dependent upon maintaining specific credit ratings. if our credit ratings are downgraded, the spread on the unsecured credit facilities would increase, resulting in higher interest costs. we are also exposed to higher interest rates when we refinance our existing long-term fixed rate debt. the objective of our interest rate risk management is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows and to lower our overall borrowing costs. to achieve these objectives, we borrow primarily at fixed interest rates and may enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps, or treasury locks in order to mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument. we do not enter into derivative or interest rate transactions for speculative purposes. during 2006, we entered into four forward-starting interest rate swaps (the swaps ) totaling $396.7 million with fixed rates of 5.399%, 5.415%, 5.399%, and 5.415%. at inception, we designated these swaps as cash flow hedges to lock in the underlying treasury rates on $400.0 million of fixed rate financing that was expected to occur in 2010 and 2011. during 2009, we paid $20.0 million to partially settle $106.0 million of the $396.7 swaps in place to hedge the $106.0 million mortgage loan issued on july 1, 2009. on june 1, 2010, we paid $26.8 million to partially settle $150.0 million of the remaining $290.7 million swaps in place to hedge the $150.0 million ten-year senior unsecured notes issued on june 2, 2010. on september 30, 2010, we paid $36.7 million to settle the remaining $140.7 million of swaps to hedge the $250.0 million ten-year senior unsecured notes issued on october 7, 2010. for the year ended december 31, 2010, we recognized income of $1.4 million for changes in hedge ineffectiveness attributable to revised inputs used in valuation models to estimate effectiveness. we have $374.7 million of fixed rate debt maturing in 2011 and 2012 that has a weighted average fixed interest rate of 7.29%, which includes $374.1 million of unsecured long-term debt. we continuously monitor the capital markets and evaluate our ability to issue new debt to repay maturing debt or fund our commitments. based upon the current capital markets, our current credit ratings, and the number of high quality, unencumbered properties that we own which could collateralize borrowings, we expect that we will be able to successfully issue new secured or unsecured debt to fund these debt obligations. our interest rate risk is monitored using a variety of techniques. the table below presents the principal cash flows (in thousands), weighted average interest rates of remaining debt, and the fair value of total debt (in thousands) as of december 31, 2010, by year of expected maturity to evaluate the expected cash flows and sensitivity to interest rate changes. although the average interest rate for variable rate debt is included in the table, those rates represent rates that existed at december 31, 2010 and are subject to change on a monthly basis. 64 table of contents index to financial statements the table below incorporates only those exposures that exist as of december 31, 2010 and does not consider exposures or positions that could arise after that date. since firm commitments are not presented, the table has limited predictive value. as a result, our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to interest rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise during the period, our hedging strategies at that time, and actual interest rates. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 thereafter total value fixed rate debt $ 187,049 197,440 21,288 172,074 399,387 1,098,251 2,075,489 1,657,995 average interest rate for all fixed rate debt (1) 5.78 % 5.67 % 5.65 % 5.72 % 5.87 % 5.87 % variable rate libor debt $ 7,264 10,204 204 3,517 21,189 20,232 average interest rate for all variable rate debt (1) 2.25 % 5.80 % 5.80 % (1) average interest rates at the end of each year presented. the fair value of total debt in the table above is $1.7 billion versus the face value of $2.1 billion, which suggests that as new debt is issued in the future to repay maturing debt, the cost of new debt issuances will be higher than the current cost of existing debt. 65 table of contents index to financial statementsrisk factors below. the following discussion should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto of regency centers corporation and regency centers, l.p. appearing elsewhere herein. we do not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to such forward-looking statements to reflect events or uncertainties after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of uncertain events. part i item 1. business regency centers corporation is a fully integrated real estate company and self-administered and self-managed real estate investment trust that began its operations as a publicly-traded reit in 1993. regency centers l.p. is the entity through which regency centers corporation conducts substantially all of its operations and owns substantially all of its assets. our business consists of acquiring, developing, owning and operating income-producing retail real estate principally located in many of the top markets in the united states. we generate revenues by leasing space to retail tenants such as highly productive grocers, restaurants, service providers, and best-in-class retailers. following our merger with equity one inc. ( equity one ) in 2017, regency became an p 500 index member. as of december 31, 2019, we had full or partial ownership interests in 419 properties, primarily anchored by market leading grocery stores, encompassing 52.6 million square feet ( sf ) of gross leasable area ( gla ). our pro-rata share of this gla is 42.8 million square feet, including our share of the partially owned properties. our mission is to be the preeminent national owner, operator, and developer of shopping centers, creating places that provide a thriving environment for outstanding retailers and service providers to connect with the surrounding neighborhoods and communities. our goals are to: own and manage a portfolio of high-quality neighborhood and community shopping centers anchored by market leading grocers and located in affluent suburban and near urban trade areas in the country's most desirable metro areas. we expect that this combination will produce highly desirable and attractive centers with best-in-class retailers. these centers should command higher rental and occupancy rates resulting in excellent prospects to grow net operating income ( noi ) maintain an industry leading and disciplined development and redevelopment platform to deliver exceptional retail centers at higher returns as compared to acquisitions support our business activities with a conservative capital structure, including a strong balance sheet attain best-in-class environmental, social, and governance practices engage an exceptional and diverse team that is guided by our strong values and special culture, while fostering an environment of innovation and continuous improvement that will deploy industry-leading operating standards and increase earnings per share and dividends and generate total returns at or near the top of our shopping center peers. key strategies to achieve our goals are to: sustain same property noi growth that over the long-term consistently ranks at or near the top of our shopping center peers develop and redevelop high quality shopping centers at attractive returns on investment maintain a conservative balance sheet providing financial flexibility to cost effectively fund investment opportunities and debt maturities on a favorable basis, and to weather economic downturns 1 maintain the highest standards for corporate governance and act as good stewards of our communities and the environment and attract and motivate an exceptional team of employees who operate efficiently and are recognized as industry leaders. corporate responsibility our vision is to be the preeminent national owner, operator and developer of shopping centers, connecting outstanding retailers and service providers with their neighborhoods and communities while practicing best-in-class corporate responsibility. we have established four pillars for our corporate responsibility program that we believe support our vision and mission: our people our communities ethics and governance and environmental stewardship. our people are our greatest asset and we work to support our highly engaged team that drives our business and is critical to achieving our strategic objectives. we maintain a safe and pleasant workspace, promote employee well-being, and empower our employees by focusing on health and benefits, training and education, safety, and diversity. our team is also passionate about investing in and connecting with the communities in which we live and work. philanthropy and giving back are cornerstones of what we do and who we are. our local teams personally customize and cultivate our centers by bringing tenants and shoppers together and continually engage with the communities in which we operate. as stewards of our investors' capital, we are committed to best-in-class corporate governance practice. we place great emphasis on integrity and transparency, which extends to our reporting practices, long-term value creation for our stakeholders, and strong culture of business compliance. we believe sustainability is in the best interest of our tenants, investors, employees, and the communities in which we operate. we have five strategic priorities when it comes to identifying and implementing sustainable business practices and minimizing our environmental impact: green building, energy efficiency, greenhouse gas emissions reduction, water conservation, and waste minimization and management. we believe these commitments are not only the right thing to do to address material environmental topics such as air pollution, climate change, and resource scarcity, but also support us in achieving key strategic objectives in operations and development. we are committed to transparency with regard to our corporate responsibility and sustainability performance, risks and opportunities, and will continue to enhance disclosures using industry accepted reporting frameworks. more information about our corporate responsibility strategy, goals, performance, and formal disclosures are available on our website at www.regencycenters.com. the content of our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on form 10-k or in any other report or document we file with the sec, and any references to our website are intended to be inactive textual references only. competition we are among the largest owners of shopping centers in the nation based on revenues, number of properties, gla, and market capitalization. there are numerous companies and individuals engaged in the ownership, development, acquisition, and operation of shopping centers that compete with us in our targeted markets, including grocery store chains that also anchor some of our shopping centers. this results in competition for attracting tenants, as well as the acquisition of existing shopping centers and new development sites. we believe that our competitive advantages are driven by: our locations within our market areas the design and high quality of our shopping centers the strong demographics surrounding our shopping centers our relationships with our anchor tenants and our side-shop and out-parcel retailers our practice of maintaining and renovating our shopping centers and our ability to source and develop new shopping centers. 2 employees our corporate headquarters are located at one independent drive, suite 114, jacksonville, florida. we presently maintain 22 market offices nationwide, including our corporate headquarters, where we conduct management, leasing, construction, and investment activities. we have 450 employees throughout the united states and we believe that our relations with our employees are good. compliance with governmental regulations under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, we may be liable for the cost to remove certain hazardous substances at our shopping centers that generally arise from dry cleaners, gas stations, and historic land use practices. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of the hazardous substances. the presence of such substances, or the failure to properly address such substances, may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or borrow using the property as collateral. although we have a number of properties that could require or are currently undergoing varying levels of clean up, known environmental corrective actions are not currently expected to have a material financial impact on us due to our environmental insurance programs, various state-regulated programs that shift the responsibility and cost to the state, and existing accrued liabilities. executive officers our executive officers are appointed each year by our board of directors. each of our executive officers has been employed by us for more than five years and, as of december 31, 2019, included the following: name age title executive officer in position shown since martin e. stein, jr. 67 chairman and chief executive officer 1993 (1) lisa palmer 52 president 2016 (2) michael j. mas 44 executive vice president, chief financial officer 2019 (3) dan m. chandler, iii 52 executive vice president, chief investment officer 2019 (4) james d. thompson 64 executive vice president, chief operating officer 2019 (5) (1) mr. stein was appointed executive chairman of the board effective january 1, 2020. prior to this appointment, mr. stein served as chief executive officer since 1993 and chairman of the board since 1999. (2) ms. palmer was named chief executive officer effective january 1, 2020, in addition to her responsibilities as president, which position she has held since january 2016. prior to this appointment, ms. palmer served as chief financial officer since january 2013. prior to that, ms. palmer served as senior vice president of capital markets since 2003 and has been with the company since 1996. (3) mr. mas assumed the responsibilities of executive vice president and chief financial officer effective august 2019. prior to this appointment, mr. mas served as managing director, finance, since february 2017, and senior vice president, capital markets, since 2013. (4) mr. chandler assumed the role of chief investment officer, effective august 2019, and executive vice president of investments in 2016. mr. chandler previously served as managing director since 2006. prior to that, mr. chandler served in various investment officer positions since 1999. (5) mr. thompson assumed the role of chief operating officer, effective august 2019, and executive vice president of operations in 2016. mr. thompson previously served as our managing director - east since 1993. company website access and sec filings our website may be accessed at www.regencycenters.com . all of our filings with the securities and exchange commission ( sec ) can be accessed free of charge through our website promptly after filing however, in the event that the website is inaccessible, we will provide paper copies of our most recent annual report on form 10-k, the most recent quarterly report on form 10-q, current reports filed or furnished on form 8-k, and all related amendments, excluding exhibits, free of charge upon request. these filings are also accessible on the sec's website at www.sec.gov . the content of our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on form 10-k or in any other report or document we file with the sec, and any references to our website are intended to be inactive textual references only. 3 general information our registrar and stock transfer agent is broadridge corporate issuer solutions, inc. ( broadridge ), philadelphia, pa. we offer a dividend reinvestment plan ( drip ) that enables our shareholders to reinvest dividends automatically, as well as to make voluntary cash payments toward the purchase of additional shares. for more information, contact broadridge toll free at (855) 449-0975 or our shareholder relations department at (904) 598-7000. the company's common stock is listed on nasdaq and trades under the stock symbol reg . our independent registered public accounting firm is kpmg llp, jacksonville, florida. our legal counsel is foley lardner llp, jacksonville, florida. annual meeting of shareholders our 2020 annual meeting of shareholders will be held at the ponte vedra inn and club, 200 ponte vedra blvd., ponte vedra beach, florida, at 9:00 a.m. on wednesday, april 29, 2020. defined terms in addition to the required generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ) presentations, we use certain non-gaap performance measures as we believe these measures improve the understanding of our operational results. we continually evaluate the usefulness, relevance, limitations, and calculation of our reported non-gaap performance measures to determine how best to provide relevant information to the public, and thus such reported measures could change. the following terms, as defined, are commonly used by management and the investing public to understand and evaluate our operational results: development completion is a property in development that is deemed complete upon the earliest of: (i) 90% of total estimated net development costs have been incurred and percent leased equals or exceeds 95%, or (ii) the property features at least two years of anchor operations, or (iii) three years have passed since the start of construction. once deemed complete, the property is termed a retail operating property the following calendar year. fixed charge coverage ratio is defined as operating ebitda re divided by the sum of the gross interest and scheduled mortgage principal paid to our lenders. nareit ebitdare is a measure of reit performance, which the national association of real estate investment trusts ( nareit ) defines as net income, computed in accordance with gaap, excluding (i) interest expense, (ii) income tax expense, (iii) depreciation and amortization, (iv) gains on sales of real estate, (v) impairments of real estate, and (vi) adjustments to reflect the company's share of unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. we provide a reconciliation of net income to nareit ebitda re . nareit funds from operations ( nareit ffo ) is a commonly used measure of reit performance, which nareit defines as net income, computed in accordance with gaap, excluding gains on sales and impairments of real estate, net of tax, plus depreciation and amortization, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. we compute nareit ffo for all periods presented in accordance with nareit's definition in effect during that period. effective january 1, 2019, we prospectively adopted the nareit ffo white paper 2018 restatement ( 2018 ffo white paper ), and elected the option of excluding gains on sale and impairments of land, which are considered incidental to our main business. prior period amounts were not restated to conform to the current year presentation, and therefore are calculated as described above, and also include gains on sale and impairments of land. companies use different depreciable lives and methods, and real estate values historically fluctuate with market conditions. since nareit ffo excludes depreciation and amortization and gains on sales and impairments of real estate, it provides a performance measure that, when compared year over year, reflects the impact on operations from trends in occupancy rates, rental rates, operating costs, acquisition and development activities, and financing costs. this provides a perspective of our financial performance not immediately apparent from net income determined in accordance with gaap. thus, nareit ffo is a supplemental non-gaap financial measure of our operating performance, which does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with gaap and, therefore, should not be considered a substitute measure of cash flows from operations. we provide a reconciliation of net income attributable to common stockholders to nareit ffo. net operating income ( noi ) is the sum of base rent, percentage rent, recoveries from tenants, other lease income, and other property income, less operating and maintenance expenses, real estate taxes, ground rent, and uncollectible lease income / provision for doubtful accounts. noi excludes straight-line rental income and expense, above and below market 4 rent and ground rent amortization, tenant lease inducement amortization, and other fees. we also provide disclosure of noi excluding termination fees, which excludes both termination fee income and expenses. non-same property is any property, during either calendar year period being compared, that was acquired, sold, a property in development, a development completion, or a property under, or being positioned for, significant redevelopment that distorts comparability between periods. non-retail properties and corporate activities, including the captive insurance program, are part of non-same property. operating ebitdare begins with the nareit ebitda re and excludes certain non-cash components of earnings derived from above and below market rent amortization and straight-line rents. we provide a reconciliation of net income to nareit ebitda re to operating ebitda re. pro-rata information includes 100% of our consolidated properties plus our economic share (based on our ownership interest) in our unconsolidated real estate investment partnerships. we provide pro-rata financial information because we believe it assists investors and analysts in estimating our economic interest in our consolidated and unconsolidated partnerships, when read in conjunction with the company's reported results under gaap. we believe presenting our pro-rata share of assets, liabilities, operating results, and certain operating metrics, along with other non-gaap measures, makes comparisons of other reits' operating results to ours more meaningful. the pro-rata information provided is not, nor is it intended to be, presented in accordance with gaap. the pro-rata supplemental details of assets and liabilities and supplemental details of operations reflect our proportionate economic ownership of the assets, liabilities and operating results of the properties in our portfolio the pro-rata information is prepared on a basis consistent with the comparable consolidated amounts and is intended to more accurately reflect our proportionate economic interest in the assets, liabilities, and operating results of properties in our portfolio. we do not control the unconsolidated investment partnerships, and the pro-rata presentations of the assets and liabilities, and revenues and expenses do not represent our legal claim to such items. the partners are entitled to profit or loss allocations and distributions of cash flows according to the operating agreements, which generally provide for such allocations according to their invested capital. our share of invested capital establishes the ownership interests we use to prepare our pro-rata share. the presentation of pro-rata information has limitations which include, but are not limited to, the following: o the amounts shown on the individual line items were derived by applying our overall economic ownership interest percentage determined when applying the equity method of accounting or allocating noncontrolling interests, and do not necessarily represent our legal claim to the assets and liabilities, or the revenues and expenses and o other companies in our industry may calculate their pro-rata interest differently, limiting the comparability of pro-rata information. because of these limitations, the pro-rata financial information should not be considered independently or as a substitute for our financial statements as reported under gaap. we compensate for these limitations by relying primarily on our gaap financial statements, using the pro-rata information as a supplement. property in development includes properties in various stages of ground-up development. property in redevelopment includes retail operating properties under redevelopment or being positioned for redevelopment. unless otherwise indicated, a property in redevelopment is included in the same property pool. retail operating property is any retail property not termed a property in development. a retail property is any property where the majority of the income is generated from retail uses. same property is a retail operating property that was owned and operated for the entirety of both calendar year periods being compared. this term excludes properties in development, prior year development completions, and non-same properties. properties in redevelopment are included unless otherwise indicated. 5 item 1a. risk factors risk factors related to the retail industry economic and market conditions may adversely affect the retail industry and consequently reduce our revenues and cash flow, and increase our operating expenses. our properties are leased primarily to retail tenants from whom we derive most of our revenue in the form of base rent, expense recoveries and other income. therefore, our performance and operating results are directly linked to the economic and market conditions occurring in the retail industry. we are subject to the risks that, upon expiration, leases for space in our properties are not renewed by existing tenants, vacant space is not leased to new tenants, or tenants demand new lease terms, including costs for renovations or concessions. the market for leasing retail space in our properties may be adversely affected by any of the following: changes in national, regional and local economic conditions changes in population and migration patterns to/from the markets in which we operate deterioration in the competitiveness and creditworthiness of our retail tenants increased competition from the use of e-commerce by retailers and consumers as well as other concepts such as super-stores and warehouse clubs tenant bankruptcies and subsequent rejections of our leases reductions in consumer spending and retail sales reduced tenant demand for retail space oversupply of retail space reduced consumer demand for certain retail categories consolidation within the retail sector increased operating costs perceptions by retailers and shoppers of the safety, convenience and attractiveness of our properties and acts of terrorism and war, natural disasters and other physical and weather-related damages to our properties. to the extent that any of these conditions occur they are likely to impact the retail industry, our retail tenants, the demand and market rents for retail space, the occupancy levels of our properties, our ability to sell, acquire or develop properties, our operating results and our cash available for distributions to stock and unit holders. shifts in retail sales and delivery methods between brick and mortar stores, e-commerce, home delivery, and curbside pick-up may adversely impact our revenues and cash flows. retailers are increasingly impacted by e-commerce and changes in customer buying habits, including the delivery or curbside pick-up of items ordered online. retailers are considering these e-commerce trends when making decisions regarding their bricks and mortar stores and how they will compete and innovate in a rapidly changing retail environment. many retailers in our shopping centers provide services or sell goods, which have historically been less likely to be purchased online however, the continuing increase in e-commerce sales in all retail categories may cause retailers to adjust the size or number of retail locations in the future or close stores. our grocer tenants are incorporating e-commerce concepts through home delivery and curbside pick-up, which could reduce foot traffic at our centers. in certain higher-income markets, foot traffic at our centers may be impacted more by these alternative delivery methods if consumers are willing to pay premiums for such services. this shift may adversely impact our occupancy and rental rates, which would impact our revenues and cash flows. changes in shopping trends as a result of the growth in e-commerce may also impact the profitability of retailers that do not adapt to changes in market conditions. these conditions may adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows if we are unable to meet the needs of our tenants or if our tenants encounter financial difficulties as a result of changing market conditions. 6 changing economic and retail market conditions in geographic areas where our properties are concentrated may reduce our revenues and cash flow. economic conditions in markets where our properties are concentrated can greatly influence our financial performance. during the year ended december 31, 2019, our properties in california, florida, texas, new york and virginia accounted for 29.0%, 21.0%, 6.9%, 5.7%, and 5.0% respectively, of our noi from consolidated properties plus our pro-rata share from unconsolidated properties ( pro-rata basis ). our revenues and cash flow may be adversely affected by this geographic concentration if market conditions, such as supply of or demand for retail space, deteriorate more significantly in these states compared to other geographic areas. our success depends on the success and continued presence of our anchor tenants. anchor tenants (tenants occupying 10,000 square feet or more) occupy large stores in our shopping centers, pay a significant portion of the total rent at a property and contribute to the success of other tenants by attracting shoppers to the property. we derive significant revenues from anchor tenants such as publix, kroger co., albertsons companies, inc., tjx companies, inc., and whole foods who accounted for 3.2%, 3.0%, 2.8%, 2.4%, and 2.4%, respectively, of our total annualized base rent on a pro-rata basis, for the year ended december 31, 2019. additionally, other tenants with significant lease obligations at a singular location could also have a material impact on our earnings if they are unable to fulfill their lease obligations or fail to renew their leases. our net income and cash flow may be adversely affected by the loss of revenues and additional costs in the event a significant anchor tenant: becomes bankrupt or insolvent experiences a downturn in its business materially defaults on its leases does not renew its leases as they expire renews at lower rental rates and/or requires a tenant improvement allowance or renews but reduces its store size, which results in down-time and additional tenant improvement costs to the landlord to re-lease the vacated space. some anchors have the right to vacate their space and may prevent us from re-tenanting by continuing to comply and pay rent in accordance with their lease agreement. vacated anchor space, including space owned by the anchor, can reduce rental revenues generated by the shopping center in other spaces because of the loss of the departed anchor's customer drawing power. if a significant tenant vacates a property, co-tenancy clauses in select lease contracts may allow other tenants to modify or terminate their rent or lease obligations. co-tenancy clauses have several variants: they may allow a tenant to postpone a store opening if certain other tenants fail to open their stores they may allow a tenant to close its store prior to lease expiration if another tenant closes its store prior to lease expiration or more commonly, they may allow a tenant to pay reduced levels of rent until a certain number of tenants open their stores within the same shopping center. additionally, many of our shopping centers are anchored by retailers who own their space whose location is within or immediately adjacent to our shopping center ( shadow anchors ). in those cases, the shadow anchors appear to the consumer as a retail tenant of the shopping center and, as a result, attract additional consumer traffic to the center. in the event that a shadow anchor were to close, it could negatively impact our center as consumer traffic would likely be reduced. a significant percentage of our revenues are derived from smaller shop space tenants and our net income may be adversely impacted if our smaller shop tenants are not successful. shop space tenants (tenants occupying less than 10,000 square feet) may be more vulnerable to negative economic conditions as they have more limited resources than anchor tenants. shop space tenants may be facing reduced sales as a result of an increase in competition including from e-commerce retailers. the types of shop space tenants vary from retail shops and restaurants to service providers. if we are unable to attract the right type or mix of shop space tenants into our centers, our revenues and cash flow may be adversely impacted. at december 31, 2019, shop space tenants represent approximately 36.0% of our gla leased at average base rents of $34.86 per square foot ( psf ). a one-percent decline in our shop space occupancy may result in a reduction to base rent of approximately $5.0 million. we may be unable to collect balances due from tenants in bankruptcy. although lease income (including base rent and recoveries from tenants) are supported by long-term lease contracts, tenants who file for bankruptcy have the legal right to reject any or all of their leases and close related stores. any unsecured claim we hold against a 7 bankrupt tenant for unpaid rent might be paid only to the extent that funds are available and only in the same percentage as is paid to all other holders of unsecured claims. as a result, it is likely that we would recover substantially less than the full value of any unsecured claims we hold. additionally, we may incur significant expense to recover our claim and to re-lease the vacated space. in the event that a tenant with a significant number of leases in our shopping centers files for bankruptcy and rejects its leases, we may experience a significant reduction in our revenues and may not be able to collect all pre-petition amounts owed by the bankrupt tenant. risk factors related to real estate investments and operations we are subject to numerous laws and regulations that may adversely affect our operations or expose us to liability. our properties are subject to numerous federal, state, and local laws and regulations, some of which may conflict with one another or be subject to varying judicial or regulatory interpretations. these laws and regulations may include zoning laws, building codes, competition laws, rules and agreements, landlord-tenant laws, property tax regulations or changes in real estate assessments, including changes in laws related thereto, and other laws and regulations generally applicable to business operations. noncompliance with such laws and regulations, and any associated litigation may expose us to liability. our real estate assets may decline in value and be subject to impairment losses which may reduce our net income. our real estate properties are carried at cost unless circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. we evaluate whether there are any indicators, including property operating performance and general market conditions, such that the value of the real estate properties (including any related tangible or intangible assets or liabilities, including goodwill) may not be recoverable. through the evaluation, we compare the current carrying value of the asset to the estimated undiscounted cash flows that are directly associated with the use and ultimate disposition of the asset. our estimated cash flows are based on several key assumptions, including rental rates, costs of tenant improvements, leasing commissions, anticipated holding periods, and assumptions regarding the residual value upon disposition, including the exit capitalization rate. these key assumptions are subjective in nature and may differ materially from actual results. changes in our disposition strategy or changes in the marketplace may alter the holding period of an asset or asset group, which may result in an impairment loss and such loss may be material to the company's financial condition or operating performance. to the extent that the carrying value of the asset exceeds the estimated undiscounted cash flows, an impairment loss is recognized equal to the excess of carrying value over fair value. the fair value of real estate assets is subjective and is determined through the use of comparable sales information and other market data if available, or through use of an income approach such as the direct capitalization method or the discounted cash flow approach. such cash flow projections take into account expected future operating income, trends and prospects, as well as the effects of demand, competition and other relevant criteria, and therefore are subject to management judgment. changes in these factors may impact the determination of fair value. in estimating the fair value of undeveloped land, we generally use market data and comparable sales information. these subjective assessments have a direct impact on our net income because recording an impairment charge results in an immediate negative adjustment to net income, which may be material. there can be no assurance that we will not record impairment charges in the future related to our assets. we face risks associated with development, redevelopment and expansion of properties. we actively pursue opportunities for new retail development, or existing property redevelopment or expansion. development and redevelopment activities require various government and other approvals for entitlements and any delay in such approvals may significantly delay this process. we may not recover our investment in development or redevelopment projects for which approvals are not received. we are subject to other risks associated with these activities, including the following risks: we may be unable to lease developments or redevelopments to full occupancy on a timely basis the occupancy rates and rents of a completed project may not be sufficient to make the project profitable actual costs of a project may exceed original estimates, possibly making the project unprofitable delays in the development or construction process may increase our costs construction cost increases may reduce investment returns on development and redevelopment opportunities we may abandon development or redevelopment opportunities and lose our investment due to adverse market conditions 8 the size of our development and redevelopment pipeline may strain our labor or capital capacity to complete the development and redevelopment project within targeted timelines and may reduce our investment returns a reduction in the demand for new retail space may reduce our future development and redevelopment activities, which in turn may reduce our net operating income and changes in the level of future development and redevelopment activity may adversely impact our results from operations by reducing the amount of internal overhead costs that may be capitalized. we face risks associated with the development of mixed-use commercial properties. we are expanding our investment focus to include more complex acquisitions and mixed-use development and redevelopment projects in very dense urban locations, which pose unique risks to our return on investment. mixed-use projects refer to real estate projects that, in addition to retail space, may also include space for residential, office, hotel or other commercial purposes. we have less experience in developing and managing non-retail real estate than we do retail real estate. as a result, if a development or redevelopment project includes a non-retail use, we may seek to develop that component ourselves, sell the rights to that component to a third-party developer, or partner with a developer. if we decide to develop the non-retail components ourselves, we would be exposed not only to those risks typically associated with the development of commercial real estate, but also to risks associated with developing, owning, operating or selling non-retail real estate, including but not limited to more complex entitlement processes and multiple-story buildings. these unique risks may adversely impact our return on investment in these mixed-use development projects. if we sell the non-retail components, our retail component will be impacted by the decisions made by the other owners, and actions of those occupying the non-retail spaces in these mixed-use properties. if we partner with a developer, it makes us dependent upon the partner's ability to perform and to agree on major decisions that impact our investment returns of the project. in addition, there is a risk that the non-retail developer may default on its obligations necessitating that we complete the other components ourselves, including providing necessary financing. in addition, redevelopment of existing shopping centers into mixed-use projects generally includes tenant vacancies before and during the redevelopment, which could result in volatility in noi. we face risks associated with the acquisition of properties. our investment strategy includes investing in high-quality shopping centers that are leased to market-dominant grocers, category-leading anchors, specialty retailers, or restaurants located in areas with high barriers to entry and above average household incomes and population densities. the acquisition of properties and/or real estate entities entails risks that include, but are not limited to, the following, any of which may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows: properties we acquire may fail to achieve the occupancy or rental rates we project, within the time frames we estimate, which may result in the properties' failure to achieve the investment returns we project our investigation of an entity, property or building prior to our acquisition, and any representation we may have received from such seller, may fail to reveal various liabilities including defects, necessary repairs or environmental matters requiring corrective action, which may increase our costs our estimate of the costs to improve, reposition or redevelop a property may prove to be too low, or the time we estimate to complete the improvement, repositioning or redevelopment may be too short, either of which may result in the property failing to achieve our projected return, either temporarily or permanently we may not recover our costs from an unsuccessful acquisition our acquisition activities may distract or strain our management capacity and we may not be able to successfully integrate an acquisition into our existing operations platform. we face risks if we expand into new markets. if opportunities arise, we may acquire or develop properties in markets where we currently have no presence. each of the risks applicable to acquiring or developing properties in our current markets are applicable to acquiring, developing and integrating properties in new markets. in addition, we may not possess the same level of familiarity with the dynamics and conditions of the new markets we may enter, which may adversely affect our operating results and investment returns in those markets. 9 we may be unable to sell properties when desired because of market conditions. our properties, including their related tangible and intangible assets, represent the majority of our total consolidated assets and they may not be readily convertible to cash. as a result, our ability to sell one or more of our properties, including properties held in joint ventures, in response to changes in economic, industry, or other conditions may be limited. the real estate market is affected by many factors, such as general economic conditions, availability and terms of financing, interest rates and other factors, including supply and demand for space, that are beyond our control. there may be less demand for lower quality properties that we have identified for ultimate disposition in markets with uncertain economic or retail environments, and where buyers are more reliant on the availability of third party mortgage financing. if we want to sell a property, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to dispose of it in the desired time period or at all or that the sales price of a property will be attractive at the relevant time or even exceed the carrying value of our investment. moreover, if a property is mortgaged, we may not be able to obtain a release of the lien on that property without the payment of a substantial prepayment penalty, which may restrict our ability to dispose of the property, even though the sale might otherwise be desirable. certain properties we own have a low tax basis, which may result in a taxable gain on sale. we intend to utilize 1031 exchanges to mitigate taxable income however, there can be no assurance that we will identify properties that meet our investment objectives for acquisitions. in the event that we do not utilize 1031 exchanges, we may be required to distribute the gain proceeds to shareholders or pay income tax, which may reduce our cash flow available to fund our commitments. certain of the properties in our portfolio are subject to ground leases if we are unable to renew a ground lease, purchase the fee simple interest, or are found to be in breach of a ground lease, we may be adversely affected. we have 28 properties in our portfolio that are either partially or completely on land subject to ground leases with third parties. accordingly, we only own a long-term leasehold or similar interest in those properties. if we are unable to purchase a fee interest in the underlying land or extend the terms of these leases before or upon their expiration, as to which no assurance can be given, we will lose our interest in the improvements and the right to operate such properties. in addition, if we are found to be in breach of a ground lease, we may lose our interest in the improvements and the right to operate the property that is subject to the ground lease. the existing lease terms, including renewal options, were taken into consideration when making our investment decisions. the purchase price and subsequent improvements are being depreciated over the shorter of the remaining life of the ground leases or the useful life of the underlying assets. if we were to lose the right to operate a property due to not exercising renewal options of the ground lease or a breach, we would be unable to derive income from such property, which would impair the value of our investments, and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. climate change may adversely impact our properties directly and may lead to additional compliance obligations and costs as well as additional taxes and fees. to the extent climate change causes adverse changes in weather patterns, our properties in certain markets may experience increases in storm intensity and rising sea levels. climate change may result in volatile or decreased demand for retail space at certain of our properties or, in extreme cases, our inability to operate certain properties at all. climate change may also have indirect effects on our business by increasing the cost of insurance, or making insurance unavailable. moreover, compliance with new laws or regulations related to climate change, including compliance with green building codes, may require us to make improvements to our existing properties or pay additional taxes and fees assessed on us or our properties. although we strive to identify, analyze, and respond to the risk and opportunities that climate change presents, at this time, there can be no assurance that climate change will not have an adverse effect on us. geographic concentration of our properties makes our business more vulnerable to natural disasters, severe weather conditions and climate change. a significant number of our properties are located in areas that are susceptible to earthquakes, tropical storms, hurricanes, tornadoes, wildfires, sea-level rise, and other natural disasters. at december 31, 2019, 28% of the total insured value of our portfolio is located in the state of california, including a number of properties in the san francisco bay and los angeles areas. additionally, 18% and 7% of the total insured value of our portfolio is located in the states of florida and texas, respectively. recent intense weather conditions may cause property insurance premiums to increase significantly in the future. we recognize that the frequency and / or intensity of extreme weather events, sea-level rise, and other climatic changes may continue to increase, and as a result, our exposure to these events may increase. these weather conditions may disrupt our business and the business of our tenants, which may affect the ability of some tenants to pay rent and may reduce the willingness of tenants or residents to remain in or move to these affected areas. therefore, as a result of the geographic concentration of our properties, we face risks, including disruptions to our business and the businesses of our tenants and higher costs, such as uninsured property losses, higher insurance premiums, and potential additional regulatory requirements by government agencies in response to perceived risks. an uninsured loss or a loss that exceeds the insurance coverage on our properties may subject us to loss of capital and revenue on those properties. we carry comprehensive liability, fire, flood, terrorism, business interruption, and environmental insurance for our properties with policy specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties. some types of losses, such as losses from named windstorms, earthquakes, terrorism, or wars may have limited coverage or be excluded from insurance coverage. although we carry 10 specific insurance coverage for named windstorm and earthquake losses, the policies are subject to deductibles up to 2% to 5% of the total insured value of each property, up to a $10 million maximum deductible per occurrence for each of these perils, with limits of $300 million per occurrence for all perils except earthquake, which has a total annual aggregate limit of $300 million. terrorism coverage is limited to $200 million per occurrence related to property damage. liability claims are limited to $151 million per occurrence. should a loss occur at any of our properties that is subject to a substantial deductible or is in excess of the property or casualty insurance limits of our policies, we may lose part or all of our invested capital and revenues from such property, which may have a material adverse impact on our operating results, financial condition, and our ability to make distributions to stock and unit holders. terrorist activities or violence occurring at our properties also may directly affect the value of our properties through damage, destruction or loss. insurance for such acts may be unavailable or cost more resulting in an increase to our operating expenses and adversely affect our results of operations. to the extent that our tenants are affected by such attacks and threats of attacks, their businesses may be adversely affected, including their ability to continue to meet obligations under their existing leases. loss of our key personnel may adversely affect our business and operations. the success of our business depends, in part, on the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees, and our ability to attract, retain and motivate talented employees may significantly impact our future performance. competition for these individuals is intense, and we cannot be assured that we will retain all of our executive management team and other key employees or that we will be able to attract and retain other highly qualified individuals for these positions in the future. losing any one or more of these persons may have an adverse effect on us. we face competition from numerous sources, including other reits and other real estate owners. the ownership of shopping centers is highly fragmented. we face competition from other public reits, large private investors, institutional investors, and from numerous small owners in the acquisition, ownership, and leasing of shopping centers. we also compete to develop shopping centers with other reits engaged in development activities as well as with local, regional, and national real estate developers. this competition may: reduce the number of properties available for acquisition or development increase the cost of properties available for acquisition or development and hinder our ability to attract and retain tenants, leading to increased vacancy rates and/or reduced rents. if we cannot successfully compete in our targeted markets, our cash flow, and therefore distributions to stock and unit holders, may be adversely affected. costs of environmental remediation may reduce our cash flow available for distribution to stock and unit holders. under various federal, state, and local laws, an owner or manager of real property may be liable for the costs of removal or addressing the presence of hazardous substances on the property, generally arising from dry cleaners, gas stations, and historic land use practices. these laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of hazardous substances. the presence of, or the failure to properly address the presence of, hazardous substances may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease the property or borrow using the property as collateral. we can provide no assurance that we are aware of all potential environmental liabilities that any previous owner, occupant or tenant did not create any material environmental condition not known to us that our properties will not be affected by tenants or nearby properties or other unrelated third parties and that future uses or conditions, or changes in environmental laws and regulations will not result in additional material environmental liabilities to us. compliance with the americans with disabilities act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make unexpected expenditures. all of our properties are required to comply with the americans with disabilities act ( ada ), which generally requires that buildings be made accessible to people with disabilities. compliance with ada requirements may require removal of access barriers, and noncompliance may result in imposition of fines by the u.s. government or an award of damages to private litigants, or both. while the tenants to whom we lease space in our properties are obligated by law to comply with the ada provisions, and typically under tenant leases are obligated to cover costs associated with compliance, if required changes involve greater expenditures than anticipated, or if the changes must be made on a more accelerated basis than anticipated, the ability of these tenants to cover costs may be adversely affected. in addition, we are required to operate the properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations, as they may be adopted by governmental entities and become applicable to the properties. we may be required to make substantial capital expenditures to comply with these requirements, and these expenditures may have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our financial obligations and make distributions to our stock and unit holders. 11 the unauthorized access, use, theft or destruction of tenant or employee personal, financial or other data or of regency's proprietary or confidential information stored in our information systems or by third parties on our behalf could impact our reputation and brand and expose us to potential liability and loss of revenues. many of our information technology systems (including those we use for administration, accounting, and communications, as well as the systems of our co-investment partners and other third-party business partners and service providers, whether cloud-based or hosted in proprietary servers) contain personal, financial or other information that is entrusted to us by our tenants and employees. many of our information technology systems also contain our proprietary information and other confidential information related to our business. we are frequently subject to attempts to compromise our information technology systems. to the extent we or a third party were to experience a material breach of our or such third party's information technology systems that result in the unauthorized access, theft, use, destruction or other compromises of tenants' or employees' data or our confidential information stored in such systems, including through cyber-attacks or other external or internal methods, such a breach may damage our reputation and cause us to lose tenants and revenues, incur third party claims and cause disruption to our business and plans. such security breaches also could result in a violation of applicable u.s. privacy and other laws, and subject us to private consumer, business partner, or securities litigation and governmental investigations and proceedings, any of which could result in our exposure to material civil or criminal liability, and we may not be able to recover these expenses from our service providers, responsible parties, or insurance carriers. additionally, federal, state and local authorities continue to develop laws to address data privacy protection. monitoring such changes, and taking steps to comply, involves significant costs and effort by management, which may adversely affect our operating results and cash flows. the techniques and sophistication used to conduct cyber-attacks and breaches of information technology systems, as well as the sources and targets of these attacks, change frequently and are often not recognized until such attacks are launched or have been in place for a period of time. we manage cyber risk by evaluating the impact of a potential cyber breach on our business and determining the level of investment in the prevention, detection and response to a breach. we continue to make significant investments in technology, third-party services and personnel to develop and implement systems and processes that are designed to anticipate cyber-attacks and to prevent or minimize breaches of our information technology systems or data loss, but these security measures cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in preventing such breaches or data loss. despite the implementation of security measures for our disaster recovery and business continuity plans, our systems are vulnerable to damages from multiple sources, including computer viruses, unauthorized access, energy blackouts, natural disasters, terrorism, war, and telecommunication failure. any system failure or accident that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption to our business and cause us to incur additional costs to remedy such damages. risk factors related to our partnerships and joint ventures we do not have voting control over all of the properties owned in our co-investment partnerships and joint ventures, so we are unable to ensure that our objectives will be pursued. we have invested substantial capital as a partner in a number of partnerships and joint ventures to acquire, own, lease, develop or redevelop properties. these activities are subject to the same risks as our investments in our wholly-owned properties. these investments, and other future similar investments may involve risks that would not be present were a third party not involved, including the possibility that partners or other owners might become bankrupt, suffer a deterioration in their creditworthiness, or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. partners or other owners may have economic or other business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our own business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives. these investments, and other future similar investments, also have the potential risk of creating impasses on decisions, such as a sale or financing, because neither we nor our partner or other owner has full control over the partnership or joint venture. disputes between us and partners or other owners might result in litigation or arbitration that may increase our expenses and prevent management from focusing their time and efforts on our business. consequently, actions by, or disputes with, partners or other owners might result in subjecting properties owned by the partnership or joint venture to additional risk. in addition, we risk the possibility of being liable for the actions of our partners or other owners. these factors may limit the return that we receive from such investments or cause our cash flows to be lower than our estimates. the termination of our partnerships may adversely affect our cash flow, operating results, and our ability to make distributions to stock and unit holders. if partnerships owning a significant number of properties were dissolved for any reason, we could lose the asset, property management, leasing and construction management fees from these partnerships as well as the operating income of the properties, which may adversely affect our operating results and our cash available for distribution to stock and unit holders. certain of our partnership operating agreements provide either member the ability to elect buy/sell clauses. the election of these dissolution provisions could require us to invest additional capital to acquire the partners' interest or to sell our share of the property thereby losing the operating income and cash flow. 12 risk factors related to funding strategies and capital structure our ability to sell properties and fund acquisitions and developments may be adversely impacted by higher market capitalization rates and lower noi at our properties which may dilute earnings. as part of our funding strategy, we sell operating properties that no longer meet our investment standards or those with a limited future growth profile. these sales proceeds are used to fund debt repayment, acquisition of operating properties, and the construction of new developments and redevelopments. an increase in market capitalization rates or a decline in noi may cause a reduction in the value of centers identified for sale, which would have an adverse impact on the amount of cash generated. additionally, the sale of properties resulting in significant tax gains may require higher distributions to our stockholders or payment of additional income taxes in order to maintain our reit status. we may acquire properties or portfolios of properties through tax-deferred contribution transactions, which may result in stockholder dilution and limit our ability to sell such assets. we may acquire properties or portfolios of properties through tax deferred contribution transactions in exchange for partnership interests in our operating partnership, which may result in stockholder dilution. this acquisition structure may have the effect of, among other things, reducing the amount of tax depreciation we may deduct over the tax life of the acquired properties, and may require that we agree to protect the contributors' ability to defer recognition of taxable gain through restrictions on our ability to dispose of the acquired properties and/or the allocation of partnership debt to the contributors to maintain their tax bases. these restrictions may limit our ability to sell an asset at a time, or on terms, that would be favorable absent such restrictions. we depend on external sources of capital, which may not be available in the future on favorable terms or at all. to qualify as a reit, the parent company must, among other things, distribute to its stockholders each year at least 90% of its reit taxable income (excluding any net capital gains). because of these distribution requirements, we may not be able to fund all future capital needs with income from operations. in such instances, we would rely on third-party sources of capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. our access to third-party sources of capital depends on a number of things, including the market's perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings. our access to debt depends on our credit rating, the willingness of creditors to lend to us and conditions in the capital markets. in addition to finding creditors willing to lend to us, we are dependent upon our joint venture partners to contribute their pro rata share of any amount needed to repay or refinance existing debt when lenders reduce the amount of debt our partnerships and joint ventures are eligible to refinance. in addition, our existing debt arrangements also impose covenants that limit our flexibility in obtaining other financing. additional equity offerings may result in substantial dilution of stockholders' interests and additional debt financing may substantially increase our degree of leverage. without access to external sources of capital, we would be required to pay outstanding debt with our operating cash flows and proceeds from property sales. our operating cash flows may not be sufficient to pay our outstanding debt as it comes due and real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly at a return we believe is appropriate. if we are required to deleverage our business with operating cash flows and proceeds from property sales, we may be forced to reduce the amount of, or eliminate altogether, our distributions to stock and unit holders or refrain from making investments in our business. our debt financing may adversely affect our business and financial condition. our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our indebtedness will depend primarily on our future performance, which to a certain extent is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. in addition, we do not expect to generate sufficient operating cash flow to make balloon principal payments on our debt when due. if we are unable to refinance our debt on acceptable terms, we may be forced (i) to dispose of properties, which might result in losses, or (ii) to obtain financing at unfavorable terms, either of which may reduce the cash flow available for distributions to stock and unit holders. if we cannot make required mortgage payments, the mortgagee may foreclose on the property securing the mortgage. covenants in our debt agreements may restrict our operating activities and adversely affect our financial condition. our unsecured notes, unsecured term loans, and unsecured line of credit contain customary covenants, including compliance with financial ratios, such as ratio of indebtedness to total asset value and fixed charge coverage ratio. these covenants may limit our operational flexibility and our investment activities. moreover, if we breach any of the covenants in our debt agreements, and do not cure the breach within the applicable cure period, our lenders may require us to repay the debt immediately, even in the absence of a payment default. many of our debt arrangements, including our unsecured notes, unsecured term loan, and unsecured line of credit are cross-defaulted, which means that the lenders under those debt arrangements can require immediate repayment of their debt if we breach and fail to cure a default under certain of our other material debt obligations. as a result, any default under our debt 13 covenants may have an adverse effect on our financial condition, our results of operations, our ability to meet our obligations, and the market value of our stock. increases in interest rates would cause our borrowing costs to rise and negatively impact our results of operations. although a significant amount of our outstanding debt has fixed interest rates, we do borrow funds at variable interest rates under our credit facility and term loan. as of december 31, 2019, 6.5% of our outstanding debt was variable rate debt not hedged to fixed. increases in interest rates would increase our interest expense on any variable rate debt to the extent we have not hedged our exposure to changes in interest rates. in addition, increases in interest rates will affect the terms under which we refinance our existing debt as it matures, to the extent we have not hedged our exposure to changes in interest rates. this would reduce our future earnings and cash flows, which may adversely affect our ability to service our debt and meet our other obligations and also may reduce the amount we are able to distribute to our stock and unit holders. hedging activity may expose us to risks, including the risks that a counterparty will not perform and that the hedge will not yield the economic benefits we anticipate, which may adversely affect us. we manage our exposure to interest rate volatility by using interest rate hedging arrangements. these arrangements involve risk, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, and that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes. there can be no assurance that our hedging arrangements will qualify for hedge accounting or that our hedging activities will have the desired beneficial impact on our results of operations. should we desire to terminate a hedging arrangement, there may be significant costs and cash requirements involved to fulfill our obligations under the hedging arrangement. in addition, failure to effectively hedge against interest rate changes may adversely affect our results of operations. the interest rates on our unsecured credit facilities as well as on our variable rate mortgages and interest rate swaps might change based on changes to the method in which libor or its replacement rate is determined. in july 2017, the financial conduct authority ( fca ) that regulates libor announced it intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of libor after 2021. as a result, the federal reserve board and the federal reserve bank of new york organized the alternative reference rates committee ( arrc ) which identified the secured overnight financing rate ( sofr ) as its preferred alternative to usd-libor in derivatives and other financial contracts. we are not able to predict when libor will cease to be available or when there will be sufficient liquidity in the sofr markets. any changes adopted by fca or other governing bodies in the method used for determining libor may result in a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in reported libor. if that were to occur, our interest payments could change. in addition, uncertainty about the extent and manner of future changes may result in interest rates and/or payments that are higher or lower than if libor were to remain available in its current form. we have contracts that are indexed to libor, including our $1.25 billion unsecured revolving credit facility, $265 million term loan, and fifteen mortgages within our consolidated and unconsolidated portfolio totaling $225.5 million on a pro-rata basis, as well as interest rate swaps to fix these variable cash flows with notional amounts totaling $442.0 million on a pro-rata basis. these libor based instruments mature between 2020 and 2028. we are monitoring and evaluating the related risks, which include interest on loans or amounts received and paid on derivative instruments. these risks arise in connection with transitioning contracts to a new alternative rate, including any resulting value transfer that may occur. the value of loans, securities, or derivative instruments tied to libor could also be impacted if libor is limited or discontinued. for some instruments, the method of transitioning to an alternative rate may be challenging, as they may require negotiation with the respective counterparty. if a contract is not transitioned to an alternative rate and libor is discontinued, the impact is likely to vary by contract. if libor is discontinued or if the methods of calculating libor change from their current form, interest rates on our current or future indebtedness and related interest rate swaps may be adversely affected. while we expect libor to be available in substantially its current form until the end of 2021, it is possible that libor will become unavailable prior to that point. this could result, for example, if sufficient banks decline to make submissions to the libor administrator. in that case, the risks associated with the transition to an alternative reference rate will be accelerated and magnified. 14 risk factors related to our company and the market price for our securities changes in economic and market conditions may adversely affect the market price of our securities. the market price of our debt and equity securities may fluctuate significantly in response to many factors, many of which are out of our control, including: actual or anticipated variations in our operating results changes in our funds from operations or earnings estimates publication of research reports about us or the real estate industry in general and recommendations by financial analysts or actions taken by rating agencies with respect to our securities or those of other reits the ability of our tenants to pay rent and meet their other obligations to us under current lease terms and our ability to re-lease space as leases expire increases in market interest rates that drive purchasers of our stock to demand a higher dividend yield changes in market valuations of similar companies adverse market reaction to any additional debt we incur in the future any future issuances of equity securities additions or departures of key management personnel strategic actions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions or restructurings actions by institutional stockholders reports by corporate governance rating companies increased investor focus on sustainability-related risks, including climate change changes in our dividend payments potential tax law changes on reits speculation in the press or investment community and general market and economic conditions. these factors may cause the market price of our securities to decline, regardless of our financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects. it is impossible to ensure that the market price of our securities, including our common stock, will not fall in the future. a decrease in the market price of our common stock may reduce our ability to raise additional equity in the public markets. selling common stock at a decreased market price would have a dilutive impact on existing stockholders. there is no assurance that we will continue to pay dividends at historical rates. our ability to continue to pay dividends at historical rates or to increase our dividend rate will depend on a number of factors, including, among others, the following: our financial condition and results of future operations the terms of our loan covenants and our ability to acquire, finance, develop or redevelop and lease additional properties at attractive rates. if we do not maintain or periodically increase the dividend on our common stock, it may have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and other securities. 15 enhanced focus on corporate responsibility and sustainability , specifically related to environmenta l, social and governance matters , may impose additional costs and expose us to new risks. we, as well as increasing numbers of investors, are focused on corporate responsibility and sustainability, specifically related to environmental, social and governance matters ( esg ). some investors may use these matters to guide their investment strategies. third-party providers of corporate responsibility ratings and reports on companies have increased to meet growing investor demand for measurement of corporate responsibility performance. although we have generally scored highly in these metrics to date, there can be no assurance that we will continue to score highly in the future. in addition, the criteria by which companies are rated may change, which could cause us to receive lower scores than in the past. we may face reputational damage in the event our corporate responsibility and sustainability procedures or standards do not meet the standards set by various constituencies. furthermore, should our competitors outperform us in such metrics, potential or current investors may elect to invest with our competition instead. the occurrence of any of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on the price of our shares and our business, financial condition and results of operations, including increased capital expenditures and/or increased operating expenses. risk factors related to laws and regulations if the parent company fails to qualify as a reit for federal income tax purposes, it would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. we believe that the parent company qualifies for taxation as a reit for federal income tax purposes, and we plan to operate so that we can continue to meet the requirements for taxation as a reit. if the parent company continues to qualify as a reit, it generally will not be subject to federal income tax on income that we distribute to our stockholders. many reit requirements, however, are highly technical and complex. the determination that the parent company is a reit requires an analysis of various factual matters and circumstances, some of which may not be totally within our control and some of which involve questions of interpretation. for example, to qualify as a reit, at least 95% of our gross income must come from specific passive sources, like rent, that are itemized in the reit tax laws. there can be no assurance that the internal revenue service ( irs ) or a court would agree with the positions we have taken in interpreting the reit requirements. we are also required to distribute to our stockholders at least 90% of our reit taxable income, excluding net capital gains. we will be subject to u.s. federal income tax on our undistributed taxable income and net capital gain and to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on any amount by which distributions we pay with respect to any calendar year are less than the sum of 85% of our ordinary income, 95% of our capital gain net income and 100% of our undistributed income from prior years. the fact that we hold many of our assets through co-investment partnerships and their subsidiaries further complicates the application of the reit requirements. furthermore, congress and the irs might make changes to the tax laws and regulations, and the courts might issue new rulings, that make it more difficult for the parent company to remain qualified as a reit. also, unless the irs granted relief under certain statutory provisions, the parent company would remain disqualified as a reit for four years following the year it first failed to qualify. if the parent company failed to qualify as a reit (currently and/or with respect to any tax years for which the statute of limitations has not expired), we would have to pay significant income taxes, reducing cash available to pay dividends, which would likely have a significant adverse effect on the value of our securities. in addition, we would no longer be required to pay any dividends to stockholders in order to maintain our reit status. although we believe that the parent company qualifies as a reit, we cannot be assured that the parent company will continue to qualify or remain qualified as a reit for tax purposes. even if the parent company qualifies as a reit for federal income tax purposes, we are required to pay certain federal, state, and local taxes on our income and property. for example, if we have net income from prohibited transactions, that income will be subject to a 100% tax. in general, prohibited transactions include sales or other dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. the determination as to whether a particular sale is a prohibited transaction depends on the facts and circumstances related to that sale. while we have undertaken a significant number of asset sales in recent years, we do not believe that those sales should be considered prohibited transactions, but there can be no assurance that the irs would not contend otherwise. new legislation, as well as new regulations, administrative interpretations, or court decisions may be introduced, enacted, or promulgated from time to time, that may change the tax laws or interpretations of the tax laws regarding qualification as a reit, or the federal income tax consequences of that qualification, in a manner that is adverse to our stockholders. recent changes to the u.s. tax laws may have a significant negative impact on the overall economy, our tenants, our investors, and our business. the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 made significant changes to the internal revenue code of 1986, as amended (the code ). while the changes in the tax cuts and jobs act generally appear to be favorable with respect to reits, the extensive changes to non-reit provisions in the code may have unanticipated effects on us or our stockholders, including our taxable income, the amount of distributions to our stockholders required in order to maintain our reit status, and our relative tax advantage as a reit. the long-term impact of the tax cuts and jobs act on the overall economy, government revenues, our tenants, us, and the real estate industry cannot be reliably predicted at this stage of the new law's implementation. furthermore, the tax cuts and jobs act may negatively impact certain of our tenants' operating results, financial condition, and future business plans. the tax cuts and jobs act may also 16 result in reduced government revenues, and therefore reduced government spending, which may negatively impact some of our tenants that rely on government funding. there can be no assurance that the tax cuts and jobs act will not adversely impact our operating results, financial condition, and future business operations. dividends paid by reits generally do not qualify for reduced tax rates. subject to limited exceptions, dividends paid by reits (other than distributions designated as capital gain dividends, qualified dividends or returns of capital) are not eligible for reduced rates for qualified dividends paid by c corporations and are taxable at ordinary income tax rates. the more favorable tax rates applicable to regular corporate qualified dividends may cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in reits to be relatively less attractive than investments in the stocks of non-reit corporations that pay dividends, which may adversely affect the value of the shares of reits, including the shares of our capital stock. under the recently passed tax cuts and jobs act, the rate brackets for non-corporate taxpayer's ordinary income are adjusted, the top tax rate is reduced from 39.6% to 37% (excluding the 3.8% medicare tax on net investment income), and ordinary reit dividends are taxed at even lower effective rates. under the tax cuts and jobs act, for taxable years beginning after december 31, 2017, and before january 1, 2026, distributions from reits that are treated as dividends but are not designated as qualified dividends or capital gain dividends are generally taxed as ordinary income after deducting 20% of the amount of the dividend in the case of non-corporate stockholders. at the maximum ordinary income tax rate of 37% applicable for taxable years beginning after december 31, 2017, and before january 1, 2026, the maximum tax rate on ordinary reit dividends for non-corporate stockholders is generally 29.6% (plus the 3.8% medicare tax on net investment income). certain foreign stockholders may be subject to u.s. federal income tax on gain recognized on a disposition of our common stock if we do not qualify as a domestically controlled reit. a foreign person disposing of a u.s. real property interest, including shares of a u.s. corporation whose assets consist principally of u.s. real property interests is generally subject to u.s. federal income tax on any gain recognized on the disposition. this tax does not apply, however, to the disposition of stock in a reit if the reit is domestically controlled. in general, we will be a domestically controlled reit if at all times during the five-year period ending on the applicable stockholder's disposition of our stock, less than 50% in value of our stock was held directly or indirectly by non-u.s. persons. if we were to fail to qualify as a domestically controlled reit, gain recognized by a foreign stockholder on a disposition of our common stock would be subject to u.s. federal income tax unless our common stock was traded on an established securities market and the foreign stockholder did not at any time during a specified testing period directly or indirectly own more than 10% of our outstanding common stock. legislative or other actions affecting reits may have a negative effect on us. the rules dealing with federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process and by the irs and the u.s. department of the treasury. changes to the tax laws, with or without retroactive application, may adversely affect regency or our investors. we cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect regency or our investors. new legislation, treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions may significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify as a reit or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification, or the federal income tax consequences of an investment in us. also, the law relating to the tax treatment of other entities, or an investment in other entities, may change, making an investment in such other entities more attractive relative to an investment in a reit. complying with reit requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and may cause us to incur tax liabilities. the reit provisions of the code limit our ability to hedge our liabilities. generally, income from a hedging transaction that constitutes qualifying income for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests applicable to reits, does not constitute gross income for purposes of the 75% or 95% gross income tests, provided that we properly identify the hedging transaction pursuant to the applicable sections of the code and treasury regulations. to the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, or fail to make the proper tax identifications, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as non-qualifying income for purposes of both gross income tests. as a result of these rules, we may need to limit our use of otherwise advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through a taxable reit subsidiary ( trs ). restrictions on the ownership of the parent company's capital stock to preserve its reit status may delay or prevent a change in control. ownership of more than 7% by value of our outstanding capital stock is prohibited, with certain exceptions, by the parent company's articles of incorporation, for the purpose of maintaining its qualification as a reit. this 7% limitation may discourage a change in control and may also (i) deter tender offers for our capital stock, which offers may be attractive to our stockholders, or (ii) limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their capital stock that might otherwise exist if an investor attempted to assemble a block in excess of 7% of our outstanding capital stock or to affect a change in control. 17 the issuance of the parent company's capital stock may delay or prevent a change in control. the parent company's articles of incorporation authorize our board of directors to issue up to 30,000,000 shares of preferred stock and 10,000,000 shares of special common stock and to establish the preferences and rights of any shares issued. the issuance of preferred stock or special common stock may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. the provisions of the florida business corporation act regarding affiliated transactions may also deter potential acquisitions by preventing the acquiring party from consummating a merger or other extraordinary corporate transaction without the approval of our disinterested stockholders. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to two significant components of interest rate risk: we have a line commitment, as further described in note 9 to the consolidated financial statements, which has a variable interest rate that is based upon an annual rate of libor plus 0.875%. libor rates charged on our line change monthly and the spread on the line is dependent upon maintaining specific credit ratings. if our credit ratings are downgraded, the spread on the line would increase, resulting in higher interest costs. the interest rate spread based on our credit rating ranges from libor plus 0.700% to libor plus 1.550%. we are also exposed to changes in interest rates when we refinance our existing long-term fixed rate debt. the objective of our interest rate risk management program is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash flows. to achieve these objectives, we borrow primarily at fixed interest rates and may enter into derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps, or treasury locks in order to mitigate our interest rate risk on a related financial instrument. we do not enter into derivative or interest rate transactions for speculative purposes. our interest rate swaps are structured solely for the purpose of interest rate protection. we continuously monitor the capital markets and evaluate our ability to issue new debt, to repay maturing debt, or fund our commitments. based upon the current capital markets, our credit ratings, our capacity under our unsecured credit facilities, and the number of high quality, unencumbered properties that we own which could collateralize borrowings, we expect that we will be able to successfully issue new secured or unsecured debt to fund maturing debt obligations. our interest rate risk is monitored using a variety of techniques. the table below presents the principal cash flows, weighted average interest rates of remaining debt, and the fair value of total debt as of december 31, 2019. for variable rate mortgages and unsecured credit facilities for which we have interest rate swaps in place to fix the interest rate, they are included in the fixed rate debt section below at their all-in fixed rate. the table is presented by year of expected maturity to evaluate the expected cash flows and sensitivity to interest rate changes. although the average interest rate for variable rate debt is included in the table, those rates represent rates that existed as of december 31, 2019, and are subject to change on a monthly basis. in addition, the company continually assesses the market risk for its floating rate debt and believes that a 1% increase in interest rates would decrease future earnings and cash flows by approximately $2.6 million per year based on $35.1 million of floating rate mortgage debt and $220.0 million of floating rate line of credit balance outstanding at december 31, 2019. if the company increases its line of credit balance in the future, additional decreases to future earnings and cash flows could occur. further, the table below incorporates only those exposures that exist as of december 31, 2019, and does not consider exposures or positions that could arise after that date. since firm commitments are not presented, the table has limited predictive value. as a result, our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to interest rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise during the period, our hedging strategies at that time, and actual interest rates. the table below presents the principal cash flow payments associated with our outstanding debt by year, weighted average interest rates on debt outstanding at each year-end, and fair value of total debt as of december 31, 2019. (dollars in thousands) 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 thereafter total fair value fixed rate debt (1) $ 50,360 50,599 582,645 69,498 346,043 2,592,015 3,691,160 3,920,909 average interest rate for all fixed rate debt (2) 3.74 % 3.72 % 3.85 % 3.86 % 3.87 % 3.87 % variable rate libor debt (1) $ 35,100 220,000 255,100 257,191 average interest rate for all variable rate debt (2) 3.17 % 3.14 % % % % % % ( 1 ) reflects amount of debt maturities during each of the years presented as of december 31, 2019. ( 2 ) reflects weighted average interest rates of debt outstanding at the end of each year presented. for variable rate debt, the benchmark interest rate (libor), as of december 31, 2019, was used to determine the average rate for all future periods. 57